Ministry of Human Resource Development
Government of India
For further details please
visit our website:
For queries please email us at:
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Government of India
An MHRD Initiative
Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi
5th November 2015
IMPRINT - INDIA
The logo for IMPRINT depicted by a stylised visual of peacock, the National Bird of India, a symbol of the very
essence of Indian philosophy and ethos. Peacock symbolises multiple notions in India - grace, beauty, prosperity
and plurality of our culture and tradition.
Five wings on each side indicate the ten domains of research with different shades of colours signifying the myriads
of subjects that IMPRINT is concerned with. Wings further implies aspiration and dynamism essential for any
change. The symmetry and balance in the spread of wings is commensurate with the complementary relationship
among research, innovation and technology. The logo truly depicts the spirit of IMPRINT - its objectives, mission
Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani
Minister of Human Resource Development
Government of India
Increasingly, the economic and social development of a Nation is being
dictated by the innovations in technology and science. Innovation
presupposes strong foundations of scientific research. Whereas research
has been the basis on which the knowledge base of IITs has been built
over time, there is an imperative need to make the research focused on the needs
With these objectives in view, we have launched several new schemes like
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan, Uchchatar Avishkar
Yojna, Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and
Teaching, Swayam, Global Initiative for Academic Network, and many more.
One that stands head and shoulders above all these is the IMPRINT.
IMPacting Research INnovation and Technology (IMPRINT) provides
that overarching vision that guides research into areas that are predominantly
IMPRINT is scheduled to be launched by the Honourable President and
Prime Minister of India on November 5, 2015 at the Rashtrapati Bhavan during
the Visitor's Conference in presence of Directors and Chairpersons from all
major science and technological educational institutions of the country (IITs,
IISc, IISER, NITs, IIEST, etc) funded by Ministry of HRD.
IMPRINT is a first of its kind MHRD funded Pan-IIT and IISc joint initiative aimed
at giving a Research Roadmap to address major engineering and technology challenges in
ten selected domains relevant to our country's needs. These domains encapsulate the
drive for inclusive growth and self-reliance. The first phase of IMPRINT is dedicated to
creating a policy document defining the scope, strategy and mandate for pursuing
engineering challenges in the country. The real engineering pursuit will ensue in the
The IMPRINT has been evolved through several stages and intense deliberation at
various forums. The idea originated in the RETREAT with the Directors and
Chairpersons of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) in Goa on June 28-29, 2014. If
science searches for the fundamental truth, engineering must apply the scientific
principles to provide viable solutions to all the problems and challenges faced by the
society. And who better than the most celebrated engineering institutions in the country
can do this? Subsequently, His Excellency Shri Pranab Mukherjee, the Honourable
President of India, in his capacity as the Visitor to IITs, convened a Visitor's Conference
at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on August 22, 2014 with all the Directors and Chairpersons of
the IITs in which the 'Ten Technology Domains and Goals' have been outlined.
Engineering education and innovation must address problems and aspirations of the
society and hence must bear a nation-specific character. Hence, the MHRD requested the
top engineering institutions of the country to create a special initiative and address the
engineering challenges faced by the fellow Indians. IIT Kanpur was designated as the
national coordinator to lead the team IMPRINT-India comprising all IITs and IISc.
Besides defining the ten technology domains as engineering challenges or goalposts,
deliberations in the last few months have helped to identify the coordinating and
participating institutes with the concerned coordinators and team members to develop
specific programmes for each domain.
Recently, a joint symposium on 'Engineering Education in the 21st Century' held in
New Delhi on 16-17 October, 2015 along with Indian National Academy of Engineering
(New Delhi) and National Academy of Engineering (USA). While the domains under
IMPRINT bear large overlap with the fourteen Grand Challenges defined by the NAE-
USA, the scope and mandate of IMPRINT is much wider, much inclusive and more tuned
to our country for obvious reasons. Each technology domain of IMPRINT along with the
underlying themes, targets and topics embedded in them represent the immediate goals
before the nation for engineering innovation and intervention.
Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore commented 'The highest education is that which does
not merely give us information but makes our life in HARMONY with all EXISTENCE'.
IMPRINT is an opportunity before the engineering fraternity of the country to integrate
with the society by creating conducive environment for spreading innovative thinking in
the educational institutions and providing viable engineering solutions, and thereby
establishing the harmony that Gurudev once dreamed and prophesied.
INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY
IMPRINT   - INDIA
A Flagship Initiative of MHRD
Since time immemorial, necessity and
aspiration has always driven mankind to
discover, invent or innovate through
individual or collective effort. The history of
human civilization is replete with examples of how
mankind has derived inspiration and learned from
nature to overcome various challenges and meet the
basic necessities of food-shelter-survival during the
stone-age to begin with, and gradually progressed by
leaps and bounds to reach the modern age of
security and amenities over many centuries and
millennia. Undoubtedly this phenomenal
development has materialized through firm
determination and urge to unravel and seek the
truth, learn the art and implement them in practice.
Realization of translation of knowledge to useful
practices has always been a slow process through
decades and centuries, occasionally aided by
disruptive paradigm changes brought through
unexpected discovery or laboured invention, but
eventually integrating them all with humanity,
converging for societal benefits. Myopic views would
brand these pursuits as isolated scientific,
engineering or technological interventions, but
needless to mention that every such endeavour,
individual or collective, emerge seamlessly from
certain justified motivation and eventually
amalgamate into a greater cause – the needs of the
humanity. In the modern era, innovative
technological developments that originate from
societal demands and make far reaching impact to
humanity warrant far more sound foundation in
scientific principles and ethical values than before,
and hence, pose a much bigger challenge to
formulate a strategy and roadmap to attain the
The Science-Engineering -
If science is all about 'know-why' (fundamental
knowledge), then engineering provides the principles
('know-how') to convert scientific knowledge into
practicable solutions and overcome challenges while
technology (know-what sells) makes such
development commercially viable and sustainable.
Thus, science discovers and unravels the nature
through curiosity driven act or necessity inspired
effort, engineering invents and replicates by
applying the fundamental laws and principles.
Technology ultimately innovates new practices to
translate a selected few of such discoveries and
inventions into useful products and processes
because the society needs, demands and consumes.
While scientific knowledge is universal, engineering
and technology often originate from local needs and
aspiration. Thus science-engineering-technology-
society nexus is a continuous and complementary
cycle and the backbone of the eco-system through
which humanity thrives and progresses.
In the years to come, engineering and technology
will pivotally be called upon to address and resolve
issues of sustainability and growth ranging
concerning energy, habitat, resources, environment
and transportation. Our country is large and
diverse. Although saints of ancient India like Kanad
(600 BC) or Aryabhatta (550 AD) gave the clues on
anu/paramanu (molecule/atom) and decimal system
(concept of zero) to the world, India has yielded that
vantage position of scientific leadership.
We may demographically be a young nation, but at
the same time an old civilisation with a heritage,
and a legacy of innovative thought and action, of
leadership in diverse fields. To usher in a
technologically self reliant India a pragmatic and
structured approach is needed, in particular to
provide the quality engineering education and
infrastructure necessary to pursue world class
research and innovation for sustainable and
While learning is a continuous process spanning
over the entire lifetime, cumulative knowledge
grows by stages from the elementary data,
information or practices to the ultimate wisdom
through a painstaking process supported by
dedication, patience, discipline and persistence. The
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD)
is now committed to create and implement an
education policy, presently being inclusively and
participatively evolved to transform the nation, and
cater to the needs and aspirations of our citizens and
Adopting engineering and technology as the vehicle
to addressing the societal needs and achieving
national prosperity, MHRD has drafted a new and
catalytic scheme called IMPacting Research
INnovation and Technology or IMPRINT.
IMPRINT is a first-of-its-kind Pan-IIT and IISc joint
initiative to develop a (a) New Education Policy, and
(b) Roadmap for Research to solve major
engineering and technology challenges in selected
domains needed by the country.
The ten domains represent the most important
areas relevant to our country in order to enable,
empower and embolden the nation for inclusive
growth and self-reliance. The first phase of
IMPRINT is dedicated to creating a policy document
defining the scope, strategy and mandate for
pursuing engineering challenges in the country and
not developing a specific technological product or
process. The real engineering pursuit will ensue in
the second phase.
Each technology domain of IMPRINT along with the
underlying themes, targets and topics embedded in
them represent the immediate goals before the
nation for engineering innovation and intervention.
However, the principal motto remains the same for
each domain: (a) to create an education policy for
inculcating scientific temperament and innovation
skill, and (b) to develop the research roadmap for
technology preparedness. Competent manpower and
robust strategy is a sure recipe to success.
Since IMPRINT is a national programme, initially
steered by the IITs and IISc, ultimately the entire
engineering fraternity of the nation including IITs,
NITs, national academies, governmental ministries
and departments, research organizations, strategic
sectors, policy agencies and industry must join
hands and own the collective responsibility. Given
the proper commitment, no task can prove
The Domains and Coordinators of IMPRINT, steered
by IIT Kanpur (as the national coordinator), are:
Healthcare: IIT Kharagpur
Information and Communication Technology:
(iii) Energy: IIT Bombay
Sustainable Habitat:  IIT Roorkee
Nano-technology Hardware: IIT Bombay
v Identify and select themes of national
(vi) Water Resources and River systems: IIT
(vii) Advanced Materials: IIT Kanpur
(viii) Manufacturing: IIT Madras
Security and Defence: IIT Madras
Environmental Science and Climate Change:
Each domain in IMPRINT is divided into themes,
sub-themes, target and topics for educational
orientation, research and innovation. In order to
create and sustain an inclusive eco-system in
must pursue new knowledge, research organization
should innovate and industry ought to absorb both
knowledge and innovation to develop new technology
to produce goods and services that would be both
competitive and add value to ultimately serve the
society and the nation. Before embarking on actual
technology development, IMPRINT is designed first
to map the strength and weakness in our system,
define the goals, identify logical course and create a
roadmap to champion the engineering targets.
The Honourable Prime Minister of India has always
held the view that research shall be socially
relevant. The higher educational institutions shall
not remain islands of knowledge, untouched by the
society around. Based on this idea, an initial brain
storming deliberation was held in the RETREAT
between the Human Resource Minister and
leadership (Directors and Chairpersons) of the
Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) in Goa on
June 28-29, 2014. Intense discussion led to the
resolution that India today should aspire to be a
knowledge and innovation driven economy for
employment generation and prosperity, and IITs and
industries should join hands to solve the national
challenges. Innovative research and new technology
development through industry-academia partnership
may pursue the following course of action:
importance and challenge for technology
development through MEGA research project
which can provide complete system engineering
solution and generate large scale employment
v Key to approach such objective is to forge
formidable and effective partnership between
industry and academia with mutual trust and
v Identify domains and themes, hold wide
discussion, define the scope/objective, select the
partners to make a team, and pronounce the
deliverables with clear roadmap and timeframe
v IITs must continue to pursue high-risk
fundamental research of academic interest, but
allow to create an eco-system that will enable
the industry depend on academia for technology
solutions, and even seek advice / guidance for
v Closer interaction between IITs and Industry
will promote entrepreneurship
As a way forward, it was decided to:
v Hold thematic workshop in a relevant industry
with selected invitees from IITs to define the
scope, objectives, roadmap, timeframe and
v Develop a joint project proposal for funding from
industry and government
v Develop a team drawn both from industry and
IITs with specific work elements / targets to be
handled by a specific team (of students / faculty
v Create an independent monitoring team and
mechanism for periodic assessment of progress
as per milestones and approve next phase of
v The process ahead must be simple and urgent so
that industry does not lose its patience and
It may be noted that the domains under IMPRINT
bear large overlap with the fourteen Grand
Challenges defined by the NAE-USA. However, the
scope and mandate of IMPRINT is much wider and
more tuned to this country for obvious reasons.
IMPRINT in its first phase is a policy developing
initiative covering pedagogy, teaching, curriculum,
technology-benchmarking and infrastructure
readiness. IMPRINT is not meant only for IITs and
IISc; it is a national movement providing an
opportunity for the higher echelon institutes in
India to integrate with all grass root level institutes,
industry and organizations, mutually complement
and deliver what the country demands and aspires.
Policy is our immediate mandate; technology
(products and processes) development and delivery
will eventually follow.
The Visitor's Conference 2014
His Excellency Shri Pranab Mukherjee, the
Honourable President of India, in his capacity as the
Visitor to the IITs convened a Conference at the
Rashtrapati Bhavan on August 22, 2014 with the
Chairpersons and Directors of all the IITs. Both the
Honourable President and Prime Minister addressed
and urged the leaders to pursue excellence. While
the Honourable President desired that IITs must
rank among the top institutions in the world, the
Honourable Prime Minister stressed upon greater
need for optimum utilization of resources including
young students and scholars for pursuing the
engineering challenges relevant to India. Following
presentations from each IIT, the afternoon was
devoted to deliberations on specific themes. One of
the themes presented and very intensely discussed
in this conference was 'Ten Technology Domains and
Goals' that outlined the major engineering
challenges faced by the country. It unanimously
emerged that engineering practices should provide
solutions to the problems and challenges faced by
the society and hence must carry both a global as
well as local (nation-specific) charter.
Interaction with NAE-USA
In December 2014, a delegation from Indian
National Academy of Engineering (INAE) visited
Washington DC to interact with the National
Academy of Engineering (NAE), USA to deliberate
on the theme 'Engineering Education in the 21st
Century'. The focus was on the 14 Grand Challenges
defined and championed by NAE. The important
outcome of this two-day event was: (a) Technology
challenges are interdisciplinary, need based and
seamless in nature, (b) Pursuing
engineering/technology challenges can create
healthy interest and motivate engineering students
in India to make useful contributions, and (c) Efforts
must percolate or begin from the grass root or school
level by way of visit to the schools and colleges and
mentoring students through projects and summer
Subsequent discussion within the IIT community
suggested that the engineering challenges in India
must address issues like security (homeland/cyber),
healthcare (rural, urban, diagnostics, water,
sanitation), agriculture (productivity, storage,
sensors), pedagogy (self/mass education), and energy
(conventional, renewable including environment
protection). India should aim to produce 10000 PhDs
in these engineering domains in next 10 years. NAE-
INAE collaboration may promote such initiative.
Such a national program for five year with a
national coordinator should be supported by DST.
As a reciprocal exercise, a joint symposium on
'Engineering Education in the 21st Century' was
held in New Delhi on 16-17 October, 2015 under the
aegis of the MHRD, Indian National Academy of
Engineering (New Delhi) and National Academy of
Engineering (USA). While the domains under
IMPRINT bear large overlap with the fourteen
Grand Challenges defined by the NAE-USA, the
scope and mandate of IMPRINT is much wider and
more tuned to this country for obvious reasons. Each
technology domain of IMPRINT along with the
underlying themes, targets and topics embedded in
them represent the immediate goals before the
nation for engineering innovation and intervention.
The IMPRINT Activities
MHRD issued a memo in April 2015 asking the top
engineering institutions of the country to create a
special initiative and address the engineering
challenges focused on India. IIT Kanpur was
designated as the national coordinator to lead the
team IMPRINT-India comprising all IITs and IISc.
As the main coordinator, IIT Kanpur organized the
kick off workshop to apprise the community and
launch this initiative on May 11, 2015 (Engineers'
Day). In order to pursue the twin mandates of
IMPRINT (education policy and research roadmap),
ten technology domains as engineering challenges or
goalposts have been defined, coordinating and
participating institutes with coordinators and
participating scientists have been identified, and
specific programmes are being developed. The
second meeting of the theme/domain leaders was
held through video conference on 15th July 2015 to
provide suitable direction and instructions. The next
workshop held at IIT Delhi on Aug 16, 2015 resolved
that the first phase of IMPRINT should define the
'gap' between the available and desired level of
manpower, technology and infrastructure in the
selected domains so that the strategy, timeframe,
roadmap and budget to pursue technological self
reliance and leadership can be formulated in due
course. Several rounds of follow up meetings over
video or by actual gathering (on 15 Jul, 2 Aug, 1 Oct,
2015) allowed further deliberation and identification
of Domain Coordinators and Members, selection of
Institute Representatives, defining the scope, format
and contents for the website, information booklet,
launching of a national essay and logo contest, etc.
Several domains organized their internal workshops
with their own domain members to identify the
themes, sub-themes, targets and topics.
On Oct 16-17, 2015, a joint INAE-MHRD-NAE
symposium on 'Engineering Education in the 21st
Century' was held in the India International Centre,
New Delhi. Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani, the honourable
Human Resource Minister inaugurated and
addressed the gathering as the Chief Guest. The
symposium was attended by all the domain
coordinators and some team members of IMPRINT
along with a delegation from NAE-USA led by
Professor CD Mote Jr, former President, University
of Berkley and President, NAE-USA. The
symposium was also addressed by the Secretary
DST and Additional Secretary (HE), MHRD. The
deliberations from the NAE centred on Grand
Challenges, while each Coordinator of IMPRINT
presented the scope, objective and mandate of
IMPRINT, particularly the interventions desired
with regard to engineering education and
infrastructure readiness in their respective domains.
World Health Organization (WHO) statistics shows
that India has made considerable progress over
recent years in attaining Millennium Development
Goals. However, its relative ranking among nations
continues to remain poor. The challenges faced
are many as well as complex, in ensuring
healthcare is accessible, affordable and
appropriate for all concerned. There is a need in
developing technology based solutions, using
traditional knowledge, and emphasizing on disease
avoidance to reduce overall disease burden. The
IMPRINT-India Healthcare road map building
exercise, centers around educational and research
perspectives on the concepts of healthy living,
prevention, diagnosis, treatment, after-care,
management, legal issues and innovation
AND HEALTHY LIVING
Health literacy is required through school curricula for
adoption of a healthy lifestyle from childhood that includes
tackling substances that may be harmful, and giving stress
on personal hygiene, sanitation, avoidance of road-injuries
etc. Health literacy is directly related to health outcomes
for both individuals and health systems, and has
significant impact on healthcare costs. According to WHO,
about 80% of cardiovascular disease and diabetes, and at
least 40% of cancers are preventable by changing lifestyle.
The focus of this theme is disease avoidance, rather than
PREVENTION AND PRIMARY,
It involves an integrated team of primary healthcare
professionals, social workers, nurses, pharmacists,
dietitian, community based outreach workers like
Anganwadi, ANM, ASHA, and community engagement
specially, among vulnerable population like women, child
and people from rural and underprivileged background. It
requires measurement, monitoring and intervention that
can be easily accessed by our population. This is to ensure
that health problems, if any, are addressed early, before
they become serious health issues.
Diagnostic imaging involves pathological and radiological
image-guided medical decision making for disease
diagnosis and prognosis. They include X-rays, CT scans,
Nuclear medicine scans, MRI scans, Ultrasound,
Microscopic imaging etc. These are among the most
trusted aid to the physicians in today's healthcare. Majority
of the diagnostic imaging procedures are expensive and
mostly inaccessible in rural areas. The focus here is to
provide innovative and cost-effective medical imaging
technologies and medical software solutions.
AND EMBEDDED SYSTEMS
Wearable healthcare devices are useful in monitoring
pathophysiological parameters of an individual such as
blood pressure, pulse rate, SpO , perfusion rate, activity
profile. It consists of small physiological sensor,
transmission modules and processing capabilities. Medical
embedded system integrated with Computer-Aided
Diagnosis (CAD) is useful in automated decision making,
visualization and extraction of hidden complex features
useful for disease screening and monitoring. This includes
innovations around portable/ table-top devices for
monitoring vital health parameters.
Conventional diagnostic practices are time consuming,
labor-intensive; require elaborate infrastructures and on-
field pathologists. The development of portable,
inexpensive point-of-care (POC) diagnostic devices has the
potential to be a useful platform for easy and spot
diagnostics, without necessitating expensive
infrastructures, expert personnel. POC devices also offer
rapid and affordable diagnostics for mass population, at
their convenience. It includes rapid test of blood, urine,
electrocardiogram, heart rate, oxygen saturation etc.
The advancement in Information and Communication
Technology (ICT) in today's world not only connects,
educates and empowers people but also ushers in services
like e-Health, m-Health, e-ICU, Telemedicine, Virtual
learning platform, Simulator Design, Health Grid, Health
Data Exchange, Healthcare Data Analytics etc. ICT has an
impact on many aspects of health care services in
developed and developing countries. The most important
are accessibility to healthcare services by citizens,
economical aspect and, quality of care aspect, anywhere
DESIGN AND DELIVERY
The focus of this theme is on the discovery, design and
delivery of novel therapeutics as remedial agents. This will
encompass recent techniques of drug design and delivery
strategies that will be strengthened by novel methods and
materials and, consider interfaces between nanotechnology
and life processes. The other aim here is on targeted
delivery to improve efficiency of treatment and reduce side
effects. The long term goal is to find newer targets and
molecules to provide novel effective drugs based on
specific biological targets.
Regenerative Medicine has major emphasis on
rehabilitation of mankind suffering from various life
threatening diseases, trauma and degenerative diseases.
Besides early diagnosis of lost tissue function,
development of transient bioactive scaffold/ template,
disease specific novel therapeutic agents and delivery
vehicles, synthetic tissue construct, xenogenic /allogenic
decellularized or cellularized organ transplantation, stem
cells therapy are the cutting edge therapeutic approaches.
This is seen as an important area of interdisciplinary
research in modern healthcare.
The hospital system is at the center of the tertiary,
secondary and specialized healthcare system that includes
emergency, intensive care, trauma, surgery, pre and post-
operative care and allied diagnostics. The operating costs
are dominated by manpower, consumables and overheads
that include cost of equipments. The strategy to reduce
operating cost includes minimally invasive procedures and
research activities in this field include robotics, navigation
systems, simulators, maps, smart materials, biomechanics,
implants, prosthesis as well as analytics and effective
An ancient country like India has its own traditional
knowledge in Healthcare, and harnesses knowledge from
other places like Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani,
Siddha and Homeopathy. The best of traditional and
modern healthcare practices together can deliver a
balanced Healthcare ecosystem. The benefit of traditional
medicine in healthcare had the longest testing time since
Athrbaveda. Their usefulness has and natural availability
has made these medicines reachable to mass. The focus here
will be on validation and formulation as required in the
investigation of current era.
Reducing infectious diseases like HIV, AIDS, Dengue
Malaria, Typhoid, Hepatitis, Jaundice, Leptospirosis,
Diarrhoeal Diseases, Amoebiasis, Cholera, Brucellosis,
Hookworm Infection, Leishmaniasis, Influenza, Filariasis,
Tuberculosis, nosocomial infections etc. need focused
attention to develop advanced techniques in their early
detection, treatment, containment. In population with low
and middle income and in a country like India,
communicable diseases are very dominant and are one of the
major causes of mortality and morbidity.
Non-communicable diseases are the leading cause of death
in the world and also accounts for majority of deaths in
India. Treatment cost is almost double for these long
duration diseases as compared to other conditions and
illnesses. The increase in non-communicable disease
burden in India, such as cardiovascular diseases, respiratory
diseases, cancer, diabetes, renal failures, neurological
disorders etc. need pooling of target-oriented solutions from
different heads to prevent and control these diseases and
their risk factors.
A significant section of our community have disabilities
due to diseases, congenital, age or other factors, and
require special healthcare assistances. They and people
suffering in chronic diseases for years, are required to
manage their healthcare at home or within their
community. Targeted solution development is required in
this area to make them as much independent as possible,
without the need of visiting health centres on a regular
basis which could be inconvenient and costly. Such
patient-centric care can be found useful by other kind of
India today imports most of its medical devices which
often is not affordable for majority of our population. In
addition, there are many unique problems specific to the
country and end-user requirements which are often not a
priority of other nations wherefrom we import technology.
There is a felt-need to accelerate the process by which
inventions from Indian laboratories reach product stage
and complete the innovation cycle. It needs developing
proper interface for scientists, engineers, physicians and
healthcare industry to come together and make 'Make-in-
India' happen in Healthcare domain.
AND LEGAL ISSUES
Though individuals are more of custodians and concerned
of their own health and less of a consumer or a litigant,
ethical and legal issues related to healthcare services are
on the rise. This is more in a managed care scenario where
insurance products and for-profit healthcare services are
present. In addition, electronic health record,
interoperability, data privacy have their own concerns.
Management aspects in healthcare e.g. referral process
from primary healthcare centres to tertiary healthcare
centres are seen as important issues in ensuring timely
and appropriate services.
ICT & CS pervades almost all walks of life,
including education, health-care, environment-
management, water-resource management, to
mention a few. The first task of information
technology is to gather information omnipresent in
different forms and languages, through sensing of
data such as biological data, data pertaining to
environment, education, heritage, land usage and
cognitive information about users. Such
information gathered from diverse field situations,
has to be communicated to distant servers through
secured, reliable and fast communication
channels, followed by different types of processing
and analytics. To carry out large scale and fast
computations and in-place embedded-real-time
computations, novel indigenous computational
infrastructures are necessary. The IMPRINT
program aims to identify the gaps and the "things
to be done" in India to make India self reliant in
Special Web Browsing Interface for People with
A major challenge to any information processing task is
acquiring the information, which presents itself in different
forms, including physical signals, biological signals, voice,
text, image, video and even emotions. Accordingly
different means of collecting and often inferring such data
in the face of noisy and uncertain environment is required.
Accordingly, the following sub-themes have been
considered for Data Acquisition and Processing.
SENSORS, BIO-SENSORS & MEMS
Having access to indigenous sensors and actuators is of
utmost importance to the process of data acquisition.
Hence new ventures to develop different types of sensors
and MEMS are called for. These include biomedical
sensors for health care applications, chemical sensors for
detection of hazardous contaminations, moisture sensor,
image and video sensor etc. The sensors need to be rugged
for use in extreme environment and of easy to use type.
MULTIMODAL AND MULTILINGUAL DATA:
(TEXT, VIDEO, AUDIO)
Data and information is replete in the textual messages
and social network exchanges, voice communication as
well as video communication. In the Indian context, such
information is also multilingual making it imperative to
develop technology to properly acquire the information
from such varied spectrum of data.
Multimedia Data (Text, Video, Audio)
ISLV & smetsyS deddebmE
Encryption & Security
M & s
Speech and L
The four thematic layers of computational and
communication components shown in the
figure is being briefly dwelt upon now.
Keyboard, mouse and monitors being no longer the only
means computer interaction, it is needed to natural
interfaces for communication through touch, gestures,
icons and signs. Interface design in these respects is of
utmost importance, specially keeping in view the
physically challenged users and the aged population.
The data and information acquired from distant, critical
and difficult to access areas need to be transmitted to the
computing sites in a reliable and secure manner.
Bandwidth being at a premium, efficient use of bandwidth
as well as speed of communication is of vital importance,
in addition to reliability and security. Consequently,
research thrust should be increased in:
DATA COMMUNICATION AND NETWORKS
Over the years, data communication has gained a lot of
importance due to its application in the areas of sensors
and mobile nodes in addition to its usual role in computer-
to-computer communication. Efficient communication
between sensor to sensor and between mobile nodes is
vital for energy and security related issues. Routing and
aggregation of data also needs to be improved for optimal
use of power, which in most cases is a non-renewable
resource or is very difficult to replace.
SPECTRALLY EFFICIENT COMMUNICATION
Generation and transmission of huge data demands
spectrally efficient communication techniques to deal with
growing demand of bandwidth. As has been established
through research by various leading groups, Optical
Angular Momentum (OAM) beam is capable of providing
huge bandwidth as it creates orthogonal channels for
multiplexing of multiple beams.
Security and reliability in data and information
transmission is one of the key requirements. High security
in data and information communication can be realized by
infusion of principles of quantum mechanics and
The whole domain of wireless technology works on the
basis of smart as well as efficient frontends, antennas, and
sensors. Several new challenges need to be addressed in
view of making the devices more compact, more efficient,
and compatible to wideband or ultrawideband systems,
especially for secured/military applications.
There are few specific areas in communication engineering
which need high quality human resources in the country;
but unfortunately, resource of knowledge is very very
limited. Therefore, for the sake of alleviating such lacunae,
a special effort is needed in the areas of 'Applied and
Computational Electromagnetics” in the form of special
training by international experts and thus by creating a
Data received at the computation end needs to be
processed to crystal out the semantics of the data and
calls for data and text analytics. Moreover, unlike the
earlier days, the forthcoming systems will have to be user-
centric and hence users have to be understood and their
features and preferences should be integrated within the
computation framework. Accordingly, the following sub-
themes have been identified.
Identification of hidden objects is a major challenge in
homeland security applications. THz technology facilitates
creation of high resolution images of hidden objects and
detection of remote threats.
DATA AND TEXT ANALYTICS
This component is a vital component in extracting the real
information, trends and hidden facts from the plethora of
data and text available in different form and languages.
In order to provide effective education support or health
advisories for example, it is necessary to understand the
user, her personal preferences, cognitive abilities and
emotional patterns among other things. The area of
cognitive computing will employ intelligent and adaptive
models of the user in an integration with the decision
SPEECH AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING
Automatic speech recognition, text to speech synthesis,
language translation, question-answering systems, answer
evaluation systems etc. all depend heavily on speech and
language technology research, and is critically called for in
multilingual digital India.
IMAGE AND VIDEO PROCESSING
Vast information available in the form of images and
videos are powerful resources that may be exploited
through automated processing for knowledge creation,
storage and dissemination. Advanced research in this area
will enable digital preservation of historical monuments,
creation of digital knowledge bank in the form of e-books
(research on Optical Character Recognition will take a vital
role), Homeland Security through research on video
surveillance, biometric authentication, advanced
image/video coding techniques for efficient use of limited
resources and many others.
Preservation of the heritage in the country, its languages,
dialects, art forms, architectural wonders, social and
ethnic practices can be preserved and saved from the
onslaught of 'modernization' through the intervention of
ICT in the form of undertaking activities in the digital
The actual computation will be carried out on servers and
systems enabled to carry out fast and distributed
computation, done in real time, with reliability and
predictability and the results should be available in a
secured manner in the face of digital intrusions. To this
end, research in the following sub components need to be
further vamped up.
POWER AWARE DESIGN OF EMBEDDED SYSTEMS
To result in area effective, portable, low power consuming,
omnipresent computing devices research in embedded
systems and indigenous development of VLSI chips are
VERIFIABLE AND RELIABLE SYSTEMS
Since the systems will be omnipresent, it is necessary to
ensure reliability and safety and consequently 'correct' and
'safe' systems should be designed, that should be
verifiable at the design time.
ENCRYPTION AND SECURITY
The computation infrastructure and the transfer of data
and information must be protected from intrusions and
data privacy is becoming all the more important in the
present era. Hence, both theoretical and practical research
in encryption and security (through hardware and software
means) need to be geared up.
Energy is a critical input for India's development.
Energy shortages and affordable energy access are
major challenges facing India. Innovations in
conventional energy supply systems (coal, oil,
natural gas), energy efficiency and renewables are
essential for India's growth. The IMPRINT Energy
initiative plans to create a roadmap to enhance
the competiveness of Indian industry in the energy
sector by collaborative research, design and
development, devise grand challenges for
multidisciplinary research missions and enable
disruptive technologies. The IMPRINT Energy
theme will also articulate the needs for capacity
building and manpower development for India's
energy sector. India has the potential to achieve
leadership in the Energy sector. Our goal is to
create a framework to enable this.
The energy sector needs new skills, significant analysis
and innovation. There is a need for re-training and
upgrading the skill sets of existing energy sector personnel.
Inter-disciplinary approaches and new curriculum / courses
are needed to cater to technology development, system
integration, diffusion of energy technologies. A spectrum of
different courses and programme offerings involving
engineering, science, economics and policy analysis needs
to be drawn up.
CONVENTIONAL ENERGY SOURCES
Since their discovery, fossil fuels due to their ease of
availability and utilization have been, and still are, the
major source of primary energy. However, the energy
security of India is challenged because of, for example (I)
non-availability of high-quality coal, (ii) low reserves of oil
and natural gas, and (iii) scarcity of fuel-grade Uranium.
Industry-Government-Academia RD&D effort needed
towards tackling these problems. The adverse
environmental impact of fossil fuels leads to local
pollution, health impacts and global warming and climate
change. In order to meet the challenge of climate change
there is a need for efficiency in extraction and conversion
of fossil fuels and developing cost effective carbon capture
India's energy sector is mainly dependent on coal. Indian
coal is high ash and low Sulphur and offers significant
(1) Clean Coal Technology (2) Carbon Capture and
Title: Supercritical Boiler Design; Advanced coal cycles –
IGCC; pre-combustion capture; oxy-fuel combustion
OIL & NATURAL GAS
Oil and Natural Gas are critical from an energy security
viewpoint. Optimal utilization of the limited oil and gas
reserves, exploration of unconventional oil and gas reserves
and efficient upstream and downstream processing
technologies are important from an energy security
the tropical location of and distributed nature of renewable
sources, India is in a position to utilize these resources for
the overall development of the country. The mature,
reliable, and cost-effective technologies in this group
would still need a triple helix RD&D thrust as well as
development of skilled manpower. Also, several
technologies need fundamental, breakthrough research for
cost effective solutions.
(1) Efficient processing, (2) Enhanced Oil recovery,
(3) Unconventional resources
(1) System Optimization, (2) Collector & Receiver
Design, (3) Testing
Low water fracking technology; Innovative drilling
and discovery technology; Coal Bed Methane; Underground
India has demonstrated indigenous capability in nuclear
power plant technology. The challenge is to bring down
costs, improve safety and have technologies for nuclear
(1) Inherently Safe Nuclear Reactors, (2) Advanced
Thorium Power plants
Reliability; Thermal Hydraulics; Nuclear Waste
The exhaustible nature of fossil fuels, coupled with the
need for energy security of the nation and the climate
change problem necessitates research and development in
clean, green, renewable energy technologies (Solar PV,
Solar thermal, Wind, Hydro, Biomass& Biofuels). Due to
Application for process heat; Tracking heliostat;
Optimization of heliostat field; Design of central tower
receiver; Single tube receiver for LFR; Evacuated tube
collectors; Cost effective Parabolic Trough System; High
temperature selective coatings; System reliability
Significant cost reductions have resulted in solar PV
becoming almost cost effective. The challenges are to
ensure the competiveness of Indian cell and module
manufacturing. so that India is not dependent on cell and
(1) Module reliability & performance (2) High
efficiency, indigenous Si solar cells, (3) Technologies
based on new materials for thin film solar cells (4)
Fast, efficient, in-field diagnostics; Indigenous Si
solar cell manufacturing; Materials and technology for
flexible solar cells. Emphasis on competitiveness of
indigenous PV manufacturing: Cost effective foundations
BIOMASS / BIOFUELS
India has significant resources of agricultural residues,
plant and animal wastes, fuelwood distributed across the
country. Biomass technology offers the potential of local
employment and is almost cost effective. There are several
indigenous success stories, but widespread diffusion,
standardisation has been a challenge.
(1) Efficient Gasification, (2) Pyrolysis, (3)
Combustion, (4) Algal Biomass
Efficient Process Development; Scale-up; Water
management; Catalyst Development, Yield optimization,
Liquid hydrocarbon transportation fuels (Green gasoline,
diesel and jet fuel), Platform chemicals (eg. HMF, furfural
WIND / HYDRO
(1) Turbines for low wind speeds, (2) Offshore
Wind,(3) Low head hydro turbines
Vertical Axis Wind Turbines; Tidal stream Generators;
To reduce peak shortage and to avoid the mismatch
between energy supply and demand. Research &
technology development and demonstration of cost
effective short term and long term storage systems is of
utmost importance. This is likely to be more important
with higher share of renewable energy in power systems
and for vehicles and low power devices.
(1) Large Scale Energy Storage, (2) Electric
transportation, (3) Recyclability
Safer/reliable batteries; Solid state batteries;
Materials for next gen storage
ENERGY SYSTEMS & EFFICIENCY
There is a need for the development of efficient energy
systems. Options like, energy efficient appliances, demand
side management, smart energy distribution systems, in
addition to better and implementable energy policy can
significantly reduce the energy demand and thereby help
in overall economic development.
(1) Compressed air, (2) Pumped hydro, (3) Flywheel
Pump as turbine; Efficient compressors
(1) High storage capacity and kinetics, (2) Low T
adsorption/desorption, (3) High cycle life
Materials; Structural, chemical, and mechanical
modifications; Integrated storage systems
THERMAL ENERGY STORAGE
(1) Latent Heat storage (2) Sensible Heat Storage
Hydrogen based infrastructure development
Photochemical and Biological Hydrogen production
processes; Solid State Hydrogen Storage Materials; High
pressure hydrogen gas storage cylinders; Hydrogen
pipeline; Hydrogen refilling stations; Hydrogen gas engine
development; Fuel cells
(1) Demand response implementation, (2)
Low cost communication; Market mechanisms;
Stable microgrid operation technology
(1) Fuel cells for transportation, (2) IT-SOFC for
CO tolerance; Electrolyte material for intermediate
(1) Efficient appliances, (2) Industrial energy
conservation (3) Product and process redesign
Benchmarking; Smart appliances; Alternate
(1) Passive architecture, (2) Zero-energy building
and Energy Positive Housing (3) Novel materials
Title: Windows/envelope materials; Integrated design;
Efficient lighting, Simulation/Optimization
(1) High toque density motor design for Indian roads
(2)Flexible energy management and propulsion system
design (3) Low cost electric vehicle design
IMPRINT ENERGY STRATEGY
A network of faculty members led by IIT and IISc faculty
will draw up a roadmap for energy education and research
for India. This will involve short term technology
development and applied research in areas of relevance to
Indian industry to enhance India's capability and
competitivemess in energy areas: medium term mission
mode collaborative projects and grand challenges and long
term blue sky research. All these initiatives would need
enabling and innovative funding and support structures
and review mechanisms.
India is at the threshold of a major shift in the way
human habitation is perceived. By the end of
2030, 250 million new urbanites are expected to
join in Indian cities. The agglomeration will
certainly provide increased economic impetus but
poses significant social and environmental threat.
Places of India's habitation are already struggling
with poverty, slum, informality, pollution, and
resource degradation. Any significant
transformation from status quo needs swift yet
sustainable solution to extend a decent quality of
life to every Indian citizen. In order to achieve the
coveted livability in our habitat, the domain has
envisaged an integrated and multidisciplinary
approach. The output of this exercise will be
disseminated as an education policy and
framework to achieve quality education and
research on sustainable habitat in India.
Habitat, particularly urban habitat, is the epicentre of
global economic growth and subsequent energy
requirement. With increased economic and industrial
activity, average global CO  emission is growing at 1.3% per
year. Respite from this grave situation is not seemingly
possible in the immediate future with the primacy in
geopolitical consideration. With the business as usual,
global cities which emits largest share of CO , will rise in its
share of CO  emission from 71% in 2006 to 76% in 2030.
This amount of energy and resource usage is not only due
to increasing economic activity and behavioural changes,
but also due to the current spatial planning of cities.
Organisation of human habitat, both urban and rural,
should not only imply design at a meta-level of cities and
rural clusters, but also at smaller levels like
neighbourhoods and communities. There is no gainsaying
that human habitat needs energy and resources to survive
and sustain its living standard, economic and social
pursuits. It is known that proper habitat design has a direct
impact on energy and resource consumption. But absence
of awareness creates a situation where most approaches to
sustainability concentrate on idealized energy rating
systems of measurable components, such as buildings,
building components and consumer goods. While it is
important, such measures are on track to reduce total
energy consumption by just 1-2%. And yet assembly of
these hi-tech gadgets invariably increase carbon footprint, a
dimension neglected in measuring energy efficiency. Energy
performance at the habitat scale is often overlooked due to
its complexity in modelling with available predictive
models. But it is evident that optimization of energy
consumption and maintenance of environmental balance is
not possible without achieving the goal of sustainable
Sustainability in its true sense does not only concentrate on
maintaining the current environmental position, the popular
perception. It also calls for socio-economic stability and
prosperity. Economic growth affects socio-economic
development but not entirely. Spatial reflection of socio-
economic growth needs to be harnessed properly. Spatial
networking between different economic factors reduce
transaction costs and enhance superior economic output.
Networking and ease of accessibility also enhances social
connection to enhance societal development. Location and
growth of human habitation and its complex relationship
with its environment requires innovative design.
In general, habitat in India struggles with compound
problems. In the past we have planned and design many
habitats, including the newly developed urban habitats like
Noida, Gurgaon, and Raipur and so on. All the newly
designed habitats are struggling with various issues arising
from poorly conceived habitat design, based on Western
thoughts, while ignoring the ethos of Indian habitat design.
Knowledge and developing human resources in habitat
design are of utmost importance in today's emerging India.
The objective of this study is to create a policy paper on
delivering quality human resource with capable knowledge
to transform Indian habitat through home-grown solutions
within the constraints of our social, economic,
administrative and political structure.
Our approach is to visualise habitat not only from the
perspective of space but also its deep ecological and
emotional values attached with spaces. Development
doesn't always refer to be oblivion of the past and embrace
the glittering present, but to harness the past in sustaining
built environment in the present and the future.
Sustainable habitat is the single most influencing factor
which outlines a society's aspiration for living a
Habitat policies are government's response in
understanding problems, perceived approach towards the
remedies, and visualise future development of the society.
Future habitat can only be sustainable and inclusive if we
can replace the traditional ways of visualising policy
merely with economic cost benefit outcome. This
traditional capitalist approach often neglects superior
ethical dimensions of equality and justice. Capitalist sector
often restricts itself in GNP growth numbers and end up
creating gigantic economic centres like metropolises.
Increasing “metropolitanisation” in the globe is a direct
manifestation of this lopsided economic aspiration, which
is affecting imbalance in regional distribution and
accelerating greater urban rural division. Already 53 urban
agglomerations in India have a population of more than a
million and it hosts almost 43 per cent urban population.
Excessive concentration of economic benefits in urban
region is invariably leading towards migration from rural
hinterlands to urban core. Furthermore, rural regions in the
neighbourhood of urban areas are becoming peri-urban
areas. Thus, a continuous sprawling of edge-less cities is
happening more than ever before.
A recent discussion organized by IIT Roorkee touched on a
variety of issues and concerns regarding sustainable
habitat. Discussions or government policy today
compartmentalises habitat into either urban or rural
ecosystem. The linkages between these two ecosystems
and its interdependence are neglected both by the western
and eastern scholars. The first workshop foresees the
domain's approach both from top down and bottom up.
Once we can create quality of life to be the benchmark to
evaluate human development, all such spatial divisions
between rural and urban become obsolete. Of course, this
will require a paradigm shift in the thinking process about
sustainable habitat design.
It is evident that no single discipline can integrate the
aspirations set out in our approach to education and
research policy of Sustainable Habitat for India. It is also
evident that “once size fits all” policy cannot work given
the diversity in social and cultural ethos across the
country. There is a necessity to create benchmarks that
would identify sustainable development of habitat. The
benchmarks need to be validated based on “people-level”
discussions. Therefore, the education and research policy
needs to emphasise equal priority to practice and
application of research on the “ground-level” (Figure 1).
Sustainable Habitat in India
Figure 1: Way forward for IMPRINT Sustainable Habitat
So far we have identified eleven themes, although the
cross-links between the themes are evident and need to be
Architecture & Built
ii. Urban Planning &
iii. Physical Infrastructure;
iv. Social Infrastructure;
v. Water & Sanitation;
viii. Energy &
x. Housing and
ARCHITECTURE & BUILT FORMS
Architecture & built form are the fundamental unit of all
built environment. It includes various sub-themes such as
archaeology of human habitation, contemporary
architecture, space making in architecture and energy
studies in architecture.
URBAN PLANNING & DESIGN
Urban planning & design help in integrating human
habitation with physical, social, economic and virtual
functions. The relevance sub-themes instigated during
initial discussion are; planning for old towns & new towns,
urban space design, conservation & heritage, city image
and local area planning, urban regeneration & smart
Physical infrastructure serves to provide basic minimum
requirement for survival and maintenance of health and
hygiene for society to flourish. In addition to the traditional
infrastructure, the domain introduces regional
infrastructure covering urban and rural areas,
infrastructure efficiency, and smart infrastructure.
Education, health, culture, religion and society form the
basis of social infrastructure. The domain will concentrate
on social infrastructure and its role in space making.
WATER & SANITATION
This subject was initially conceived as a part of physical
infrastructure theme. But recognizing its extreme
importance among Indian citizens, it has been decided to
create an independent theme for water & sanitation. Sub-
themes like potable water supply, waste water treatment,
sanitation, public hygiene will be discussed under this
Transportation consist one of the major domain for
sustainable habitat. It enables movement and has
implications in economy, environment and societal
development. Transportation planning & traffic
engineering, transportation policy & economics,
environment, non-motorised transit, and smart transit
system are the most prominent inclusion in sub-themes.
Habitat planning is spatial manifestation of socio-
economic development of any country. Therefore,
com.br /wp-content/ uploads/2015/
understanding economic issues are very important for
habitat planning and its sustainability. Subjects like
regional economics, formal & informal economy, equity,
cluster and networking, innovation and creative economy
are significant part of this theme.
ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT
Energy and environment are grouped together as a theme
for deliberation under sustainable habitat domain. Human
activities are completely dependent on energy and its
affordable supply. Environment which is the mother of our
very existence needs special care to continue our
existence. Increasingly human beings are threatened with
energy security and various consequences due to
environmental degradation. Sustainability, pollution, urban
greening, heat island, are the major sub-themes to be
Effective legal and administrative framework extends the
benefit and addresses various concerns in an effective
manner. Physical, social and economic benefits can only
be distributed effectively in a society if existence of an
effective governing system is already functioning. People's
participation, smart governance, complexity between
different governance hierarchies will be deliberated within
More than 80% of built environment belongs to housing
and human habitation. Physical, social, governance and
economic aspects related to housing needs emphatic
attention, particularly in the extent of government policy
like 'Housing for all 2022'. Affordable housing, informal
settlement and slum, real estate, materials & construction
method, durable housing, temporary housing are some of
the sub-themes include in housing.
Increase in intensity of natural disaster of various forms in
this globe, resilience has become an important issue.
Resilience is an innovative idea which discusses about
flexibility, adaptation and knowledge to survive during
disaster and harness knowledge of post disaster physical,
economic and social development.
All these themes have strong direct and indirect
consequences both vertically and horizontally in this
matrix. Housing has strong linkage with transportation and
infrastructure which in turn has strong linkage with
economy, environment and energy. These mutual linkages
are undeniable within the domain of sustainable habitat. It
creates more insight to opt for “experiential model” in
education and research. Education in sustainability and
habitat are more focused on indoor teaching and learning
of models and then validate the model based hypothesis
with outdoor samples. The approach is restricting in true
understanding of human habitat of different genre.
Education and research policy may not be open ended. As
policy designers, we will work out mechanism to foresee
the possible consequences of the policy implementation.
Identification of themes, sub-themes, titles and topics
would provide the foundation to identify all the necessary
instruments in great detail which influence habitat. It
won't be surprising if we find out that many of these topics
eventually need multidisciplinary team to solve the real life
problem. The future education and research to provide
effective solution may well lie with interdisciplinary
approach rather focusing to solve the immediate problem.
This greater interdependence among the themes is already
instigating ideas of creating institutions which offer
multiple disciplines instead focuses on isolated discipline.
Strong communication and collaboration among these
discipline is also needs to be ensured.
Policy scientists often criticise policy designers for
narrowly focused means end rationality of policy analysis.
We assimilate this criticism and will work on to come up
with specific strategy which would gratify the spirit of
policy. One such measure would be to introduce specific
policy measurement methods. Proposed policies will not
be floated freely without any evaluation matrix.
Sustainable Habitat domain will establish a pragmatic
index to measure the progress of the proposed education
and research policy. It may have both short term and long
term measurement options to provide government enough
opportunity to measure the gravity of the situation. The
policy will be flexible enough to enable modifications
depending on short term feedback to make it more
effective in long term.
India ranks third in the world in terms of research
publications and second in terms of patent filing
in the field of Nanotechnology. The goal therefore
must be to convert some of this excellent work and
IP into tangible prototypes and products meeting
the societal requirements. The IMPRINT program
is expected to lay down a roadmap for India to
achieve a leadership position in Nanotechnology
product development. Identifying Grand
Challenges faced by the society and addressing
these challenges through a top-down approach is
the best way to deal with these problems. The five
problem areas to be addressed through the
IMPRINT India Nanotechnology Grand Challenges
initiative will be based on the concept of “high
technologies at an affordable cost, addressing the
From homeland security to cyber security, security is going
to be a major concern for the country.
Specifically looking at web enabled healthcare initiatives,
diagnostics, rural healthcare etc. Providing clean water,
meeting the sanitation requirements of population are an
important part of any healthcare initiative in the country.
Fundamentally addressing the precision agriculture areas,
sensors etc. to improve the contribution of agricultural
sector to national GDP. Reducing water wastage is another
major requirement in agriculture.
With a million young people joining the work force every
month, India needs to address their training needs,
educational requirements etc. This needs a major effort in
the educational sector.
In a growing economy like India, every effort must be made
to protect its environment. Use of renewable sources for
energy, sensor networks to regularly monitor and transmit
information related to the pollution, ground water quality
etc. need to be part of this initiative. Along with the
exploration of applications, we must also be aware of the
environmental impact of nanomaterials that are released
from nanotechnology embedded products into the
SHAPE - Security,
indeed the areas where
India Grand Challenges
program can shape the
country's future and
make a significant
impact through clearly
defined goals and
integration of energy harvesting techniques
§ Low cost missile warning systems
§ Development of cost-effective, high-frequency, and
high-power devices for next generation communication
devices, military and commercial applications
§ Low cost systems for landmine detection, aerial
§ Assistive technologies for security forces & commando
§ Encryption/decryption technologies, intelligent video
surveillance techniques, and cyber security
§ Networked healthcare kiosks in rural areas for non-
invasive monitoring & screening of population for
essential body parameters (such as BP, ECG, Blood
sugar levels etc.) and communication to specialists in
§ Low cost point of care diagnostic systems for cardiac,
TB, Malaria, Dengue and other diseases
§ Networked real time water quality monitoring systems
for ground water contamination monitoring in villages
§ Clean water filtration & sanitation systems for rural
§ Hand held & standoff detectors for less intrusive
monitoring of trace quantities of chemical, radiological
and biological threats for airports, railway stations, bus
stands, baggage and vehicle screening
§ Security sensor networks  for major installations,
transport applications, border security including the
§ A low cost point of use systems for soil macro-nutrient
(NPK) and Micro-nutrients (B, Zn, S, Mn.) to promote
soil fertility and balanced crop nutrition
§ Portable point of use systems for detection of plant
viruses and early stage disease  diagnosis
§ Low cost soil moisture, soil temperature, pH sensors for
§ Electronic nose platforms for detection of ethylene (for
fruit ripening detection), methane and H S for paddy
fields, detection of volatile aldehydes during seed
storage for seed quality monitoring etc.
§ Low cost systems for other precision agriculture
applications, pesticide and drug content in food
products, antibiotics and growth promoters in meat,
milk quality monitoring.
§ Nanomaterials for Food packaging applications to
prevent oxygen and other gases from passing through.
§ Air Pollution monitoring systems in traffic junctions
with a mobile phone readout
§ Green synthesis of Nanomaterials
§ Improving the energy conversion efficiency of
renewable sources, Advanced materials for flexible,
cost-effective, and environment-friendly renewable
§ Novel and cost-effective hybrid sensing materials to
monitor toxic and pollutant gases and chemicals in the
§ Energy efficient devices and systems
§ Use of extraordinary electric conductivity of
nanomaterials for application in electric cables and
power lines for reducing transmission losses
§ Structural health monitoring of civil structures &
§ Special manpower development programmes in core
areas such as VLSI design, Embedded systems,
micro/nano-fabrication, nanomaterials and their
applications, Nanoelectronics, Safety aspects of
§ Web enabled learning modules for all the above areas
§ 20 X increase in Quality Improvement Programmes
(QIP) for faculty in second tier educational institutions
§ This initiative is expected to change the paradigm of
how research is conducted in academic institutions in
India. This will be more on the lines of directed basic
research, with clearly defined goals and objectives
resulting in a prototype or technology development.
§ The programme will be time bound with a 5 year
timeline. The team shall identify specifications for a
minimum of five products in each of the SHAPE areas,
having a societal relevance, including the cost
estimates. That will be a total of 25 large multi-
disciplinary, multi-institutional projects, with clearly
defined specifications involving some aspect of
Nanotechnology in the solution.  The projects need to
be regularly reviewed every 6 months. Each of the
projects must have a theme coordinator, who will be
responsible for overseeing the activities.
§ It is expected that all activities end with a proof of
concept/prototype ready for field trials. Such activities
tend to be inherently multi-disciplinary, so the teams
will be encouraged to seek expertise of people with
diverse backgrounds. The projects therefore will be
inter-disciplinary and multi-institutional with product
as a focus.
§ The programme team will look at the existing facilities,
identify gaps that exist in the R&D infrastructure and
address these. The team will identify at least a dozen
institutions where state of the art infrastructure
facilities for micro/nano-fabrication can be created,
including augmenting the existing facilities.
§ Through a national level search, the team will identify
at least 50 outstanding Ph.D. students per deliverable
and commission them to work on these projects. That
would be 25 deliverables X 50 high quality Ph.D.
students =1250 Ph.D. students working on the 25
multi-disciplinary/multi-institutional SHAPE projects
through the IMPRINT India Nanotechnology Grand
§ The programme  will encourage the students and the
faculty involved in these projects to look for
incubation/start-ups as a means to commercialize their
technologies. There will be a provision for supporting
these start-ups through a national level fund during
their incubation period.
§ There will be Technology parks created in many of the
leading institutes where these start-ups can be
anchored. The goal is to create at least 10 startups out
of this initiative in the Nanotechnology area, over a 5
§ The IMPRINT Nanotechnology program will be led by a
National Coordinator (a leading researcher with
expertise in translational research) who reports to the
IMPRINT India Chief Coordinator or the ministry.
An impending water crisis stares the country in her
face today. To illustrate: many of our rivers and
water bodies are heavily polluted, posing severe
health problems; many cities and towns face acute
water shortage every year; much of the population
has no access to safe drinking water; overexploited
groundwater resources are affecting agricultural
output in large tracts of the country; and rapidly
vanishing water bodies have gravely damaged
aquatic ecosystems and their resilience. The low
efficiencies of irrigation water use and poor water
management practices and policies at all levels
have contributed to the overall aquatic crisis. The
focus of the IMPRINT initiative in this domain is to
evolve appropriate educational and research policies
that can complement efforts to overcome the critical
challenges of water resources and river systems.
Source: MSU (Michigan State University) 2013, “Hydrogeology”.
Accessed on October 2015 form:
A river basin is a closely connected hydrological-ecological
system characterised by a web of interactive natural
resources that sustain healthy rivers and terrestrial life.
Holistic and scientific river basin management plays a key
role in sustainable development.
WATER IN URBAN SYSTEMS
Urban habitats are drastically modified ecosystems ―
often in a state of flux. Anthropogenic water use, safe
wastewater disposal or reuse, water scarcity, drainage,
flood management, ecosystem needs and micro-climate
control are key challenges of urban water management.
WATER IN RURAL ECOSYSTEMS
With small clusters distributed over landscape scales, rural
habitations have been transiting from their past stable
states. Their pressing concerns include potable water
needs, water security, sanitation, flood protection and
community water management.
WATER & AGRICULTURE
Conventional modern agriculture has ushered in
unsustainable resource use and increased agroecosystem
vulnerability. Groundwater depletion, water-logging,
increasing soil degradation, and pollution of rivers, water
bodies and groundwater are key concerns of Water &
WATER & INDUSTRY
Industrial growth in a developing country like India is
imperative; hence, so are increasing water use and waste
generation. Re-use and recycling practices thereby
internalizing environmental damages in industrial
development along with appropriate siting define the new
SPATIAL REAL-TIME DATA INFRASTRUCTURE
With huge gaps in data and scanty real-time data, water
resource and river management lie at the mercy of thumb
rules and guesstimates. A robust quality-controlled data
collection system with real-time open access underlies all
future knowledge-based approaches.
Define, maintain and improve the health of water
§ Convert rapid flows to sluggish flows to increase water
availability for human and ecosystems
§ Locally close water and nutrient loop in agriculture,
rural, urban and industrial systems
§ Recognize and disseminate traditional knowledge and
practices regarding management of water and water
§ Increase water-use efficiency through cost effective
technology, interventions, measurements, pricing
mechanisms, informed opinions and public policies
Non Hazardous  Hazardous
MAJOR SCIENCE QUESTIONS
What are the key gaps in data availability, monitoring
and dissemination at various spatial and temporal
scales that affect water resources and river systems?
§ To what extent water availability and water demands
changed historically and how these are likely to change
§ How sensitive are the river basins towards changes in
land-use/ land- cover and climate?
COMPLEMENTING SCIENCE AND
Water is not only a commodity, but its true value also
includes social, cultural, environmental and economic
values. All of these must be considered in appraising
different policies and initiatives to realize the goals of
Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) – social
equity, environmental sustainability and economic
efficiency. Unfortunately, this is rarely done in many
developing countries where poor people often pay much
more than the rich for the same water services. Further,
the value of water embedded, directly or indirectly, in
various products and services also needs recognition.
World over this concept of virtual water now influences
production and trade policies, especially in water-stressed
areas, enabling the most economic and efficient use of
scarce water supplies.
Globally the strategy to improve the overall quality of water
resources is based on local level actions. Lessons learned
— successes and failures — are invaluable sources of
information and, if properly shared, will help us to solve
some of our most pressing freshwater-related problems.
Water Resources and River Systems
The water crisis in many countries today is largely a
governance problem. National responses to water-related
disasters and shortages, allocation of transboundary water
resources, management of national water resources, and
building capacity and knowledge should all be jointly
shared by governments and civil society. In reality,
effective and equitable water management is impeded by
many factors, such as sector fragmentation, corruption,
insufficient aid and investment in the water sector,
institutional shortcomings, and lack of stakeholder
participation. An integrated approach to water
management is the best way to overcome these obstacles.
KNOWLEDGE & CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT
The lack of data and sound knowledge-based systems,
combined with inequitable access to and sharing of
scientific, local and indigenous knowledge, comprises the
major stumbling block to sound water management. This is
especially true for low-income and in-transition countries.
Yet, we have the knowledge and capacity to solve many –
and probably most – of our pressing water-related problems
if water issues are properly governed.
Degree of Complexity
and Support Mechanism
Every Drop Counts
Every Measurement Counts
Every Energy Saving Effort Counts
Every Knowledge Base Document Counts
Every Efficient Policy Decision Making Counts
Urban, Rural, Agriculture &
DELIVERABLE: DOMAIN SPECIFIC POLICY DOCUMENT ON
EDUCATION & RESEARCH
Assessment of present status and setting benchmarks
for engineering, innovation and education
§ Identification of - R&D gaps, policy gaps and
§ Articulation of shift in human resource development
policy at various levels - school to higher education,
§ Re-adjusting focus, identifying needs (infrastructure,
financial and human resources) and timelines for R&D
§ Suggestions for addressing implementation issues
Ability of a nation to harness nature as well as to
cope up with the challenges posed by it is
determined by its knowledge of materials and its
ability to develop and produce them for various
applications. Advanced Materials are at the heart
of many technological developments that touch
our lives. Electronic materials for communication
and information technology, biomaterials for better
health care, sensors for intelligent environment,
energy materials for renewable energy and
environment, light alloys for better transportation,
materials for strategic applications and more.
India has its own unique set of resource and
technological challenges. The objective of the
Imprint India Initiative in this domain is to come
up with research and education policies which will
provide the developmental path for Advanced
Materials for our nation.
The engineering materials are divided into two themes:
Structural and functional. As India is developing rapidly,
the requirements of quality structural materials is on the
rise. High level of demands are placed on various sectors
including steel, cement, light metals and alloys, etc. This,
in turn, requires quality raw materials and availability of
power at affordable price. At the same time, there is a
need for newer structural materials such as advanced
composites and particulate materials. The objective of this
theme is to provide a technology roadmap for the nation to
meet the ever growing requirements in this sector.
India is the fourth largest producer of steel in the world
with annual production of nearly 87 million tonnes and
aims to produce 300 million tonnes by 2025.
Corresponding to this, high targets have been set on
production of raw materials such as iron ores, coking coals,
ferro-alloys, etc. Innovations are needed to mitigate
challenges faced by the nation on raw materials front,
technologies for utilization of non-coking coal, for example.
Apart from the technological challenges, there are
challenges associated with trained manpower and
infrastructure. In terms of product mix, there is a need to
develop indigenous technologies for the development of
advanced high strength steel (AHSS) and cold rolled grain
oriented (CRGO) steel for critical sectors.
Light metallic materials consist alloys based on
aluminium, titanium and magnesium, their foams /
honeycombs and related fabrication technologies. They are
of utmost importance in defence and space applications,
since a large proportion of defence/space systems
structural weight is made of light alloys, allowing higher
payload to be used. Extraction of the respective pure
metals to the required purity levels is equally important.
areas of particulate materials using P/M technique with an
emphasis on processing components for strategic
(ordinance, aerospace and nuclear) and automotive
ADVANCED COMPOSITE MATERIALS
Availability of lightweight, high-strength, and high-stiffness
materials is a key requirement for efficient transportation,
efficient power generation, efficient energy storage,
reduced emission and better protection of army personnel
against variety of threats. The design flexibility provided by
advance composite materials makes them most suited for
many diverse applications such as structural applications
where high stiffness is needed, and high energy absorbing
applications where larger dissipation of energy is required.
However, efforts from research communities are needed to
mass produce these materials in order to reduce cost and
broaden the area of application.
The use of particulate materials or powders as starting
material provides the advantage of formulating novel
compositions and tailoring microstructures. This makes it
well suited to process a range of advanced materials in
demanding applications. Particulate materials are formed
using powder metallurgy (P/M), a net-shape processing
technique offering several economical and ecological
benefits for manufacturing small and medium-sized
components. A unique attribute of this technique is high
material utilization (>98%) and the flexibility that it
provides in consolidating parts at processing temperatures
well below the melting point. This theme aims at providing
a comprehensive understanding of the various application
ULTRAHIGH TEMPERATURE MATERIALS
Ultra-high temperature ceramics (UHTCs) are a class of
materials that can be used under extreme thermal
environments (>2400°C) as they display high melting
temperatures (> 3000°C) while showing high temperature
strength, resistance to oxidation/chemical reactivity,
radiation damage and high temperature erosive attack.
Materials research and technology development in this
field is mandated for developing the UHTCs needs for
hypersonic aerospace application.
In addition to structural materials, electronic, opto-
electronic, energy and functional materials are needed for
variety of applications such as electronics, photovoltaics,
communication and information technology, sensors, etc.
They are equally critical for the devolvement and security
of the nation.
Electronics is omnipresent in today's world. From VLSI
circuits to light emitting diodes (LEDs), photo detectors
and photo voltaic devices, its applications are immense. In
addition to conventional semiconductor (silicon), several
new emerging materials have shown unique property-
portfolio to facilitate future electronic devices.
extent to which they find applications in different domains
in India today. The full potential of smart materials is yet
to be tapped. They can be used from very simple to very
EARTH ABUNDANT ELEMENT BASED FUNCTIONAL
Elements with low abundance in earth's crust (including
rare-earth elements) form an important ingredient of a wide
variety of advanced functional materials critical for self
reliance. Typical application areas include Heat Resistant
Permanent Magnets, Exchange-Spring Magnets, Solid State
Lighting, Solid State Display, Catalysts for Artificial
Photosynthesis, Photovoltaic Materials, Electrodes
Materials for Batteries and Fuel Cells, etc. Sustained R&D
is needed for development of advanced functional
materials from earth abundant elements and deployment of
these materials for end applications across various sectors
including energy, manufacturing, defence, etc. This is
crucial for our self-reliance in functional materials.
While there have been tremendous improvement in
engineering materials over decades, materials scientists
and engineers have been coming up with newer and better
materials every few years. Therefore, a theme on emerging
materials has been included. Most of these materials are
at research stage but could lead to new products and
better lives for the future generation.
Nanomaterials represent a field of vigorous activities in
recent times and is key to the success of many advanced
technologies for critical sectors like defence, healthcare,
agriculture, environment and so on. It is increasingly
realized that reducing the scale and distribution of grains
and phases yields properties which is significantly different
from the bulk properties. The main focus of this sub-theme
will be to develop the understanding of effect of size on
the materials properties, to develop nano-materials for
different application domains and to provide roadmap for
scaling up of nano-materials production at industrial scale.
BIOMATERIALS AND DEVICES
The theme of biomaterials and devices proposes to address
some of the existing clinical challenges, relevant to Indian
population. For example, musculo-skeletal disorders,
cardiovascular and neurological diseases. In order to
The key to sustainable growth and general well-being of
Indian population relies on energy security. Accordingly,
the thrust in scientific research and technology
development should encompass development of cost-
effective, robust, high performance and eco-friendly energy
conversion technologies, such as solar photovoltaics, fuel
cells, thermoelectrics and energy storage technologies,
such as rechargeable batteries, redox flow batteries,
OPTOELECTRONIC MATERIALS AND DEVICES
That sub-field of photonics wherein light-matter interaction
results in the development of light sources, detectors, and
control of light is typically defined as the field of
optoelectronic materials and devices. In this context, light
can be used in the broadest sense of the entire
electromagnetic radiation. Such optoelectronic materials
and devices can have far reaching applications ranging
from ultra-high band communication and renewable energy
on one end to defence and health care on the other end.
Smart materials are those materials that possess both
intrinsic and extrinsic capabilities to respond to stimuli
and environmental changes. They respond to changes in
temperature, stress, pH, magnetic field, electrical field,
etc. The term smart materials encompasses a wide variety
of materials, such as shape memory alloys, piezoelectric
materials, smart gels, electrostrictive materials,
magnetostrictive materials, rheological fluids,
electrochromic materials, conducting polymers, MEMS,
optical fibres, pH-sensitive materials, etc. Smart materials
are still to become popular as evidenced by the smaller
address human diseases, there is a need to manufacture
'make-in-India' medical devices and implants, which
should help in the repair and replacement of diseased and
damaged parts of the human skeleton, heart, bone, teeth
and joints, thereby restoring the function of the otherwise
functionally compromised structures.
POLYMERIC AND SOFT MATERIALS
From its inception until today, polymeric materials have
enhanced our quality of life. Other soft materials include
gels, self-assembled molecular and biomolecular
structures. These classes of materials have a wide range of
applications depending on the functional groups
incorporated into the basic units. In a short span of time
these materials have gained tremendous impetus over
other type of materials because of their interesting
physical properties and ease of tailoring of properties
through molecular engineering.
GLASSY AND AMORPHOUS MATERIALS
Glassy and amorphous materials, specially metallic glasses
and amorphous alloys have gained considerable attention
due to their intriguing structure, exciting properties which
in many ways are much better than the existing
engineering crystalline alloys, and possibility of their use in
many applications, ranging from structure materials due to
their excellent mechanical properties, corrosion and wear
resistant coating, magnetic material, electrode materials,
BIO-INSPIRED AND PATTERNED FUNCTIONAL
Bio-inspired materials are man-made materials, the
structure, geometry and functionality of which mimic
natural materials. The focus/objective of research on this
specific theme are the following: 1) developing knowledge
about multi-functionality of natural materials,2) exploring
bio-mimetic, self organization processes for synthesizing
such materials, 3) exploring fabrication and deployment
method of such materials in large and economical scale for
the benefit of the society.
MATERIALS GENOMICS AND
MATERIALS ENGINEERING (ICME)
Progress in materials science and engineering has made
great strides in recent years as our understanding of
phenomena at various length scales has improved.
Increased computational powers and our ability to model
various phenomena at different length and time scales
have made it possible to design and develop new materials
and processes. Materials Genomics and ICME aim at
accelerated discovery, design, realization and deployment
of new materials and has many components ranging from
ab-initio calculations to higher length scale modelling
(multi-scale modelling), multi-scale experiments for
development, validation and verification of models,
materials informatics, computational materials science,
computational materials design, enabling platforms to
facilitate integration and carry out integrated
computational materials engineering. India needs to
discover, realize and deploy modern materials at a rapid
pace to gain technological leadership. The objective of this
exercise to take stock of where we are, where we want to
be in next 5, 10 & 20 years, identify the gap areas & and
develop educational and research roadmap for the country
so that we meet the needs of the nation in accelerated
discovery, development and deployment of new materials.
All four themes of this domain require skilled manpower,
engineers, scientists, etc. Therefore, a theme on materials
education is included to prepare a roadmap of Materials
Science and Engineering education in the country.
The modern materials scientist or engineer is expected to
accelerate the deployment of new, customized materials.
This requires a thorough understanding of (I) the effect of
atomic composition and structure on material properties,
(ii) engineering principles for designing "green" unit
operations for the production of materials with desirable
properties, and (iii) evaluating material performance under
real-life conditions. Consequently, the conventional
microstructure-properties-processing based curriculum
should be supplemented with topics such as quantum
mechanics, transport phenomena, solid mechanics and
numerical simulation. In fact, the Materials Science and
Engineering (MSE) curriculum should be designed in a
manner such that the lectures and laboratories gives
students a good grasp of the entire materials life cycle,
from materials design to recycling/disposal. The PG
curriculum should specifically account for the wide
variation in the academic background of its students. In
addition, a research strategy should be devised, which
would help fulfil the country's current materials needs
while simultaneously propelling India towards global
…converting ideas into useful products...
Manufacturing encompasses all the activities of
making discrete engineering products from raw
material by various processes and operations
following a well-organized plan for all the aspects
involved. Advanced manufacturing refers to the
application of enabling technologies in
manufacturing. It is important to realize that the
advanced manufacturing systems also require
input from the traditional manufacturing, many
times with stricter control of dimensions and other
technological properties. Therefore, it becomes
important to select proper manufacturing
processes and strategies to deliver the products
with right quality at the right time to the
customers at a competitive price in a sustainable
manner. The challenges faced by the
manufacturing engineers differ from sector to
sector depending on the variety and quantity
required. Typical manufacturing intensive sectors
are automobile, space, health care, energy, textile
and defence. It is a well-known fact that
manufacturing is a wealth-creating activity.
Besides encouraging large scale industries, efforts
must be focused on setting up small and micro
scale industries. Under the right conditions, young
professionals will be able to setup their
manufacturing enterprise anywhere in the country.
Manufacturing has a distinct advantage of
engaging people with different skills, as the
activities vary from traditional to advanced levels.
… bringing about changes in shape and property...
PROCESSES FOR SHAPE CHANGES
Processes such as casting, molding, forming and powder
metallurgy processes produce net-shape parts. The parts
can also be produced by additive methods either by
traditional joining processes and advanced processes like
laser beam welding, electron beam welding, friction stir
welding, or incremental processes such as layered fusion
deposition, 3-D printing and laser sintering. To enhance
the productivity and to maintain stricter control of
dimension and property, continuous improvements and
innovations are necessary in the net-shape manufacturing
processes.  It is possible only through a fundamental
understanding of process mechanics and influence of
different variables on the process outcome.
Subtractive processes involve removal of excess material to
produce parts with required shape, size and finish. For
realization of quality parts, the parts made by net-shape or
additive processes also require the application of
subtractive processes on selected areas. Shearing action
by sharp edges on a cutting tool or abrasive grains on a
grinding wheel removes material in the form of chip or
swarf in traditional processes. When it becomes difficult to
shear the material, non-traditional processes based on
other sources of energy such as chemical, electrical, laser,
plasma and high velocity jet, and different hybrids are
used. Further improvement in finish is achieved by honing
and super-finishing processes that use abrasive sticks and
also by lapping, extrude honing, abrasive flow finishing
and magneto-rheological abrasive finishing processes that
use abrasives in different carrier medium.   In certain
applications, chemical, electro-chemical and hybrid
processes are used to improve the surface finish. The basic
mechanics involved in the subtractive processes are also to
be understood thoroughly to improve the productivity and
PROCESSES FOR PROPERTY CHANGE
Certain parts require changes in bulk material properties at
different stages of manufacturing and the material is
therefore subjected to suitable heat treatment cycle. For
example, molds and dies are easily machined in annealed
condition, while through-hardening is done before the final
grinding or die-sinking. Changes in the properties of
surface layer alone can be achieved by burnishing,
peening, surface hardening, laser treatment, coatings,
plating, and protective painting. Selection of appropriate
method depends on the service requirements.
The manufacturing engineer is expected to know the
material properties and the changes that can be brought
about by suitable treatments. It is essential to know the
charaterization of treated surface and the functional
…checking conformance to specification...
Different characteristics of the manufactured parts are
measured by metrology instruments to verify their
conformance to specification. It is mandatory that the
results are quoted along with the uncertainty in the
measurement. For many critical characteristics, 100%
inspection is necessary. For non-critical characteristics,
sampling inspection is good enough as it reduces the
inspection time and cost. It is prudent to introduce
verification at intermediate stages and make the operator
responsible to produce quality parts.
Systematically carried out measurements are also useful
to ascertain the process capability from time to time. A
good background in statistics is necessary for the people
involved in the measurement and analysis. A suitable
training is necessary for people involved in the metrology
and inspection tasks. The skill level required is one order
higher than that of the process people.
…making machines and accessories
to facilitate manufacturing...
The equipment necessary for different processes such as
casting, forming, machining and other non-traditional
processes are designed and developed by the respective
equipment manufacturer. Standard tools and accessories
are also available to meet the manufacturing requirements
of simple parts. However, industries buying these
machines for production of parts with complex geometry
have to develop required production tools, namely dies,
moulds, special cutting tools and work-holding devices for
each part. Sometimes, dedicated machines are needed to
enhance the quality and productivity. Manufacturing
engineer faces the challenges in developing not only the
dedicated machines, but also a number of production tools
for the parts. All the machines and tooling are subjected to
rigorous inspection by appropriate metrology equipment for
It is seen that many courses on manufacturing have been
removed from the curriculum to make way for latest topics
that are more descriptive. With the available resources,
one can learn them on their own. However, certain core-
courses require rigorous classroom teaching and practical
training. For example, a course on machine-building must
be revived with more emphasis on machine tools
development.  Also a course on tool design and
engineering must be made as a core-course.
…making machines sense and act intelligently...
The metrology which has remained mostly as a post-
manufacturing activity can now be moved closer to
manufacturing process as a result of technological
advancement. Measurement, automation and information
technologies are required to take the manufacturing to the
advanced level. Measurement technology must be built
into the system with metrology and sensing devices for
online monitoring of the process. The process automation
is then achieved by signal processing and appropriate
feedback control.  Automation of tool path movement is
done using CNC technology and part or tool changes are
handled by robotic arms and such devices. Information
technology is useful in CAD-CAM integration and process
simulation, and to take manufacturing to web-based and
virtual reality environment.
The manufacturing engineer is expected to be familiar with
sensor technology, automation and information technology.
Unfortunately, even the existing mechatronics courses do
not meet the growing demands in the manufacturing
sector.  Tailor-made programs need to be floated and skill
upgradation is done depending on the type of industry.
…deciding system configuration and practices...
Based on the product design, data analysis and life cycle
analysis, configuration of manufacturing system must be
arrived using system simulation and intelligent decision
support system. Among the approaches like best practices,
world-class manufacturing, lean manufacturing, agile
manufacturing and other hybrid methods, appropriate
practices have to be identified for small, medium and large
scale manufacturing. Proper mix of manufacturing and
managerial aspects must be ensured for healthy
…facing challenges posed by other sectors...
Manufacturing covers almost all the sectors; typical ones
being automobile, space, electrical and electronics,
energy, health care, textile and defence. Since newer and
advanced materials are used in these sectors and the
product sizes vary from several meters to few millimeters
with feature sizes ranging from millimeter to micrometer,
the challenges have to be met only with innovations in
processes and practices. In the present context, life cycle
cost will be deciding factor in global competiveness.
Therefore, it is necessary for a manufacturing engineer to
have an in-depth knowledge of cost estimation and control.
The product performance must be monitored throughout
its life and this is possible through appropriate sensor
technology and data analytics. To cater to these
challenges, research and development must be encouraged
within the organization. Strong tie-ups with leading
research and academic institutions in the country are
necessary to promote development of newer products and
right from the senior school level.  Government must
encourage young graduates to get into entrepreneurship by
removing procedural bottlenecks and offering incentives.
Working professionals in manufacturing also require
continuous skill upgradation and they may be given
certificate on completion of each program.
…Catch them young...
The education and training policy must be evolved to
achieve excellence in manufacturing in all sectors. The
best approach will be to “Catch Them Young”.  Abundant
curiosity inherent in the children, as evident from the way
they build sand-castles in beach and temporary shelters
using discarded material, must be nurtured in the school
level. To start with, the children can be asked to make
demonstration models using easy-to-cut materials. As they
grow, they can make functional parts using locally
available materials. In senior level, they can make parts by
3-D printing. School curriculum must have a provision for
this practical work.
School-level competition on make-your-part can be held as
an annual event. Like popular “science” books on different
topics, popular “engineering” books on manufacturing
must be brought out. In college/university level, existing
completely descriptive or highly theoretical courses on
manufacturing must be replaced by courses that include
practical aspects in addition to the basic concepts. Even
manufacture of a device can be considered as a free-
elective and given appropriate credit. At the post-graduate
level, a course on manufacturing planning and cost
estimation must be introduced.
Special training programs can be offered to students to
inculcate entrepreneurship skills and prepare their minds
…roadmap for research and education...
With the outline presented above, a roadmap for Research
and Education in Manufacturing will be drawn. It is
sincerely hoped that the roadmap will provide the
directions for students, researchers and practitioners, and
ensure progress for our country.
SCOPE: Protecting national resources including
humans from invasion of any form is crucial to any
country and is carried out by its Defence. Role of
Science and Technology in building a nation's
defence infrastructure is the key. In future, attacks
may be more Technical, Information based and
Accurate. It may neither involve human beings nor
arms and ammunitions (for eg., a Cyber attack).
The technological requirements to fight the
“Modern War” necessitates a large multi-
disciplinary Research and Development framework
spread across the Academia and Industry that
envisages, formulates and solves the challenges to
“fight” the “Modern war” as well as terrorism. The
Imprint India initiative will attempt to develop a
blueprint of this framework including education
policies aimed to generate skilled manpower
needed to work on the challenges posed. Defence
requirements can be broadly classified into four
themes, namely, Life Sciences; Materials;
Electronics and Communication Systems; and
Combat Engineering Systems. Grand Challenges in
each of these themes are presented below.
The soldier is as important as the weapon. Ensuring the
well being of a soldier is paramount to enable best
performance at wartime, which continues to be a challenge
that needs to be addressed
Welfare of the soldier on the battlefield is of prime
importance. The challenges are to protect them from
different forms of attacks; devise effective ways for
reaching medical assistance to the site; and, medical
treatment procedures for quick healing of the injury.
Continuous monitoring of health parameters of a soldier in
action is also of prime importance. Specific challenges in
this area are as listed below.
§ Portable Health Care for quick and accurate diagnosys
§ Development of “Regenerative Medicine” for “Rapid
Wound Healing”, “Rapid Bone-Reconstruction",
Injectable scaffolds for bone loss and repair
§ Defence health care instrumentation monitoring and
expert systems using big Data analytics
§ Wearable medical devices for army personnel health
§ Dermal-protection for on-field soldiers
NUCLEAR BIOLOGICAL CHEMICAL DEFENCE
One of the toughest challenges today is to develop
capabilities to protect soldiers and common people from
the consequences of Nuclear, Biological or Chemical
attacks. The toughness is primarily due to the fact that
these attacks may not be as explicit as a conventional
attack like a gunfight and can take place silently. These
attacks can cause much widespread damage than the
conventional ones. Specific challenges in this area are as
Design & development of Bullet proof and Blast proof
light weight material systems
§ Design & development of high frequency/high
temperature semiconductor devices & circuits for harsh
§ Contamination Avoidance, Protection and
§ Soft magnetic materials for high frequency
applications, magnetic markers
§ Water and food purification systems
§ Fabrication of high energy and high power density
§ NBC Protective clothing
§ Large portable protective tents
§ Medical Management of Biological and Chemically
§ Hazard estimation
§ Radiological Monitor/Survey
§ Radiological Hazard Prediction
§ NBC Defence Training through simulations and war
Materials that aid in development of effective defence
technologies are the most vital. The effectiveness is
measured in terms of enhanced safety that it provides to
systems and personnel.
§ Explosive Detection, Chemical screening, Super-hard
materials, GaN and Ga2O3 material growth and device
fabrication, 2D materials and devices
§ Development of rejoinable polymeric materials with
high healing efficiency
§ Development of surface coatings for better corrosion
resistance properties under aggressive environment
§ Fatigue studies of advanced composite materials for
structural application in aircrafts
§ Organic molecular electronic materials
§ Development of Functional Materials and Light Weight
Composites for Stealth Applications in
§ RF, Microwave and THz Frequency Range
§ Micro Fuel Cell in MEMS used in Missile systems
§ Composites with improved electrical conduction,
Stealth composites, sandwich structures
Intelligence need to be built at every level to win a war and
that includes the materials used to build defence weapons
and systems. The challenge is to understand and model
the environment in a battlefield and study the behavior of
materials under such environments. Specific challenges in
this area are as listed below.
In the age of informed wars wherein, monitoring of the
battlefield need to be done remotely based on different
real-time parameters inside the battlefield and guidance
provided from a central control center, the challenge is to
build weight, size and power optimized sensors that can
accurately sense these in-field parameters. Specific
challenges in this area are as listed below.
Ÿ DTN based messaging Systems and P2P based
§ Object code modelling and software verification
Ÿ Secure Routers and Switches
§ Toolkits for parallel and concurrent programming
Ÿ Fuel-cell Powered Submarines
difficult to analyze from a security viewpoint. In addition,
these layers provide the necessary high-performance
libraries for development of application software. Specific
challenges in this area are as listed below.
Ÿ Fighter Aircrafts, Flight controller for surveillance
quadcopters, Submarines, Micro-aero vehicles and
backpack rockets for mobility of soldiers in
Development of RF Sensors, Thin film/Nano sensors,
Magnetic Sensors, Self-powered sensors, wearable
sensors/textile based technologies for army men
Building modern digital communication modems and
Ÿ Homeland Security Networks, Boradband Tactical
§ Sensors for improvised explosive device detection,
organic sensors for explosive device detection,
Handheld gas sensing system to selectively detect toxic
§ Morphing structures, energy generation from vibrations
Ÿ Communication with long range missiles for
to power up small electronics/sensors
direction control and target accuracy.
All modern defence systems are electro-mechanical as
supposed to mostly mechanical systems of the past.
Electronics, computing and communication systems form
an integral part of the backbone of any defence system.
Every system comprises a combination of one or more of
the following, namely, hardware, system software and
Effective Hardware design is crucial for building any
system. The effectiveness is measured in terms of
reliability, weight, performance and power consumption. In
addition, in any compute or communication systems the
hardware is the Root of Trust. This necessitates formal
verification of the hardware units. The formal verification
process, in turn, requires complete details of all the
hardware components driving the need for total indigenous
development. Specific challenges in this area are as listed
§ Formally verified secure systems
Ÿ Framework for guaranteeing end-to-end security,
Trojan detection tools and mechanisms
Ÿ Indigenous Microprocessors with High Assurance
Boot and Tamper Detect
§ Real-time Embedded Signal Processing Systems for
RADAR and SONAR applications
Techniques for Security
§ Real-time Embedded Signal Processing Systems
Ÿ VLSI Architectures for long range Imaging Systems
§ Indigenous renewable energy devices
§ High performance computing cluster of many-core
Ÿ Computationally intensive problem solving
In the design of any compute or communication system
the entire stack ranging from hardware, system software to
applications need to be secure. The system software,
namely, compilers and operating systems are complex and
§ RF, Microwave and Millimeter &Thz Wave Imaging
theater war games
Software to model environments that are highly
multidisciplinary in nature is crucial for defence related
design and development. Specific needs are listed below.
§ Deep-learning based anomaly detection in dense
Automated target recognition
§ Battlefield surveillance, guidance and control of
§ GPS development, Video Analytics for Surveillance,
Compressive Sensing and Imaging
§ Virtual Reality for Terrain Exploration, Flight simulation,
§ Artificial Intelligence based applications
Terrain exploration and surveillance UAVs of 2000Kg
class, high speed, long range and long flight duration
§ Autonomous Soldier bot, Command and Control
Infrastructure, Collision detection and avoidance.
Ÿ Planning, Knowledge Representation and Reasoning
§ Autonomous Systems Certification and Techniques to
validate correctness of robotic systems
COMBAT ENGINEERING SYSTEMS
Combat systems form the front-end of military operations.
They need to handle multi-sensor data fusion leading to
higher situational awareness with partially or fully
autonomous decision-making capabilities. Engineering
state-of-the-art combat systems that ensures sophisticated
fighting capabilities, mobility and protection is crucial for
winning wars. These include the following:
AIRCRAFTS AND SUBMARINES
§ National Airspace Systems
ARMAMENTS AND ENGINEERING SUPPORT SYSTEMS
Stealth  paints, long lasting mini batteries, Blast
resistant vehicles, shields and structures
§ Fabrication of RFID, LIDAR, Infra-Red optics, Plastic
Electronics and Silicon Photonics
§ New age engines with solid fuels for gas turbines
§ Non destructive testing and assessment techniques
§ Hybrid air-water ballistic missile development,
underwater acoustic instruments
Smart weapons, Rail gun, Ground Effect Vehicles
(Ekranoplane), Super Cavitating Torpedo
Environmental change, specifically climate
change, has emerged as a major concern in the
21st century. Demand for energy, water and food
for raising the standard of life are driving the
environmental changes. Deforestation and CO  2
emissions from fossil fuels such as coal and
petroleum are the main causes for climate change.
The major environmental problems for India in the
coming decades include air and water pollution,
heat waves and changes to monsoon rainfall and
glacier retreat due to climate change, impacts of
climate change on our food, water and forestry
resources, biodiversity loss, sea level rise and the
consequent impacts on our coastal communities.
Ocean acidification, often referred to as the evil
twin of global warming, is also likely to cause
disturbance to marine life including corals and
fisheries in the Indian Ocean. India has already
taken major initiatives to improve our scientific
understanding of environmental change and to
adapt to and mitigate these changes. Some of the
urgent scientific and engineering challenges in the
area of environment change are discussed below.
Locally generated knowledge on climate sciences is
strategically crucial for providing sound guidance on the
impacts of climate change on various sectors in India. In
the last 3 decades, several countries have developed
mathematical models to project future climate change but
India lags behind in model development. Since climate
model development is essentially a scientific and
engineering exercise and since there is plenty of expertise
in science and engineering in India, India should identify
the development of one or more earth system models as a
key national priority. Creation of a long term climate
observation network and objective assessments of extreme
events and climate change impacts on agriculture, forestry,
water resources, glaciers, health, coastal zones, corals and
fisheries should be also considered as national priorities.
Resources for creating skilled manpower in this domain
should be provided by the government of India.
Simulation and prediction of the Indian Summer Monsoon
on seasonal and intraseasonal scales is one of the major
challenges in weather and climate sciences. Skill of
numerical and empirical models in predicting monsoons
has improved in recent years but there is still considerable
scope of improvement. Forecasting skill can be improved
by better representation of physical processes in climate
models.  Dedicated research into numerical methods is
also required if India were to develop its own model for
weather and climate. With increasing amounts of data
available from satellites and other sources, studying
monsoons is also a 'Big Data' challenge. Newer machine
learning techniques can be used to mine this data and
obtain new insight. Improved utilization of this data also
requires extensive research into data assimilation to
provide better initial conditions for forecasts. All this
would require interdisciplinary research combining skills of
various IITs and IISc in weather, climate, turbulence
studies, applied mathematics and computational science.
Oceans play an important role in modulating monsoons.
Understanding the interplay between the atmosphere and
oceans requires in-situ data collection and modeling.
Hence, more oceanic expeditions and high resolution
ocean modelling capability would be needed to understand
the complex thermodynamic structure and circulation in
the Indian Ocean. By taking up anthropogenic carbon
dioxide, oceans help to mitigate climate change.  They also
support corals and fisheries in coastal regions. However,
invasion of anthropogenic carbon dioxide into ocean water
leads to ocean acidification which is often referred to as
the "evil twin of global warming" or the "other CO  2
problem". The acidified waters could be detrimental to
marine organisms as calcification rates in marine
calcifying organisms could be reduced. Hence, there is an
urgent need to study the chemistry and biology of Indian
Ocean waters using extensive observations and complex
earth system models that simulate the ocean
Air pollution continues to remain a public health concern
despite various actions taken to control air pollution. The
problem becomes more complex due to multiplicity and
complexity of air polluting source mix (e.g., industries,
automobiles, generator sets, domestic fuel burning, road
side dusts, construction activities, etc.). The urgent needs
in this theme are extensive data compilation, management
and interpretation of the monitored air quality,
development of grid based emission inventory of the
specified pollutants (PM , PM , SO , NOx, CO, benzene,
metals and PAHs), meteorological and air quality modeling
of these pollutants with prediction capabilities.
AEROSOLS AND CLIMATE
Aerosols are suspended particulates in the atmosphere and
they are believed to be mitigating global warming by
increasing the planetary albedo, although the sign and
magnitude of aerosol effects on climate are uncertain. In
addition to contributing to air pollution, aerosols could
alter precipitation and winter fog patterns in India. The
problem becomes complex when the interaction of aerosols
with clouds, their chemical composition and vertical
distribution are considered. Resolving the role of aerosol
on Indian summer monsoon rainfall and winter fog and
mitigation of the undesired effects of aerosol should be
priority areas for research.
WATER RESOURCES &
Climate change is likely to affect the Indian Summer
Monsoon Rainfall and hence water resources in this
country.  Climate change impacts in the water sector
include potential shortage of fresh water and inadequate
ground water recharge. Climate warming is likely to
increase the evaporative loss of water from our reservoirs.
Increase in irrigation and the consequent decline in ground
water storage is also another major challenge in the water
sector. Further, our water ways are highly polluted by
nitrates and heavy metals as a result of excessive fertilizer
and pesticide usage in the agriculture sector and by
industrial wastes. A rigorous scientific program for
improved understanding of water cycle in a changing
climate, adaptation of water management strategies to
climate change and waste water recycling is essential for
FORESTS AND CLIMATE CHANGE
Forestry is one of the most important sectors in the context
of climate change, both from the point of mitigation as
well as adaptation. It lies at the centre-stage of global
mitigation and adaptation efforts. Yet it is one of the least
understood sectors, especially at the regional level - many
of its fundamental metrics such as its mitigation potential,
its vulnerability and the likely impacts of climate change
on forests and carbon stock are not well understood. There
is synergy between mitigation and adaptation when
considering forest sector: while forests are projected to be
adversely impacted under climate change forests also
provide opportunities to mitigate climate change. Thus,
there is a need for research and field demonstration of
synergy between mitigation and adaptations that the cost
of addressing climate change impacts can be reduced and
The Himalayas is home to one of the largest glacier-stored
waters outside the Polar Regions. Melt water from these
glaciers and seasonal snow form an important source of
run off into the north Indian rivers during critical summer
months. However, this source of water is likely to decline
because of global warming. Therefore, monitoring and
modeling the changes in distribution of seasonal snow,
glaciers and glacial lakes are important. However, lack of
trained manpower and rugged terrain pose major
challenges to collection of data on snow and glaciers. A
rigorous scientific program on satellite remote-sensing,
field observations and modelling is urgently needed to
provide guidance on the impacts of potential glacier retreat
in the coming decades.
Research in environmental science and climate change in
India has been so far mostly limited to the Indian
geography. Assessments of climate change adaptation and
mitigation have been also limited to India. For India to
take global leadership position in the 21st century, this
barrier has to be crossed. Merely receiving inputs on global
environment and climate change from reports from global
agencies would not be sufficient. India should start
generating its own knowledge on global energy scenario
and global environmental and climate change. Hence, as a
long term strategy, Indian government should start
promoting observational and modeling research into energy
and environmental issues that concerns the entire planet.
Climate and environmental sciences are fast emerging new
sciences around the world. These are interdisciplinary or
multidisciplinary sciences that require multiple skills to
succeed. Collaboration is the key for success in these
sciences and hence mechanisms to promote collaborative
research across individuals, disciplines and Institutions
need to be formulated.  Following is a short, but not an
exhaustive, list of mechanisms that are needed to promote
the capacity development in this domain.
CREATE CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE IN CLIMATE
Create centres of excellence in climate science at all IITs,
IISERs, NITs and central universities for generating the
scientific expertise required in this domain.
PROMOTE COLLABORATIONS & TEAM WORK
Create mechanisms or incentives so individuals with
expertise in hydrology, atmospheric science, climate
science, radiative transfer, aerosol science, satellite
meteorology, etc. come together for developing strong
modelling and observational capabilities. For example,
special funds can be created to allow short term faculty
exchange visits across the institutions. More financial
support should be provided to groups rather than
individuals in order to promote inter-disciplinary work.
Such incentives are likely to promote the execution of “big
science” projects in this theme.
CREATE NATIONAL DATA CENTRES
Observational and model data collected by individual
scientists should go into National data centres for climate
and environment related variables. The data should have
open and free access.
CREATE NATIONAL SUPERCOMPUTING FACILITY
To promote a true spirit of team work across institutions,
initiate mechanisms for creating a National
supercomputing facility (which could be part of the
National Supercomputing Mission) which can be accessed
by scientists working in institutions across the country.
PROMOTE A STRONG POST-DOC PROGRAM
Major research is usually performed by young scientists
around the world right after the grant of Ph.D. To tap this
vast potential, a comprehensive national policy to
encourage post-doc employment should be initiated. These
positions should come with the same attractive benefits
that are normally offered to permanent employees in
research Institutions except that the post-doc positions are
temporary in nature. At present, this crucial research link
between studentship and faculty is missing because of the
lack of an attractive post-doc program in the country.
Illustration of “Environmental Change” Theme
Environmental Issues of 21  century
Illustration of“Climate Change” Theme
Climate Change Impacts
NATIONAL IMPRINT COORDINATOR
Professor Indranil Manna
Director, IIT Kanpur (director@iitk.ac.in)
Professor A. K. Singh
Department of Materials Science & Engineering, IIT Kanpur (amarendra@iitk.ac.in)
email: imprint@iitk.ac.in  |   website: www.imprint-india.org
Professor Suman Chakraborty
Professor Goutam Saha
Professor Rangan Banerjee
Professor Balasubramian Kavaipatti
Professor V. Ramgopal Rao
and River Systems
Professor Vinod Tare
Professor P. P. Mujumdar (IISc)
Professor M S Shunmugham
Professor N Ramesh Babu
Security and Defence
Professor V Kamakoti
Professor Naresh Bhatnagar
Environmental Science and
Professor Anupam Basu
Professor P. K. Biswas
Professor Pradipta Banerji
Professor Monica Katiyar
Professor A K Singh
Professor G. Bala
Professor Ravi S Nanjundiah
IIT Kanpur, National Coordinator
Professor G Bala
Professor Prabhat Kumar Singh
Professor B. Mishra
Professor R K Panda
Professor V. Ramgopal Rao
Professor Kushal Sen
Professor Vikrant Jain
Professor SRM Prasanna
Professor Zafar A Khan
Dr. Bhupesh K Lad
Dr. V Narayanan
Professor A K Singh
Professor Goutam Saha
Professor V Kamakoti
Dr. Bharat Rajpurohit
Dr. Preetam Kumar
Dr. Arijit Mondal
Professor Arindam Biswas
Professor Subhendu Sarkar