Sexual Harassment of
Women at Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
for Employers / Institutions / Organisations/
Internal Complaints Committee / Local Complaints Committee
Towards a new dawn
Government of India
Ministry of Women and Child Development
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
for Employers / Institutions / Organisations/
Internal Complaints Committee / Local Complaints Committee
Government of India
Ministry of Women and Child Development
SECTION 1: INTRODUCTION
1.1   THE MANDATE
1.3    THE ACT
1.4  PURPOSE OF THIS HANDBOOK
1.5   WHO IS THIS HANDBOOK FOR?
1.6   STRUCTURE OF THE HANDBOOK
SECTION 2: WORKPLACE SEXUAL HARASSMENT- WHAT IS IT?
2.1   WHO IS AN AGGRIEVED WOMAN
2.2   WHAT IS A WORKPLACE?
2.3   WHAT IS SEXUAL HARASSMENT AT WORKPLACE?
2.4  KEY ELEMENTS OF WORKPLACE SEXUAL HARASSMENT
2.5   EXAMPLES OF BEHAVIOURS AND SCENARIOS THAT CONSTITUE SEXUAL HARASSMENT
2.6   FORMS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION 3: PREVENTION & PROHIBITION
3.1   PREVENTIVE AUTHORITIES
3.2   WHO IS A DISTRICT OFFICER (DO)?
3.3   RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AFOREMENTIONED AUTHORITIES
SECTION 4 : REDRESS
4.1   WHO CAN COMPLAIN AND WHERE?
4.2   WHAT SHOULD THE COMPLAINT CONTAIN?
4.3   WHAT CAN AN EMPLOYEE/WORKER EXPECT?
4.4   KEY RESPONSIBILITIES
4.5   KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, TRAINING
4.6   DO’S AND DON’TS FOR COMPLAINTS COMMITEE
4.7   NON-NEGOTIABLES DURING THE INQUIRY PROCESS
4.8   THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMPLAINT PROCESS
4.9   AT A GLANCE
SECTION 5: MONITORING
SECTION 6: GLOBAL NORMS AND GOOD PRACTICES
“The meaning and content of the fundamental rights
guaranteed in the Constitution of India are of sufficient
amplitudes to encompass all facets of gender equality….”
Late Chief Justice J.S. Verma, Supreme Court of India, Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan
“Whereas sexual harassment results in violation of the fundamental rights
of a Woman to equality.....”
[Preamble,  Sexual  Harassment  of  Women  at  Workplace  (Prevention,
Prohibition & Redressal) Act]
As enshrined in the Preamble to the Constitution of India, “equality of status and opportunity”
must be secured for all its citizens; equality of every person under the law is guaranteed by
Article 14 of the Constitution.
A safe workplace is therefore a woman’s legal right. Indeed, the Constitutional doctrine of equality
and personal liberty is contained in Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Indian Constitution. These articles
ensure a person’s right to equal protection under the law, to live a life free from discrimination
on any ground and to protection of life and personal liberty. This is further reinforced by the UN
Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), which was
adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1979 and which is ratified by India. Often described as an
international bill of rights for women, it calls for the equality of women and men in terms of human
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  in  the  political,  economic,  social,  cultural  and  civil  spheres.  It
underlines that discrimination and attacks on women’s dignity violate the principle of equality of
Sexual  harassment  constitutes  a  gross  violation  of  women's  right  to  equality  and  dignity.  It
has  its  roots  in  patriarchy  and  its  attendant  perception  that  men  are  superior  to  women  and
that  some  forms  of  violence  against  women  are  acceptable.  One  of  these  is  workplace  sexual
harassment, which  views  various  forms  of  such harassment,  as  harmless  and  trivial.  Often, it  is
excused as ‘natural’ male behaviour or ‘harmless flirtation’ which women enjoy. Contrary to these
perceptions, it causes serious harm and is also a strong manifestation of sex discrimination at the
workplace. Not only is it an infringement of the fundamental rights of a woman, under Article 19
(1) (g) of the Constitution of India “to practice any profession or to carry out any occupation, trade
or business”; it erodes equality and puts the dignity and the physical and psychological well-being
of workers at risk. This leads to poor productivity and a negative impact on lives and livelihoods.
To further compound the matter, deep-rooted socio-cultural behavioural patterns, which create
a gender hierarchy, tend to place responsibility on the victim, thereby increasing inequality in the
workplace and in the society at large.
Though  sexual  harassment  at  the  workplace  has  assumed  serious  proportions,  women  do  not
report  the  matter  to  the  concerned  authorities  in  most  cases  due  to  fear  of  reprisal  from  the
harasser, losing one’s livelihood, being stigmatized, or losing professional standing and personal
Across  the  globe  today,  workplace  sexual  harassment  is  increasingly  understood  as  a  violation
of women's rights and  a  form  of violence against women. Indeed,  the social construct of male
privileges  in  society  continues  to  be  used  to  justify  violence  against  women  in  the  private  and
public sphere. In essence, sexual harassment is a mirror reflecting male power over women that
sustains patriarchal relations. In a society where violence against women, both subtle and direct,
is borne out of the patriarchal values, women are forced to conform to traditional gender roles.
These  patriarchal  values  and  attitudes  of  both  women  and  men  pose  the  greatest  challenge  in
resolution and prevention of sexual harassment. Workplace sexual harassment, like other forms
of violence, is not harmless. It involves serious health, human, economic and social costs, which
manifests themselves in the overall development indices of a nation.
The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
was enacted to ensure safe working spaces for women and to build enabling work environments
that  respect  women’s  right  to  equality  of  status  and  opportunity.  An  effective  implementation
of  the  Act  will  contribute  to  the  realization  of  their  right  to  gender  equality,  life  and  liberty,
equality  in  working  conditions  everywhere.  The  sense  of  security  at  the  workplace  will
improve women’s participation in work, resulting in their economic empowerment and inclusive
The full scale of the problem is not known given the difficulties in documenting the experience
of  those  who  have  experienced  workplace  sexual  harassment.  However,  available  studies  on
sexual harassment show that it is certainly prevalent in India today. This is why the legislation is an
important step forward within the larger architecture of women’s rights, as it tackles this issue to
secure the rights of women workers across the country.
While the official figures for women’s work participation are low, much of the work that women
do is not captured in official data accounts. It is argued1 that where this is to be captured, women’s
overall  work  participation  would  be  86.2  per  cent.  While  the  official  data2 shows  that  women’s
work participation rate is around 25.3 per cent in rural areas and 14.7 per cent in the urban areas,
estimates indicate that there is a huge workforce of women, therefore there is a need to secure
their workplace and entitlements. Given, that 93 per cent of women workers are employed in the
informal sector, they remain unprotected by laws. With no laws or mechanisms to protect them,
proactive measures are required to make their workplaces safe.
1 Professor Jayati Ghosh, Paper on ‘What Exactly is Work? http://www.macroscan.org/cur/oct14/pdf/Exactly_Work.pdf
2 NSSO 2011-12
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
It is well established that ensuring safe working conditions for women leads to a positive impact
on their participation in the workforce and increases their productivity, which in turn benefits the
nation as a whole. Economically, empowered women are key to the nation’s overall development
and this can only be achieved if it is ensured that women’s workspaces across all sectors and all
over the country have a safe and secure environment for work.
It is important as well to ensure that the emphasis is on prevention rather than punitive action.
This  calls  for  widespread  awareness  on  the  Act  among  employers,  managers  and  the  workers
themselves.  Frequently, women workers may face sexual harassment but may not be aware that
it is a breach of their rights and that there is something they can do about it. They need to know
that they can do something about it.  Then there are others, who may believe that it is a personal
matter that needs to be resolved by the people involved. In order to change this order of things, it
is urgent that measures are taken to change mind-sets and attitudes by creating awareness about
what constitutes sexual harassment and the steps that can be taken to address it.
This handbook will serve as an important tool to make workplaces safe and benefit both workers
and employers alike, leading to mutual gains.
1.1  THE MANDATE
Today,  all  workplaces  in  India  are  mandated  by  law  to  provide  a  safe  and  secure  working
environment free from sexual harassment for all women.
1.2 THE GENESIS
In 1992, a rural level change agent, Bhanwari Devi, was engaged by the state of Rajasthan as a
Sathin3 to work towards the prevention of the practice of child marriages. During the course of her
work, she prevented the marriage of a one-year old girl in the community. Her work was met with
resentment and attracted harassment from men of that community. Bhanwari Devi reported this
to the local authority but no action was taken. That omission came at great cost – Bhanwari was
subsequently gang raped by those very men.
The Bhanwari Devi case revealed the ever-present sexual harm to which millions of working women
are exposed across the country, everywhere and everyday irrespective of their location. It also
shows the extent to which that harm can escalate if nothing is done to check sexually offensive
behaviour in the workplace.
Based on the facts of Bhanwari Devi’s case, a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed by Vishaka and
other women groups against the State of Rajasthan and Union of India before the Supreme Court
of India. It proposed that sexual harassment be recognized as a violation of women`s fundamental
right  to  equality  and  that  all  workplaces/establishments/institutions  be  made  accountable  and
responsible to uphold these rights.
3 Sathin’ means a friend
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
In a landmark judgment, Vishaka vs. State of Rajasthan (1997)4, the Supreme Court of India created
legally binding guidelines basing it on the right to equality and dignity accorded under the Indian
Constitution as well as by the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women (CEDAW).
?  A definition of sexual harassment
?  Shifting accountability from individuals to institutions
?  Prioritizing prevention
?  Provision of an innovative redress mechanism
The Supreme Court defined sexual harassment as any unwelcome, sexually determined physical,
verbal,  or  non-verbal  conduct.  Examples  included  sexually  suggestive  remarks  about  women,
demands for sexual favours, and sexually offensive visuals in the workplace. The definition also
covered situations where a woman could be disadvantaged in her workplace as a result of threats
relating to employment decisions that could negatively affect her working life.
It placed responsibility on employers to ensure that women did not face a hostile environment,
and prohibited intimidation or victimization of those cooperating with an inquiry, including the
affected complainant as well as witnesses.
It directed for the establishment of redressal mechanism in the form of Complaints Committee,
which will look into the matters of sexual harassment of women at workplace. The Complaints
Committees were mandated to be headed by a woman employee, with not less than half of its
members being women and provided for the involvement of a third party person/NGO expert on
the issue, to prevent any undue pressure on the complainant.  The guidelines extended to all kinds
of employment, from paid to voluntary, across the public and private sectors.
Vishaka established that international standards/law could serve to expand the scope of India’s
Constitutional  guarantees  and  fill  in  the  gaps  wherever  they  exist.  India’s  innovative  history  in
tackling  workplace  sexual  harassment  beginning  with  the  Vishaka  Guidelines  and  subsequent
legislation has given critical visibility to the issue. Workplaces must now own their responsibility
within this context and ensure that women can work in safe and secure spaces.
1.3 THE ACT
Having raised the bar of responsibility and accountability in the Vishaka Guidelines, the Supreme
Court placed an obligation on workplaces, institutions and those in positions of responsibility, to
uphold working women’s fundamental right to equality and dignity at the workplace. Three key
obligations were imposed on institutions to meet that standard, namely:
4 (AIR 1997 Supreme Court 3011)
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
In  2013,  the  Government  of  India  notified  the  Sexual
Harassment  of  Women  at  Workplace  (Prevention,
Prohibition  and  Redressal)  Act  (referred  to  as  Act
hereinafter).    Consistent  with  the  Vishaka  judgment,
the  Act  aspires  to  ensure  women’s  right  to  workplace
compliance with the above mentioned three elements.
from  sexual  harassment
important  to  note  that  the  Act  provides  a
civil  remedy  to  women  and  is  in  addition  to  other
laws  that  are  currently
any  woman  who  wishes  to  report
sexual  harassment  at  the  workplace  has  the  right  to
take recourse of both civil and criminal proceedings.
1.4 PURPOSE OF THIS HANDBOOK
is  meant  for  all  workplaces/institutions/organizations  to  provide  a  basic
understanding of sexual harassment at places of work. Additionally, it is designed to offer Internal
Complaints Committee/s and Local Complaints Committee/s (Complaints Committee/s) established
under the Act, with simple, user friendly information on sexual harassment; what is expected of
Complaints Committee/s to redress a complaint; and what the inquiry process and outcome should
1.5 WHO IS THIS HANDBOOK FOR
This handbook informs the end user (an employee/worker) about workplace sexual harassment
and their right to an informed complaint process in seeking redress as provided under the Act and
Rules framed thereunder.
1.6  STRUCTURE OF THE HANDBOOK
This Handbook has 6 sections, with each containing information for women, male co-workers as
well as their employers, on how to deal with sexual harassment at the workplace in the context
of the Act.
Section 1  serves as an introduction, as it details the genesis of the Act and the history behind it,
as well as provides a brief description of the Act itself. This section also describes the
purpose of this handbook and who it is designed for.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Section 2  sets the context by defining a workplace and sexual harassment. It provides the reader
with key elements, such as examples of sexual harassment as well as scenarios and the
impact of such behaviour.
Section 3  focuses on the key individuals and institutions involved in the prohibition and prevention
processes and their responsibilities.
Section 4  is  about  redress.  This  section  identifies  and  defines  the  key  players  involved  in  the
complaint  mechanism  (including  the  complainant  and  the  respondent).  It  details  the
stages of the complaint process. Particular attention is paid to the complaints committee
which plays a very important role in this process.
Section 5  describes the monitoring requirements as per the Act.
Section 6  lists  the  important  international  frameworks  and  select  best  practices  on  sexual
harassment at the workplace.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Workplace Sexual Harassment- What Is It?
“No woman shall be subjected to sexual harassment at any workplace.”
Section  3(1)  of  the  Sexual  Harassment  of  Women  at  Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
This  section  defines  the  aggrieved  woman,  workplace  and  sexual  harassment  as  well  as
highlights key elements of workplace sexual harassment. It provides examples of behaviours
through which a woman can experience possible professional and personal harm. It presents
the user with scenarios from across-section of work contexts to build clarity on different forms of
sexual harassment as identified under the Act.
2.1  WHO IS AN AGGRIEVED WOMAN?
The  Act  recognizes  the  right  of  every  woman  to  a  safe  and  secure  workplace  environment
irrespective  of  her  age  or  employment/work  status.  Hence,  the  right  of  all  women  working  or
visiting any workplace whether in the capacity of regular, temporary, adhoc, or daily wages basis
is protected under the Act.
It includes all women whether engaged directly or through an agent including a contractor, with
or without the knowledge of the principal employer. They may be working for remuneration, on a
voluntary basis or otherwise. Their terms of employment can be express or implied.
Further, she could be a co-worker, a contract worker, probationer, trainee, apprentice, or called by
any other such name. The Act also covers a woman, who is working in a dwelling place or house.
2.2 WHAT IS A WORKPLACE?
A workplace is defined as “any place visited by the employee arising out of or during the course of
employment, including transportation provided by the employer for undertaking such a journey.”
As per this definition, a workplace covers both the organised and un-organised sectors.
It  also  includes  all  workplaces  whether  owned  by  Indian  or  foreign  company  having  a  place  of
work in India. As per the Act, workplace includes:
-  Government  organizations,  including  Government  company,  corporations  and  cooperative
Private sector organisations, venture, society, trust, NGO or service providers etc. providing
services which are commercial, vocational, educational, sports, professional, entertainment,
industrial, health related or financial activities, including production, supply, sale, distribution
-  Hospitals/Nursing Homes;
Places visited by the employee (including while on travel) including transportation provided by
-  A dwelling place or house.
The Act defines the Unorganised Sector as:
•  Any enterprise owned by an individual or self-employed workers engaged in the production or
sale of goods or providing services of any kind;
•  Any enterprise which employs less than 10 workers.
All women working or visiting workplaces, for example:
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
2.3  WHAT IS SEXUAL HARASSMENT AT THE WORKPLACE?
“Sexual  Harassment”  includes  anyone  or  more  of  the  following  unwelcome  acts  or  behaviour
(whether directly or by implication), namely:
1.  Physical contact or advances;
2.  A  demand or request for sexual favours;
3.  Making sexually coloured remarks;
4.  Showing pornography;
5.  Any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature
2.4  KEY ELEMENTS OF WORKPLACE SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Very  often  situations  that  start  off  innocently  end  up  in  inappropriate  and  unprofessional
behaviours. It is important to remember that workplace sexual harassment is sexual, unwelcome
and the experience is subjective. It is the impact and not the intent that matters and it almost always
occurs in a matrix of power. It is possible that a woman may experience a single instance of sexual
harassment or a series of incidents over a period of time. It is important also to remember that
each case is unique and should be examined in its own context and according to the surrounding
circumstances as a whole.
The  following  table  highlights  the  subjective
nature  of  the  experience  and  the  impact  it  may
have  on  the  person  involved,  irrespective  of  the
intent of such behaviour.
To  enable  prevention  of  sexual  harassment  at
the  workplace,  it  is  critical  to  recognize  and
differentiate  between  welcome  and  unwelcome
sexual  behaviour.  Listed  are  some  examples  of
how  “unwelcome”  and  “welcome”  behaviour  is
THE FIRST STEP TO PREVENTION IS
Workplace Sexual Harassment is
behaviour that is
SEXUAL in nature
A SUBJECTIVE experience
IMPACT not intent is what matters
Often occurs in a matrix of POWER
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Causes negative self-esteem
Impact of inappropriate behaviour
The  impact  of  sexual  harassment  at  the  workplace  is  far-reaching  and  is  an  injury  to  the  equal
right of women. Not only does it impact her, it has a direct bearing on the workplace productivity
as  well  as  the  development  of  the  society.  Below  is  a  list  of  select  examples  of  such  negative
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
• Decreased work performance
• Increased absenteeism, loss of pay
• Loss of promotional opportunities
• Anxiety, panic attacks
• Traumatic stress
• Retaliation from the respondent, or
• Shame, guilt, self-blame
colleagues/ friends of the respondent
• Difficulty in concentrating
• Subjected to gossip and scrutiny at work
• Being objectified
• Becoming publicly sexualized
• Being ostracized
• Having to relocate
• Job and career consequences
• Weakened support network
• Fatigue, loss of motivation
• Personal Difficulties with time
• Eating disorders (weight loss or gain)
• Feeling betrayed and/or violated
• Feeling angry or violent towards the  respondent
• Feeling powerless
• Loss of confidence and self esteem
• Over all loss of trust in people
• Problems with intimacy
• Withdrawal and isolation
SEXUAL HARASSMENT IS A SUBJECTIVE EXPERIENCE
In  2010,  the  High  Court  of  Delhi  endorsed  the  view  that  sexual  harassment  is  a  subjective
experience  and  for  that  reason  held  “We  therefore  prefer  to  analyze  harassment  from  the
[complainant’s] perspective. A complete understanding of the [complainant’s] view requires...
an analysis of the different perspectives of men and women. Conduct that many men consider
unobjectionable may offend many women... Men tend to view some forms of sexual harassment
as  “harmless  social  interactions  to  which  only  overly-sensitive  women  would  object.  The
characteristically male view depicts sexual harassment as comparatively harmless amusement.
... Men, who are rarely victims of sexual assault, may view sexual conduct in a vacuum without
a full appreciation of the social setting or the underlying threat of violence that a woman may
Dr. Punita K. Sodhi v. Union of India & Ors. W.P. (C) 367/2009 & CMS 828, 11426/2009
On 9 September, 2010, in the High Court of Delhi
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
2.5   EXAMPLES OF BEHAVIOURS AND
SCENARIOS THAT CONSTITUE SEXUAL
Below  are  examples  of  behaviour  that  may  or
may not constitute workplace sexual harassment
in  isolation.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  important
to  remember  that  more  often  than  not,  such
in  cluster.  Distinguishing
between  these  different  possibilities  is  not  an
easy task and requires essential training and skill
Some examples of behaviour that constitute sexual harassment at the workplace:
1.  Making sexually suggestive remarks or innuendos.
2.  Serious or repeated offensive remarks, such as teasing related to a person’s body or appearance.
3.  Offensive comments or jokes.
Inappropriate questions, suggestions or remarks about a person’s sex life.
5.  Displaying sexist or other offensive pictures, posters, mms, sms, whatsapp, or e-mails.
Intimidation, threats, blackmail around sexual favours.
7.  Threats,  intimidation  or  retaliation  against  an  employee  who  speaks  up  about  unwelcome
behaviour with sexual overtones.
8.  Unwelcome social invitations, with sexual overtones commonly understood as flirting.
9.  Unwelcome sexual advances which may or may not be accompanied by promises or threats,
explicit or implicit.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
10.  Physical contact such as touching or pinching.
11.  Caressing, kissing or fondling someone against her will (could be considered assault).
12.  Invasion  of  personal  space  (getting  too  close  for  no  reason,  brushing  against  or  cornering
13.  Persistently asking someone out, despite being turned down.
14.  Stalking an individual.
15.  Abuse of authority or power to threaten a person’s job or undermine her performance against
16.  Falsely accusing and undermining a person behind closed doors for sexual favours.
17.  Controlling a person’s reputation by rumour-mongering about her private life.
Some  examples  of  behaviour  that  may  indicate  underlying  workplace  sexual  harassment  and
1.  Criticizing, insulting, blaming, reprimanding or condemning an employee in public.
2.  Exclusion from group activities or assignments without a valid reason.
3.  Statements damaging a person’s reputation or career.
4.  Removing areas of responsibility, unjustifiably.
Inappropriately giving too little or too much work.
6.  Constantly overruling authority without just cause.
7.  Unjustifiably monitoring everything that is done.
8.  Blaming an individual constantly for errors without just cause.
9.  Repeatedly singling out an employee by assigning her with demeaning and belittling jobs that
are not part of her regular duties.
10.  Insults or humiliations, repeated attempts to exclude or isolate a person.
11.  Systematically interfering with normal work conditions, sabotaging places or instruments of
12.  Humiliating a person in front of colleagues, engaging in smear campaigns.
13.  Arbitrarily taking disciplinary action against an employee.
14.  Controlling  the  person  by  withholding  resources  (time,  budget,  autonomy,  and  training)
necessary to succeed.
Some examples of workplace behaviours that may not constitute sexual harassment:
1.  Following-up on work absences.
2.  Requiring performance to job standards.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
3.  The normal exercise of management rights.
4.  Work-related stress e.g. meeting deadlines or quality standards.
5.  Conditions of works.
6.  Constructive feedback about the work mistake and not the person.
2.6 FORMS OF WORKPLACE SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Generally workplace sexual harassment refers to two common forms of inappropriate behaviour:
•  Quid Pro Quo (literally ‘this for that’)
Implied or explicit promise of preferential/detrimental treatment in employment
Implied or express threat about her present or future employment status
•  Hostile Work Environment
Creating a hostile, intimidating or an offensive work environment
Humiliating treatment likely to affect her health or safety
The  following  scenarios  have  been  constructed  as  examples  based  on  real  life  experiences  of
women  at  workplaces.  The  scenarios  attempt  to  build  an  understanding  of  the  two  types  of
workplace sexual harassment as prescribed by the Act i.e. quid pro quo and hostile environment.
The names in the following examples are fictional and in no way refer to any individual alive or
A. Examples of scenarios that constitute quid pro quo or ‘this for that’ type of sexual
harassment at the workplace:
SCENARIO EXAMPLE 1
Kamini  is  a  bright  young  team  leader  working  in  a  call  centre.  Known  to  be  forthright,  she  is
dedicated, hardworking and is a perfectionist.
Kamini  stays  back  at  work  late  one  evening  with  her  colleague  Ravi  to  complete  work  for  an
important presentation. Ravi offers to buy Kamini dinner and later drop her home since it’s been
a long day. After dinner, Ravi proposes to Kamini that he would like her to spend the night with
him. Kamini refuses politely but firmly and goes home. Next evening, Ravi repeats his request and
on Kamini’s refusal, threatens her that if she doesn’t give-in, he will tell everyone that she made a
pass at him.
What is Workplace ‘this for that’ Sexual Harassment?
In the above example, Ravi’s threat to Kamini that if she does not agree to his ‘request’ for a sexual
favour, he will in return smear her character at the workplace as a person who wants to use sexual
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
favours to her advantage constitutes quid pro quo form of sexual harassment. Ravi’s behaviour is
unwelcome, sexual, and has a negative impact on Kamini.
SCENARIO EXAMPLE 2
Renuka is employed as a domestic worker where she is expected to take care of all the household
activities, other than cooking. Most of the days, the lady of the
house leaves early. Renuka is therefore left alone in the house
with a male member of the household.
Renuka finds the male member constantly leering at her when
he is at home and often walks around the house wrapped in
nothing but a towel which makes her very uncomfortable. On
one occasion, while she was sweeping, he pinched her bottom.
When she protested that she will complain to the lady of the
house, he threatened to accuse her of stealing, and that he will
ensure that she loses her job.
What is Workplace Sexual Harassment?
In the above example, the male member by threatening Renuka to keep quiet about the unwelcome
physical  contact  if  she  wants  to  continue  with  her  employment  commits  quid  pro  quo  form  of
sexual harassment. His behaviour occurring in a matrix of power, is unwelcome, sexual and has a
negative impact on Renuka.
SCENARIO  EXAMPLE 3
Shamima is a lawyer who works as a researcher at an NGO in Delhi since 2013. Dr. Bhavan is the
director of the organisation and has always advocated for the cause of human rights.
During an official field visit to Shimla for 2 days, Dr. Bhavan finds an opportunity to be alone with
Shamima and makes a physical advance. Despite her protests, he forces himself on her while giving
lurid and sexually explicit details of his relationships, both past and present, with women. When
she chastises him and threatens to make his behaviour public, he threatens to destroy her career.
What is Workplace Sexual Harassment?
In  the  above  example,  by  threatening  Shamima  with  the  destruction  of  her  career,  Dr.  Bhavan
commits  quid  pro  quo  sexual  harassment.  His  physical  advances  and  sexual  conversation  are
unwelcome for Shamima and occur in a matrix of power.
B.  Examples  of  scenarios  that  constitute  a  ‘hostile  work  environment’  type  of  sexual
harassment at the workplace:
SCENARIO  EXAMPLE  1
Jayanthi works in a garment factory in Bangalore.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Varghese, Jayanthi’s supervisor, often tries to touch her on one or
the other pretext. For example, he adjusts her dupatta while she
is sewing at her workstation on the pretext of covering her back.
Jayanthi is very uncomfortable with his behaviour. Her colleagues
at the workplace ridicule Jayanthi and mock her for the ‘special
treatment’  by  her  supervisor.  They  often  gossip  about  her  and
is  a  Hostile  Workplace  Environment  Sexual
In  the  above  example,  the  physical  touching  by  Varghese  is
unwelcome and sexual in nature. The gossip, which is based on
Varghese’s behaviour towards Jayanthi at the workplace, is creating a hostile work environment
SCENARIO EXAMPLE 2
Sukhi is a daily wage labourer working at a construction site. Every day at lunch time, Sukhi sits
under the shade of the tree to feed her 16-month old baby. She finds Jaswinder, a worker, staring
at her from the distance. Sukhi feels uncomfortable and asks Jaswinder to stay away from her
while she’s feeding the baby. However, Jaswinder persists and always finds a place near her. The
group of fellow construction workers now constantly catcall and whistle at Sukhi every time  she
walks their way to refill the cement or mortar. When she questions them, they tell her they are
only joking amongst themselves.
What is a Hostile Workplace Environment Sexual Harassment?
Ogling,  stalking  and  gossiping  against  Sukhi  in  the  above  example  constitute  a  hostile  work
environment, a form of workplace sexual harassment.
SCENARIO  EXAMPLE 3
Sumedha is a Captain with the Indian Army. She has refused an offer made by a Senior Officer for a
relationship. Sumedha has kept quiet about this experience, but thanks to the rumour-mongering
by the Senior Officer, she has acquired a reputation of being a woman of ‘easy virtue’. Now she
is being subjected to repeated advances by three of her senior officer colleagues.  When she turns
around and protests, she is singled out for additional physical training.
What is a Hostile Workplace Environment Sexual Harassment?
In the above example, Sumedha’s refusal to the sexual advances of her Senior Officer, leads to
her being subjected to rumours, gossip, character assassination, unwelcome sexual advances by
other officers, and arbitrary disciplinary action. This constitutes Hostile Work Environment form of
workplace Sexual Harassment.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
SCENARIO  EXAMPLE 4
Asha is a researcher at a media agency led by Dr. Purshottam, a well-known journalist.
In the first few months of Asha’s employment, Dr. Purshottam is very pleased with her work and
publicly appreciates her. Soon after, Dr. Purshottam frequently summons Asha to his office on the
pretext of work and makes verbal sexual advances and sexually coloured remarks to her. He brushes
aside her protests by saying that they would not be able to work as a team unless she interacted
closely  with  him  and  they  both  got  to  know  each  other  well.  However,  once  she  categorically
rebuffed his sexual advances, he has stopped. Now he ridicules her work and humiliates her in the
presence of colleagues and the staff. He discriminates against her by allotting projects to her and
then arbitrarily withdrawing the work.
What is a Hostile Workplace Environment Sexual Harassment?
In the above example, the workplace actions are a result of Asha rebuffing the unwelcome, sexual
advances  of  Dr.  Purshottam  and  this  constitutes  hostile  work  environment  form  of  workplace
This section has listed and illustrated some of the behaviours that constitute the five parameters
of  workplace  sexual  harassment,  viz.,  sexual,  subjective,  unwelcome,  impact  and  power.  This
becomes the basis of the key elements of the Act, Prevention, Prohibition and Redress.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Prevention and Prohibition
“The  meaning  and  content  of  fundamental  rights  guaranteed  in  the
Constitution of India are of sufficient amplitudes to encompass all facets of
Late Justice J.S. Verma
This section describes those who are both responsible and accountable to prevent workplace
sexual harassment in compliance with the Act. It also highlights the role of workplaces in
prohibiting workplace sexual harassment through an effectively communicated policy.
3.1  PREVENTIVE AUTHORITIES
3.1.1 WHO IS AN EMPLOYER?
An employer refers to:
1.  The head of the department, organisation, undertaking, establishment, enterprise, institution,
office, branch or unit of the Appropriate Government or local authority or such officer specified
in this behalf.
2.  Any person (whether contractual or not) responsible for the management, supervision and
control of a designated workplace not covered under clause (i).
3.  A person or a household who employs or benefits from the employment of domestic worker
or women employees.
3.1.2 WHO IS AN APPROPROATE GOVERNMENT?
As per the Act, Appropriate Government means:
i.    In relation to a workplace which is established, owned, controlled or wholly or substantially
financed by funds provided directly or indirectly—
a.    By the Central Government or the Union Territory administration, the Central Government;
b.   By the State Government, the State Government;
ii.    In relation to any workplace not covered under sub-clause (i) and falling within its territory, the
3.2 WHO IS A DISTRICT OFFICER (DO)?
State  Governments  will  notify  a  District  Magistrate/Additional  District  Magistrate/  Collector/
Deputy Collector as a District Officer at the local level. The District Officer will be responsible for
carrying out the powers and functions under the Act at the district levels (including every block,
taluka, tehsil, ward, and municipality).
3.3 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AFOREMENTIONED AUTHORITIES
Under the law the employer/DO is obliged to create a workplace free of sexual harassment. It is
the responsibility of the Employer/District Officer in general to:
1.  Create and communicate a detailed policy;
2.  Ensure awareness and orientation on the issue;
3.  Constitute  Complaints  Committee/s  in  every  workplace  and  district  so  that  every  working
woman is provided with a mechanism for redress of her complaint(s);
4.  Ensure Complaints Committees are trained in both skill and capacity;
5.  Prepare an annual report and report to the respective state government;
6.  District Officer will also appoint a nodal officer to receive complaints at the local level.
3.2.1 Complaints Committee/s
The  Act  provides  for  two  kinds  of  complaints  mechanisms:  Internal  Complaints  Committee
(ICC) and Local Complaints Committee (LCC). All Complaints Committees must have 50 per cent
representation of women. ICC or LCC members will hold their position not exceeding three years
from the date of their nomination or appointment.
1) Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
Every employer is obliged to constitute an ICC through a written order. The ICC will be composed
of the following members:
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Women working at senior level as employee; if not available then
nominated from other office/units/ department/ workplace of the
From  amongst  employees  committed  to  the  cause  of  women/
having legal knowledge/experience in social work
From amongst NGO/associations committed to the cause of women
or a person familiar with the issue of Sexual Harassment
Where the office or administrative units of a workplace are located in different places, division or
sub-division, an ICC has to be set up at every administrative unit and office.
ICC/LCC ARE MANDATORY
The  employee  who  had  a  fundamental  right  to  a  workplace  free  of  sexual  harassment,  had
complained about sexual harassment. According to the Court, had the organisation complied
with the Vishaka Guidelines and set up such a Complaints Committee, the preventative benefit
would have been three-fold:
1.  Ensured a place where women employees could seek redress;
2.  Sent a clear message to the workplace that such complaints would be enquired into by a
specially designated committee with external expertise;
3.  Prevented a series of litigation that followed.
Hence, the Madras High Court awarded Rs. 1.68 crores in damages to an employee for the non-
constitution of a Complaints Committee by the employer, as per the Vishaka Guidelines (at the
time of the complaint, the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act 2013 had not been
Ms.  G  v.  ISG  Novasoft Technologies  Ltd.  Madras  High  Court  (Crl.R.C.No.370  of  2014  order  dated
02.09. 2014. Original Petition No.463 of 2012
2) Local Complaints Committee (LCC)
The District Officer will constitute an LCC in every district so as to enable women in the unorganised
sector or small establishments to work in an environment free of sexual harassment. The LCC will
1.  From women working in an organisation having less than 10 workers;
2.  When the complaint is against the employer himself;
3.  From domestic workers.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Nominated  from  amongst  the  eminent  women  in  the  field  of
social work and committed to the cause of women
Nominated  from  amongst  the  women  working  in  the  block,
taluka or tehsil or ward or municipality in the district
from  amongst  such  NGO/associations/persons
committed  to  the  cause  of  women  or  familiar  with  the  issues
relating to sexual harassment, provided that:
At least one must be a woman
At  least  one  must  have  a  background  of  law  or  legal
Ex Officio member
The concerned officer dealing with social welfare or women and
child development in the district
*One of the nominees shall be a woman belonging to the SC/ST/OBC/Minority community notified by the Central Government.
3) External Members on the Complaints Committee/s
The Act refers to external members, which generally means persons who have expertise with the
issue of sexual harassment. Given the largely intangible nature of workplace sexual harassment,
there are a range of complexities involved in responding effectively to workplace sexual harassment
complaints. For this reason, external third party/ members on the Complaints Committee/s (from
civil society or legal background) should possess the following attributes:
1.  Demonstrated  knowledge,  skill  and  capacity  in  dealing  with  workplace  sexual  harassment
2.  Sound grasp and practice of the legal aspects/implications.
Such expertise will greatly benefit Complaints Committees in terms of fair and informed handling
of complaints to lead to sound outcomes. These external third party members shall be paid for
their services on the Complaints Committees as prescribed.
Criteria for the External Member
A ‘person familiar with issues relating to women’ would mean such persons who have expertise
in issues related to sexual harassment and may include any of the following:
•  At least 5 years of experience as a social worker, working towards women’s empowerment
and in particular, addressing workplace sexual harassment;
•  Familiarity with labour, service, civil or criminal law.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
3.2.2 Sexual Harassment at Workplace Policy
Employers/District  Officers  are  responsible  for  complying  with  prohibition,  prevention  and
redress of workplace sexual harassment. In practice, this means having a policy that: (1) prohibits
unwelcome behaviour that constitutes workplace sexual harassment; (2) champions prevention
of workplace sexual harassment through orientation, awareness and sensitization sessions; and
(3) provides a detailed framework for redress.
3.2.3 Dissemination of Information and Awareness Generation
Employers/ District Officers have a legal responsibility to:
1.  Effectively  communicate  a  policy  that  prohibits  unwelcome  behaviour  that  constitutes
workplace sexual harassment, and provides a detailed framework for prevention, and redress
2.  Carry out awareness and orientation for all employees.
3.  Create  forums  for  dialogue  i.e.  Panchayati  Raj  Institutions,  Gram  Sabhas,  Women’s  Groups,
Urban Local Bodies or like bodies, as appropriate.
4.  Ensure capacity and skill building of Complaints Committees.
5.  Widely publicize names and contact details of Complaints Committee members.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
“...the  time  has  come  when  women  must  be  able  to  feel  liberated  and
emancipated  from  what  could  be  fundamentally  oppressive  conditions
against which an autonomous choice of freedom can be exercised and made
available by women. This is sexual autonomy in the fullest degree”
Late Chief Justice J.S. Verma, Justice Verma Committee Report, 2013
This section is about Redress. It provides helpful information on who can complain, to whom,
and what a complaint should contain. It also gives information and lays out the steps involved
when a complaint has reached the Complaints Committee, in terms of the process, findings
4.1 WHO CAN COMPLAIN AND WHERE?
Generally, where there are less than ten workers, any woman employee can complain to the Local
Complaints Committee with the support of the Nodal Officer, when required. It is the responsibility
of the District Officer to designate a person as the Nodal Officer in every block, taluka and tehsil
in rural or tribal areas and wards or municipalities in the urban areas, to receive the complaints
of workplace sexual harassment from women. The Nodal Officer will forward all such complaints
within seven days of its receipt to the concerned Complaints Committee for appropriate action.
In most other workplaces, a woman employee can make a complaint to the Internal Complaints
4.2 WHAT SHOULD THE COMPLAINT CONTAIN?
The written complaint should contain a description of each incident(s). It should include relevant
dates, timings and locations; name of the respondent(s); and the working relationship between the
parties. A person designated to manage the workplace sexual harassment complaint is required to
provide assistance in writing of the complaint if the complainant seeks it for any reason.
4.3 WHAT CAN AN EMPLOYEE/WORKER EXPECT?
When it comes to redress for workplace sexual harassment, employee/worker has a right to expect
-a  trained,  skilled  and  competent  Complaints  Committee,  a  time  bound  process,  information
confidentiality, assurance of non-retaliation, counselling or other enabling support where needed
and assistance if the complainant opts for criminal proceedings.
4.3 A. RIGHTS OF THE COMPLAINANT
•  An empathetic attitude from the Complaints Committee so that she can state her grievance in
a fearless environment
•  A copy of the statement along with all the evidence and a list of witnesses submitted by the
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
•  Keeping her identity confidential throughout the process
•  Support, in lodging FIR in case she chooses to lodge criminal proceedings
In case of fear of intimidation from the respondent, her statement can be recorded in absence
of the respondent
•  Right to appeal, in case, not satisfied with the recommendations/findings of the Complaints
4.3 B. RIGHTS OF THE RESPONDENT
•  A patient hearing to present his case in a non-biased manner
•  A copy of the statement along with all the evidence and a list of witnesses submitted by the
•  Keeping his identity confidential throughout the process
•  Right  to  appeal  in  case  not  satisfied  with  the  recommendations/findings  of  the  Complaints
4.4 KEY RESPONSIBILITIES
To effectively address workplace sexual harassment complaints, a Complaints Committees must
first be aware of their key responsibilities, some of which are highlighted below:
1.  Be thoroughly prepared
2.  Know the Act, Policy and/or relevant Service Rules
3.  Gather and record all relevant information
4.  Determine the main issues in the complaint
5.  Prepare relevant interview questions
6.  Conduct necessary interviews
7.  Ensure parties are made aware of the process and their rights/responsibilities within it
8.  Analyse information gathered
9.  Prepare the report with findings/recommendations
4.5 KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, TRAINING
Dealing  with  workplace  sexual  harassment  complaints  is  often  complex.  Hence  Complaints
Committee/s must possess critical skills/capacity to effectively carry out their role. That includes
a  sound  grasp  of  the  Act,  Vishaka  Guidelines,  applicable  Service  Rules,  relevant  laws  and  an
understanding of workplace sexual harassment and related issues. Complaints Committee skills
must include an ability to synthesise information i.e. relevant documents, the law and interviews.
They  should  also  be  able  to  communicate  effectively,  write  clearly,  listen  actively  and  conduct
interviews. They should be competent at showing empathy, being impartial and being thorough.
They should be able to identify sexual harassment and its impact.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
A Complaints Committee/s is required to be trained in both skill and capacity to carry out a fair and
informed inquiry into a complaint of workplace sexual harassment.  An absence of such training
will lead to unequal and unfair results, which can cost employers, employees, complainants as well
FAIR AND INFORMED INQUIRY
Within  6  months  of  joining  The  Statesman  newspaper,  Rina  Mukerhjee  lost  her  job.  While
the company alleged that her work was “tardy” and “lacking in quality” it suppressed Rina’s
complaint  of  sexual  harassment  against  the  news  coordinator,  Ishan  Joshi.  Within  her  first
month  of  work,  Rina  had  taken  her  complaint  directly  to  the  Managing  Director,  Ravinder
Kumar. Time passed, nothing happened and Rina was fired. In a rare display of social context
insight  and  clarity,  the  Industrial  Tribunal  (West  Bengal)  rejected  the  Statesman’s  claim  that
Rina only referred to “professional” harassment in her complaint to Mr. Kumar. In the Tribunal’s
view, Mr. Kumar’s failure to dig deeper was clearly suspect- “... it becomes clear that there was
no Committee on Sexual Harassment, as per the Honb’le Supreme Court’s direction in Vishaka
vs  State  of  Rajasthan,  existing  in  The  Statesman,  at  that  relevant  time.  ...to  expect-the  lady
workman to file a written complaint and not to believe the same, when it has been filed ‘at a
later date’ is sheer bias.” The Statesman was ordered to reinstate Rina and grant her full back
M/s The Statesmen Ltd. and Smt. Rina Mukherjee. Order of K.K. Kumai, Judge, dated 06.02.2013,
Fourth Industrial Labour Tribunal (West Bengal)
4.6 DO’S AND DON’TS FOR COMPLAINTS COMMITEE
1.  Create an enabling meeting environment.
2.  Use  body
language  that  communicates
complete attention to the parties.
3.  Treat the complainant with respect.
4.  Discard pre-determined ideas.
5.  Determine the harm.
1.  Get aggressive.
Insist  on  a  graphic  description  of  the  sexual
4.  Discuss the complaint in the presence of the
complainant or the respondent.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
4.7 NON-NEGOTIABLES DURING THE INQUIRY PROCESS
During a redress process the Complaints Committee/s are required to assure confidentiality, non-
retaliation and recommend interim measures as needed to conduct a fair inquiry.
4.8 THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMPLAINT PROCESS
The Complaints Committee/s needs to have information on the six stages (including fifteen steps),
detailed below, for addressing a complaint of workplace sexual harassment.
STAGE ONE: RECEIPT OF THE COMPLAINT
A  fair,  prompt,  and  impartial  inquiry  process  starts  with  a  Complaints  Committee  capable  of
creating an environment of trust and confidence throughout the inquiry.
Step 1 : Receive and Acknowledge Receipt of the Complaint
The complainant submits a sexual harassment complaint in writing within three months of the last
alleged incident to the Complaints Committee or any other person designated by the organization/
District Officer (i.e. Nodal Officer) to receive and manage complaints of sexual harassment.
Training and Skill Building : An Institutional Responsibility
It is important that both the Committee and any other person designated by the organization/
District Officer to receive or otherwise handle a sexual harassment complaint has there quired
competency and skill building training formanaging a complaint and/or any concern related to
workplace sexual harassment.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Upon receipt, the complaint should be reviewed for:
In the context of workplace that the sexual harassment complaint is to be met with under the
Act, such as, Service Rules, Workplace Policy, Vishaka Guidelines and related laws.
2.  Clarity in the complaint.
3.  Additional information needed from the complainant.
The complainant will be notified in writing to acknowledge receipt.
Step 2: Meet and Talk to the Complainant to Explore Options for Formal and Informal Resolution
The  complainant  needs  to  be  informed  about  the  ensuing  process  and  the  informal  or  formal
options available for the redress.
Step 3: Informal Mechanism
If  the  complainant  chooses  to  adopt  the  informal  process  to  resolve  her  complaint/experience
of workplace sexual harassment, then it is the responsibility of the person designated to receive
and manage the Complaints Committee to explore enabling ways to address the complaint. This
can  include  counselling,  educating,  orienting,  or  warning  the  respondent  to  promptly  stop  the
unwelcome behaviour or appointing a neutral person to act as a conciliator between the parties
to resolve the complaint through conciliation.
However,  before  recommending  conciliation,  the  Committee  must  assess  the  severity  of  the
situation and if necessary, advise and enable the complainant to opt for the formal route. At no
point, the Complaints Committee will advise the complainant to resolve the matter directly with
the respondent. Where such an informal process is successful, such resolution is to be recorded
by  the  conciliator  and    forwarded  to  the  ICC/LCC  who  in  turn  will  forward  the  same  to  the
employer/District  Officer  for  further  action  based  on  the  resolution.  Employers/District  Officers
are responsible for taking steps to ensure that the complainant is not subject to any backlash.
The  choice  of  a  formal  process  rests  with  the  complainant  even  if  the  person  responsible  for
managing the complaint believes that this can be resolved through an informal process.
Step 4: Formal Mechanism
If the complainant opts for formal redress, or the nature of the complaint is serious which calls
for formal redress, then the Complaints Committee responds to the complaint.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
2.  Complaints  Committee/s  members  must  be  free  of  any  conflict  of  interest  with  either  the
concerned parties or with the outcome.
3.  Ensure that the independent third party member has sound knowledge, skill, and experience
in dealing with workplace sexual harassment complaints.
Step 5: Respondent and Response
1.  As per the procedure provided in the Service Rule; or in absence of the same
2.  Within  seven  days  of  receiving  a  complaint,  the  Complaints  Committee  will  inform  the
respondent in writing that a complaint has been received.
3.  The respondent will have an opportunity to respond to the complaint in writing within ten days
STAGE TWO: PLANNING CAREFULLY
Step 6: Prepare the File
A sound inquiry relies on sound preparation. This includes taking into account the following steps:
Create an independent confidential file of the complaint and all subsequent related documentation.
2.  Review Law & Policy
Have a clear knowledge and understanding of the Act/Rules as well as the relevant Service Rules,
Workplace Policy, Vishaka Guidelines, existing practices and related laws.
3.  Make a List
Make a list of all the dates and events relating to the written complaint as well as the names of
witnesses, where applicable.
The complaint may include the names of people believed to have witnessed the alleged incidents
or those who may have been aware of other information directly related to the complaint. The
respondent may also include the names of witnesses. In addition, the  C o m p l a i n t s  Committee
also has the discretion to call any person as a witness, who it believes, has something to contribute
to the inquiry process.
4.  Supporting Documents
Obtain  and  review  all  supporting  documents  relevant  to  the  complaint,  including  those
presented by the complainant and the respondent.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
5.  Act Quickly
Create a plan. This can be used as an initial checklist to ensure that all of the critical elements
are covered. It includes:
The names of the parties and witnesses to be interviewed
Any documentary support that needs to be examined
Preparing the Plan - Key Elements to Consider
1.	 Defining	the	Issues
What is the complaint
Questions or points that require clarification
2.  Determining a violation of the Policy/Act
What information is needed to determine that there has been a violation
Venue for conducting the interviews. Are special logistics required
Creating timelines for each
4.  Critical Information
What documents need to be looked at
Witnesses to be questioned and in what order
5.  Areas of Questioning
Questions for each specific incident and party/witness
Questions for each particular issue
Issues likely to require follow-up
Step 7: Consideration
1.  Interim Measures
While a complaint is pending inquiry, a complainant can make a written request for her transfer or
the transfer of the respondent, or for leave (upto 3 months). She can also request the Complaints
Committee  to  restrain  the  respondent  from  reporting  on  her  work  performance  or  writing  her
confidential report or supervising her academic activities (in case she is in educational institution).
Even in the absence of such a request, the Complaints Committee must take corrective action. It is
essential to take these actions in order to prevent potential ongoing sexual harassment.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Maintain  clear,  timely  communication  with  the  parties  throughout  the  process.  Provide
complainants with any specific assistance they may require, such as counselling, addressing health-
related concerns or sanctioning of leave.
STAGE THREE: INTERVIEWS
Step 8: Prepare an Interview Plan for the Hearing: Complainant, Witnesses, Respondent
1.  Based on the results of the previous steps and before conducting interviews, the Complaints
Committee should decide which issues need to be pursued for questioning.
Interviews are meant to obtain information that is relevant to the complaint from individuals.
Interviews should be conducted with each person separately and in confidence. The complainant
and the respondent should not be brought face to face with each other.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Step 9: Assess the Completeness of the Information Collected
At this stage, the Complaints Committee should review the information gathered and their factual
relevance  to  each  aspect  of  the  complaint.  This  will  help  determine  whether  there  is  enough
information to make a finding on the complaint.
STAGE FOUR: REASONING
Step 10: Once the information and review is complete, the Complaints Committee will make its
reasoned finding(s), which involves having to:-
Identify the substance of each aspect of the complaint.
•  Determine, whether or not, on a balance of probability, the unwelcome sexual harassment
•  Check that such behaviour/conduct falls within the definition of sexual harassment set out in
the relevant Act/Rules, Policy, Service Rules or law.
•  Comment on any underlying factor(s) that may have contributed to the incident.
Step 11: Create a timeline to help establish the sequence of events related to the complaint.
Step  12:  Compare  similarities  and  differences  within  each  of  the  statements  made  by  the
STAGE FIVE: FINDING AND RECOMMENDATION
Step 13: Finding
Based on the above, the Complaints Committee must arrive at a finding of whether the complaint
is upheld, not upheld or inconclusive.
Provided, where both the parties are employees, before finalising the findings, the ICC/LCC shall
share its finding with both the parties and provide them an opportunity to make representation
against it before the Committee.
Step 14: Recommendations
Based on its findings, the Complaints Committee shall then make appropriate recommendations
which may include:
1.  Where the Complaints Committee is unable to uphold the complaint, it shall recommend no
2.  Where  the  Complaints  Committee  upholds  the  Complaint,  it  may  recommend  such  action
as  stated  within  the  relevant  Policy  or  Service  Rules,  which  may  include  a  warning  to
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
In case service rules do not exist, recommended action may include:
•  Disciplinary action, including a written apology, reprimand, warning, censure;
•  Withholding promotion/ pay raise/ increment;
•  Community service.
3. The Complaints Committee may also recommend financial damages to the complainant, while
deciding the amount they shall take into consideration:
•  Mental trauma, pain, suffering and emotional distress caused;
•  Medical expenses incurred;
•  Loss of career opportunity;
Income and financial status of the respondent.
If the amount is not paid it can be recovered as an arrear of land revenue.
4. The Complaints Committee can also give additional recommendations to address the underlying
factors contributing to sexual harassment at the workplace.
STAGE SIX: REPORT
Step 15: Writing the Report
The Complaints Committee will prepare a final report that contains the following elements:
•  A description of the different aspects of the complaint;
•  A description of the process followed;
•  A  description  of  the  background  information  and  documents  that  support  or  refute  each
aspect of the complaint;
•  An analysis of the information obtained;
•  Findings as stated above;
An	inquiry	must	be	completed	within	90	days	and	a	final	report	submitted	to	the	Employer	or
District	Officer	(as	the	case	may	be)	within	ten	days	thereafter.	Such	report	will	also	be	made
available	 to	 the	 concerned	 parties.	 The	 Employer	 or	 District	 Officer	 is	 obliged	 to	 act	 on	 the
recommendations within 60 days. Any person not satisfied with the findings or recommendations
of the Complaints Committee or non-implementation of the recommendations, may appeal in an
appropriate court or tribunal, as prescribed under the Service Rules or where no such service rules
exist, in such manner as may be prescribed.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Given that most workspaces today are gender unequal and male-dominated, it is important that
complaints  by  women  be  treated  fairly  and  not  dismissed.  The  mere  inability  to  substantiate  a
complaint  or  provide  adequate  proof  will  not  attract  legal  action  against  the  complainant.
However, making a false or malicious complaint or producing a forged or misleading document is an
4.9 AT A GLANCE
1)  Complaints Committee’s Checklist
•	 Review the written complaints and response to complaints
•	 Review the applicable policy, the Act/Rules, Vishaka Guidelines and other relevant laws
•	 Develop a plan
•	 Meet with the complainant
•	 Meet with the respondent
•	 Meet with the witnesses
•	 Record statements and have them dated and signed
•	 Review and adapt the plan, as needed
•	 Proceed with further interviews, as needed
•	 Analyze all the facts to develop reasoning
•	 Arrive at the findings
•	 Give recommendations
•	 Prepare the report
•	 Submit  the  file  to  the  organization  or  District  Officer  for  implementation  of  the
recommendations and for safe keeping.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
INQUIRY PROCESS AT A GLANCE
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
2) Timelines as per the Act
Submission of Complaint
Within 3 months of the last incident
Notice to the Respondent
Within 7 days of receiving copy of the complaint
Completion of Inquiry
Within 90 days
Submission of Report by ICC/LCC to
Within  10  days  of  completion  of
Implementation of Recommendations
Within 60 days
Within 90 days of the recommendations
The Act prohibits the publication or making known the contents of a complaint and the inquiry
proceedings. Any breach of confidentiality will result in specific consequences.
The Act prohibits the disclosure of:
•  Contents of the complaint;
Identity  and  address  of  complainant,  respondent  and  witnesses;  Information  pertaining  to
conciliatory/inquiry proceedings or recommendations of the ICC/LCC;
•  Action taken by the employer/DO.
Accountability: Any person entrusted with the duty to handle or deal with the complaint, inquiry
or any recommendations or action taken under the provisions of this Act.
Consequences: As per the Service Rules or Rs.5,000/ to be collected by the employer.
Exception: Dissemination of information regarding the justice secured without disclosure of name,
address, identity and particulars of complainant or witnesses.
Section  4  completes  the  details  of  the  Complaints  Committee  process  in  addressing  formal
complaints. It serves as a guideline to action in providing appropriate redress. The manner in which
a complaint is addressed will make all the difference to the equal rights of working women as well
as the kind of workplace culture being promoted.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
“Vishaka was a victory for all women”
This  section  refers  to  ways  in  which  application  of  the  Act  at  all  workplaces  is  monitored.
Monitoring is a way to ensure compliance of the Act on the ground. As an additional means
of monitoring, the Act mandates the submission of Annual Reports with specific information
as well as specific consequences where compliance is lacking.
The Act authorizes Appropriate Government to monitor the implementation of the Act. As per the
Act, Appropriate Government means:
i.     In relation to a workplace which is established, owned, controlled or wholly or substantially
financed by funds provided directly or indirectly-
a.    By the Central Government or the Union Territory administration, the Central Government;
b.   By the State Government, the State Government;
ii.     In relation to any workplace not covered under sub-clause (i) and falling within its territory, the
Thus to monitor the Act, the Appropriate Government has the authority to undertake any of the
In relation to workplace sexual harassment, when it is in the public interest or in the interest of
women employees, every employer/District Officer can be ordered by the Appropriate Government
i.e.    State  and  Central  Government,  to  make  available  any  information,  record  or  document,
including opening its workplace for inspection relating to the same.
5.2 Annual Report
The Appropriate Government is entrusted with the monitoring of the implementation of this Act
and for maintaining the data on the number of cases filed and disposed of under it.  In particular,
the Act mandates submission of an Annual Report by the ICC/LCC to the employer/District Officer.
The  District  Officer  will  forward  a  brief  report  on  the  annual  reports  to  the  appropriate  State
Government. Such reports must include the following information:
a.  No. of complaints received;
b.  No. of complaints disposed of;
c.  No. of cases pending for more than 90 days;
d.  No. of workshops/awareness programmes carried out;
e.  Nature of action taken by the employer/DO;
The Report of ICC will be forwarded to the DO through the employer.
An employer can be subjected to a penalty of up to INR 50,000 for:
•  Failure to constitute Internal Complaints Committee
•  Failure to act upon recommendations of the Complaints Committee; or
•  Failure to file an annual report to the District Officer where required; or
•  Contravening or attempting to contravene or abetting contravention of the Act or Rules.
Where an employer repeats a breach under the Act, they shall be subject to:
•  Twice the punishment or higher punishment if prescribed under any other law for the same
•  Cancellation/Withdrawal/Non-renewal of registration/license required for carrying on business
Monitoring  is  a  critical  yardstick  to  measure  success  in  terms  of  compliance  with  the  Act.
Additionally, it highlights those areas, in terms of law and practice, which may require improvement
and/or additional information and guidance at both the State as well as the workplace levels.
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Global Norms and Good Practices
Increasing awareness and compliance with international standards is a reminder that we must not
lose sight of the goal. Over the years, the international community has developed benchmarks
that provide guidance on what the laws around workplace sexual harassment should look like in
practice. The key benchmarks are listed below:
1.  Recognition that workplace sexual harassment is a form of human rights violation. i
2.  Recognition that sexual harassment is a form of gender-specific violence.ii
3.  Equality, dignity and worth of a human person must be emphasized.
4.  Gender-based violence includes sexual harassment and impairs the enjoyment by women of
several basic human rights and fundamental freedoms.iii Some of these rights include:
The right to life, the right to liberty and security of the person.
The right to equal protection under the law.
The right to the highest standard attainable of physical and mental health.
The right to just and favourable conditions of work.iv
5.  Eliminating violence against women and advancing women’s equality includes the right to be
free from workplace sexual harassment.v
6.  Legislation on violence against women should define violence to include sexual harassment.
Such  legislation  should  also  recognize  sexual  harassment  as  a  form  of  discrimination  and  a
violation of women's rights with health and safety consequences.vi
7.  The  International  Labour  Organization  (ILO)  has  also  drawn  specific  attention  to  domestic
workers, who have a right to “enjoy effective protection against all forms of abuse, harassment
and violence.” vii
In terms of practice, international law and policy frameworks have an important role to play in
encouraging  the  adoption  of  an  understanding  of  sexual  harassment  as  a  fundamental  human
right and equality issue, and not just a problem for labour/employment law to solve.
Converting these concepts into practice involves constant monitoring and adapting to changing
circumstances. As a start, six simple steps to keep in mind and practice in any workplace should
involve the following:
1.  Make sure there is a policy that has been “effectively” communicated to all workers, irrespective
of whether they are paid or volunteers.
2.  Display details of both informal and formal ways available to a worker to address/complain
about workplace sexual harassment.
3.  Undertake  orientation  on  workplace  sexual  harassment  for  all  workers  in  respective
organizations, establishments or institutions.
4.  A Complaints Committee which is trained in terms of skill and capacity is critical for building
5.  Encourage senior persons/leaders/supervisors or any person who can influence employment-
related decisions, to become role models.
6.  Men and women should be included in building a culture which no longer tolerates workplace
Legally, workplace sexual harassment can no longer be dismissed as some moral transgression.
The  Vishaka  Guidelines  raised  that  bar,  when  for  the  first  time  it  recognized  “each  incident  of
sexual harassment” as a violation of the fundamental right to equality. That notion has found its
way into the Act, which promotes the right of women as citizens to a workplace free of sexual
harassment. Complaints Committees at all workplaces are now charged with the role to ensure
that the right remains intact, through a fair, informed, user-friendly process of redress.
Prioritising  prevention  and  establishing  a  redress  mechanism,  which  comprises  of  50  per  cent
women, a woman chair and an external third party expert, is India’s innovative model in responding
to  working  women’s  experience  of  sexual  harassment.  Assuming  adequate  changes  follow,
in both law and practice to  meet global benchmarks, that model can evolve  into an exemplary
best practice. To get there, workplaces in India today, must rise to the requirement of promoting
i  General Recommendation 12 of 1989, Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
ii  General Recommendation 19 of 1992, Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW).
iv  Article 3, Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women, 1993.
v The Beijing Platform of Action drawn at the United Nations’ Women’s Conference in Beijing in 1995.
vi United Nations UN Division for the Advancement of Women Handbook for Legislation on Violence Against Women (UN Handbook).
vii  Article 5, ILO Decent Work for Domestic Workers Convention, 2011 (No. 189).
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Towards a new dawn
Government of India
Ministry of Women and Child Development