BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
BRICS NUs: WATER RESOURCES AND
POLLUTION TREATMENT [WRPT-21]
6th-8th July, 2021
NIT DURGAPUR                     IIT KANPUR
Page 1 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
DETAILS OF THE INAUGURATION SESSION
PROGRAMME : DETAILS OF THE ACADEMIC SESSION
ABOUT THE CONFERENCE
ABOUT THE ORGANIZER
ABOUT THE ORGANIZING INSTITUTE
HISTORY AND OBJECTIVES OF THE BRICS NETWORK UNIVERSITY
ABOUT THE BRICS ITG : WATER RESOURCES AND
SOME OF THE ACTIVITIES OF NIT DURGAPUR UNDER
BRICS  STI  FRAMEWORK
LIST OF THE REGISTERED PARTICIPANTS
SOME STATISTICS ABOUT THE REGISTERED PARTICIPANTS
Page 2 of 124
DETAILS OF THE INAUGURATION SESSION
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Position and Affiliation
Dr. Hirok Chaudhuri
Introduction to the theme of the
SPoC BRICS, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India;
Member of NCC (BRICS-India);
Member of ITG (BRICS NUs);
Associate Professor, Department of Physics and
Center for Research on Environment and Water
National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Prof. Y. M. Joshi
Prof. Anupam Basu
Prof. Abhay Karandikar
Prof. Faizal Bux
BRICS ITG: Water Resources
and Pollution Treatment
Prof. Vinod Tare
Title of the Talk: “Arth Ganga”
– River Conservation
Synchronised Development: A
Key Concept in Managing
River Basins and Water
Dr. Supriya Pal
Vote of thanks
Dean of International Relations,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, India
BRICS NUs ITG Chair Professor
Institute for Water and Wastewater Technology,
Durban University of Technology, South Africa
Former BRICS NUs ITG Chair Professor,
Professor, Department of Civil Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
Member of ITG (BRICS NUs);
Associate Professor, Department of Civil Engineering,
National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
BREAK – 17:05-17:15 (10 minutes)
Page 3 of 124
PROGRAMME : DETAILS OF THE ACADEMIC SESSION
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Title of the Talk
Country   Page No.
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
Prof. Vinod Tare, Former BRICS NUs ITG Chair Professor, Professor, Department of Civil
DAY-1 (July 6, 2021)
Title of the Talk: “Arth Ganga” – River Conservation Synchronised Development: A Key Concept in Managing River
Basins and Water Resources
Chairperson : Dr. Supriya Pal, Associate Professor, Department of Civil Engineering,
National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India,
Prof. Faizal Bux
Application of wastewater based epidemiology
for monitoring of covid19 infections : A South
Photocatalysis for wastewater treatment:
engineering consideration and perspectives
Adapting green and blue infrastructure to the
built environment: benefits, perspectives and
Chairperson : Prof. Faizal Bux,
Director, Institute for Water and Wastewater Technology,
Durban University of Technology, South Africa,
Study on distribution and treatment of typical
antibiotics in Poyang Lake Basin, China
18:40-18:50  CT 1
Assessing spatial distribution of COVID-19
prevalence in Brazil using decentralised sewage
Microbial interaction with microplastic in water
and wastewater environments
Highly porous silicotitaniumphosphate material
and its application for toxic ion adsorption from
Dr. Jiale Li
Dr. Nabanita Pal
Chairperson : Prof. Nilo Nascimento,
Professor, Department of Hydraulic and Water Resources Engineering
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil,
Environmental Geotechnics: Some Case Studies  Dr. Supriya Pal
Geochemical patterns of migration of trace
elements in soil waters of the Valday Upland
Mapping of Groundwater Quality and
Consumption Pattern of a Community
Development Block of Jharkhand State in India
Identification of geosystem services to attenuate
water pollution as a counter to water scarcity
A case study on the Transboundary River Bank
Management of Asia
Chairperson : Prof. Kalyan Adhikari, HOD,
DAY-2 (July 7, 2021)
Page 4 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Department of Earth and Environmental Studies, NIT, Durgapur,
The effects of velocity-dependent dispersion on
Modelling of Jojari river in semi-arid western
Rajasthan, India using the geospatial techniques
and 1D flow model analysis
Spatiotemporal distribution and sources of
inorganic nitrogen in shallow groundwater of
Poyang Lake Basin, China
Wastewater beneficiation using algal biomass
Threatened water supply reservoirs: monitoring
and modelling tools to support sustainable
Radioactive survey on waterbodies of Durgapur
industrial city, India
Dr. Yihui Dong
Dr. Talita Silva
BREAK – 17:10-17:20 (10 minutes)
Chairperson : Prof. Pathik Kumbhakar,
Dean Academic Research, NIT, Durgapur,
Professor, Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India,
Impact of climate change on water resources in
s semi-arid river basin: Management options
and adaptation strategies
Simulation of secondary mineral formation from
water of Obskoye fen affected by municipal
Hydrological perspectives on rainfall-runoff
models and remote sensing applications driven
by environmentally integrated basin
experiments in Brazil
Chairperson : Prof. Kashyap Dubey
Associate Professor, School of Biotechnology,
Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India,
Assessment of various coastal hazards and their
management plan in the lower Gangetic delta,
Sagar Island, West Bengal, India
Application of Biofilm reactor in the treatment
of swine wastewater
Dr. Zebing Li
Health risk assessment  of toxic heavy metals in
waterbodies of Durgapur Steel city, India
Fate and removal of antibiotics and poly
aromatic hydrocarbons in constructed wetland: a
numerical modeling approach
Derivation of flow duration curve for prediction
of hydropower generation potential: A case
study from Southern Africa
Dr. G Ndhlovu
Chairperson : Prof. R. N. Saha, Professor, HOD,
Department of Chemistry, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India,
Synthesis of triphase mesoporous TiO2
photocatalyst for degradation of organic
pollutants in wastewater
Towards groundwater monitoring  using
satellite and ground-based observations in
A Runoff Simulation Model for Lower Gangetic
Plain of India.
Page 5 of 124
DAY-3 (July 8, 2021)
16:00-17:15  BRICS ITG Meeting (only for the members of the ITG)
Chairperson: Prof. Faizal Bux, BRICS ITG Chair,
Director, Institute for Water and Wastewater Technology,
Durban University of Technology, South Africa
BREAK – 17:15-17:30 (15 minutes)
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Chairperson : Dr. Evgeniya Soldatova, Senior Researcher,
Vernadsky Institute of Geochemistry and Analytical Chemistry of RAS, Moscow,
Photo-catalytic membrane separator-reactor for
cleaning persistent contaminants in wastewater
Atmospheric profile evaluation using
radiosondes and MODIS satellite products over
the city of Rio de Janeiro - RJ - Brazil
COVID 19: Blessings or hazard to the water
Dr. Trina Dutta
Chairperson : Prof. Ajit Kumar Meikap,
Dean Research and Consultancy, NIT, Durgapur,
Professor, Department of Physics, NIT Durgapur, India,
Strategies for treatment of hospital wastewater
using integrated technology
Removal of Chromium (VI) from Aqueous
Solution Using Low Cost Bio-Adsorbents  :  A
comparison on performances,  Isotherms and
Comparative study of water analysis kits for
evaluating fluoride removal using Potash Alum
modified salty clay ceramic filters in Pali
district, Rajasthan, India
Prof. Radha Das
Chairperson : Dr. Mrinal Kanti Mandal, Associate Professor,
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India,
Water scarcity challenges & alternative
Climate Change and its impact in occurrences of
droughts and floods, threat to water
conservation and right to life – A study with
special reference to India
Defluoridation of Water using Ion-Exchange
Managing the Blue Gold: A study of the Water-
Energy-Food Nexus in Indus River
19:40-20:15  Valedictory Session:
Chairperson : Dr. Hirok Chaudhuri, Associate Professor,
Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Page 6 of 124
ABOUT THE CONFERENCE
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
In recent time BRICS nations are facing a crisis on freshwater resources and also dealing with water
pollution. Water must be treated and supplied according to usage with a focus on economic efficiency
and  environmental  sustainability.  Against  this  backdrop,  an  International  Conference  has  been
organized. The conference will see a convergence of renowned experts and research students from
BRICS  countries.  Researchers  will  deliberate  and  discuss  various  water-related  issues.  The
conference  will  provide  an  interactive  platform  for  enormous  brainstorming  and  sharing  path
breaking  ideas  for  sustainable  water  resources  management  and  pollution  treatment.  This  is  a
continuation of the series of conferences related to BRICS ITG held at (i) Ural Federal University in
Yekaterinburg,  Russia  in  2016  (ii)  National  Research  University  Higher  School  of  Economics,
Moscow, Russia in 2016, (iii) Hohai University, China in 2018, (iv) Stellenbosch University, South
Africa in 2018.
  Water Scarcity Challenges Ahead
  Surface and Ground Water Management
  Extreme Climate Event-Drought and Flood
  River basin management
  IoT enabled water resource management system
  Water Supply and Treatment
  Clean Water
  Wastewater Treatment Technology
  New materials for wastewater treatment
  Mathematical modelling related to water resource management
  Waste Containment Structures for water resource management
  Wastewater based epidemiology and Covid-19
Page 7 of 124
ABOUT THE ORGANIZER
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
  Prof. Anupam Basu, Director, NIT Durgapur
  Prof. Abhay Karandikar, Director, IIT Kanpur
  Dr. Hirok Chaudhuri, Department of Physics, NIT, Durgapur and Centre for Research on Environment
and Water, NIT, Durgapur
  Prof. Y. M. Joshi, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Kanpur and Dean, International Relations,
  Dr. Supriya Pal, Department of Civil Engineering, NIT, Durgapur
  Dr. Mrinal Kanti Mandal, Department of Chemical Engineering, NIT Durgapur
  Dr. Soumen Basu, Department of Physics, NIT Durgapur
  Prof. Rajnarayan Saha, HOD, Department of Chemistry,   NIT Durgapur and
Coordinator, Centre for Research on Environment and Water, NIT, Durgapur
  Prof. Nilotpal Banerjee, Dean, Alumni Affairs and Outreach, NIT, Durgapur
  Prof. Ajit Kumar Meikap, Dean Research and Consultancy, NIT, Durgapur
  Prof. Pathik Kumbhakar, Dean Academic Research, NIT, Durgapur
  Prof. Amiya Kumar Samanta, HOD, Department of Civil Engineering, NIT, Durgapur
  Prof. Kalyan Adhikari, HOD, Department of Earth and Environmental Studies, NIT, Durgapur
  Prof. Gopinath Halder, HOD, Department of Chemical Engineering, NIT Durgapur
  Dr. Sukadev Sahoo, HOD, Department of Physics, NIT Durgapur
  Prof. Sachchida Nand Tripathi, HOD, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Kanpur
  Prof. Indra Sekhar Sen, Department of Earth Science, IIT Kanpur
  Prof. Chunendra K Sahu, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Kanpur
Page 8 of 124
International Advisory Committee
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
  Prof.  Nilo  Nascimento,  Professor,  Department  of  Hydraulic  and  Water  Resources  Engineering,
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil
  Prof.  Otto  Corrêa  Rotunno  Filho,  Professor,  Civil  Engineering  Program,  COPPE/UFRJ,  Federal
University of Rio de Janeiro
  Dr.  Evgeniya  Soldatova,  Senior  Researcher,  Vernadsky  Institute  of  Geochemistry  and  Analytical
Chemistry of RAS, Moscow
  Dr. Natalia Guseva, Professor, Division for Geology, Tomsk Polytechnic University, Russia
  Prof. Y. M. Joshi, Dean of International Relations, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
  Prof. Vinod Tare, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,
  Dr. Supriya Pal, Associate Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology
  Dr.  Hirok  Chaudhuri,  Associate  Professor,  Department  of  Physics  and  Center  for  Research  in
Environment and Water, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
  Prof. Zhanxue Sun, East China University of Technology, China
  Prof. Shengji Li, Director of BRICS University Affairs Office, Ural Institute of NCWU, North China
University of Water Resources and Electric Power, China
  Prof.  Yiping  Li,  Director,  Department  of  Environmental  Science,  College  of  Environment,  Hohai
  Prof.  Faizal  Bux,  Director,  Institute  for  Water  and  Wastewater  Technology,  Durban  University  of
Technology, South Africa
  Prof. Yali Woyessa, Central University of Technology, South Africa
Page 9 of 124
ABOUT THE ORGANIZING INSTITUTE
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
National Institute of Technology Durgapur:
NIT Durgapur is an academic institute of national importance under the Ministry of Education, Govt. of
India. It was established in 1960 as Regional Engineering College at Durgapur, West Bengal state and
converted to NIT in 2002 under an act of the Parliament of India. It hosts several engineering, science,
disciplines  for  UG,  PG  and  Ph  D
students  from  India  and  abroad.
NIT Durgapur is a partner institute
of  BRICS  Network  University
under  the  thematic  area  “Water
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur:
Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, established in 1959, is one of the premier institutions established
by the Government of India. The aim of the Institute is to provide meaningful education, conduct original
research  of  the  highest  standard  and  to  provide  leadership  in  technological  innovation.  The  globally
acclaimed education at IIT Kanpur prepares the Indian students and international students for exciting
careers all over the world. The education develops a critical thinking led approach and imparts knowledge
management and humanities fields
to  solve  problems  that  challenge
humanity.  Researchers  at
Kanpur do cutting edge research in
their  area.  There  is  great  synergy
between  the  fundamental  research
and applied research done at IITK.
Its  alumni  and  faculty  have  won
many international awards.
Page 10 of 124
HISTORY AND OBJECTIVES OF
THE BRICS NETWORK UNIVERSITY
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
For historical, economic, and political
reasons,  the  universities  of  BRICS
countries  have  not  yet  developed
strong  collaboration.  Trying  to  cover
this  gap,  the  Ministries  of  Education
of  BRICS  countries  implemented  in
2015 the BRICS Network University
Involving some of the top universities in the five BRICS countries, the objectives of this network are:
in the short term, enhance the academic collaboration between universities of the five countries through
joint-researches and mobility of students and scholars;
in  the middle-term,  create joint  Graduate programs  issuing diplomas that will be valid for the  five
countries, and prepare high-qualified staff for the BRICS multilateral institutions;
in the long-term, enhance scientific development according to the necessities of non-central countries;
in this sense, it may contribute to “reshaping the world knowledge”. BRICS NU is organized in six
strategic axes (https://nu-brics.ru):
  BRICS studies
  Computer science and informational security
  Ecology and climate change
  Water resources and pollution treatment
  Promote educational cooperation among all BRICS universities and education institutions.
  Promoting the BRICS Network University research collaborations to foster productivity, innovation,
economic growth and well-being.
Page 11 of 124
ABOUT THE BRICS ITG :
WATER RESOURCES AND POLLUTION TREATMENT
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
BRICS  Network  Universities  was
developed  in  the  BRICS  7th  summit  in
Russia  in  July  2015,  under  a  Russian
proposal of the establishment of BRICS NU,
which was written into Ufa Declaration. The
International  Thematic  Group
practical  knowledge  about  water  resources
and the methods of pollution treatment.
In particular, the ITG is aimed at:
  developing joint educational and professional training programs on protection of water resources
and pollution treatment tailored to the BRICS countries;
  conducting  research  on  the  formation  of  water  resources  and  the  origin  of  groundwater  and
surface water composition in the BRICS countries;
  developing rational methods of natural and wastewater treatment and water conservation.
Member Universities of BRICS NUs
  Federal University of Minas Gerais (Brazil)
  Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (Brazil)
  Tomsk Polytechnic University (Russia)
  Saint Petersburg State University (Russia)
  National Institute of Technology Durgapur (India)
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (India)
  Hohai University (China)
  North China University of Water Resources and Electric Power (China)
  Durban University of Technology (South Africa)
  Central University of Technology (South Africa)
Page 12 of 124
BRICS ITG Chair Professor (Water Resources and Pollution Treatment)
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
since 2018 :
Prof. Faizal Bux
Director, Institute for Water and Wastewater Technology,
Durban University of Technology, South Africa
Prof. Vinod Tare
Professor, Department of Civil Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
CONTACT INFORMATION OF THE FACULTY MEMBERS
INVOLVED IN BRICS NUs ACTIVITIES AT NIT DURGAPUR, INDIA
Page 13 of 124
SOME OF THE ACTIVITIES OF
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
UNDER  BRICS  STI  FRAMEWORK
Tomsk Polytechnic University, Russia
East China University of Technology, China
ECUT, China and TPU, Russia Team at India with NIT Durgapur
NIT Durgapur Team at China with                                    NIT Durgapur Team at Russia with TPU, Russia
ECUT, China and TPU, Russia
Page 14 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
DAY – 1 (JULY 6, 2021)
Page 15 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 16 of 124
Dr. Hirok Chaudhuri
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Hirok Chaudhuri is presently working as an Associate Professor at Physics
Department, NIT Durgapur (NITD). He is also acting as an adjunct faculty
and joint coordinator of Center for Research on Environment and Water at
NITD. He is  the founder coordinator of the Science Museum at  NITD.  He
performed Post-Doctoral research activity at VECC (a unit of Department of
Atomic Energy, Government of India) Kolkata, India. He completed his Ph D
Thesis  work  from  Saha  Institute  of  Nuclear  Physics,  Kolkata,  India.  Dr.
Chaudhuri received several awards as a young scientist. He was selected as a
Fellow  of  Earth  Science  Society  of  India  in  2015.  He  is  also  working  as  an  invited  member  of  the
International  Thematic  Group  of  the  BRICS  Network  University  Programme  on  Water  Resources  and
Pollution Treatment. Dr. Chaudhuri received Visiting Scientist Fellowship from Govt. of India, Department
of Atomic Energy at VECC, Kolkata. He was also awarded by ONGC (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation),
India in 2009 for his major contribution in R & D Activity on the country’s first Pressure Swing Adsorption
based Prototype Helium Purification Plant at ONGC’s Kuthalam GCS, Tamilnadu. He received National
Scholarship from the Government of West Bengal, Education Department, India in the year 1996.
Dr. Chaudhuri has a long-term working experience in the research areas:
Geochemical  Precursors  for  Earthquakes,  Geothermal  Exploration,  Helium  Exploration,
Environmental Radioactivity, Nonlinear Dynamics. Recently he started research activities in the field
of  Wastewater  Treatment  using  nano-technology.  Presently  he  is  working  as  investigators  of  three
research  projects  (both  national  and  international  status)  and  two  academic  and  societal  development
projects. Dr. Chaudhuri successfully completed three research projects funded by Govt. of India MHRD,
SERB,  DST.  He  has  several  research  publications  (more  than  40  publications)  in  Peer  Reviewed
International  and National  SCI, Scopus and Web of Science indexed Journals  and monographs as  book
chapters. He is also working as a mentor for Research Student for Ph D Thesis work and M. Tech (Advanced
Material  Science  and  Technology)  and  M.  Sc.  (Physics)  Project  Thesis  work.  Dr.  Chaudhuri  delivers
lectures in B. Tech., M. Tech (Advanced Material Science and Technology) and M. Sc. (Physics) levels
and also for Ph D course work. He delivered more than 45 invited talk at different parts of the globe. He is
also working as Reviewer in reputed international journals.
email: hirok.chaudhuri@phy.nitdgp.ac.in, imhirok@gmail.com, Cell Phone: +91 9434789019
Page 17 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Prof. Y. M. Joshi
Page 18 of 124
Prof. Anupam Basu
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Prof. Anupam Basu, is the Director of National Institute of Technology,
Durgapur  and  is  Professor-on-lien,  Dept.  of  Computer  Science  &
Engineering, IIT Kharagpur. He is an active researcher in the areas of
Cognitive and Intelligent Systems, Embedded Systems and Language
Processing, He has led  a number of projects for Technology Enabled
Education,  including  School  Education  and  education  for  those  with
Physical Disabilities. He has also taught at the University of California
at Irvine and at the University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada.
He  has  acted  as  the  Chairperson  of  the  AICTE  Curriculum  revision
committee  for  Computer  Science  &  Engineering.  He  has  served  in
several committees of the Govt. of India and those in the State of West
  Ph.D. in Expert System for Control System Design, Department of Computer Science
and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur, India 1988.
  M.Eng. in Computer Engineering with 1st class Honours (First Class 2nd), Jadavpur
University, India, 1982.
  B.Eng. in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, 1st class Honours Jadavpur
University, India, 1980.
  HSC from St. Lawrence High School, Kolkata, India, 1975 (22nd in the combined merit
list of West Bengal Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, India).
  State  Award  for  Best  Innovator  for  Improving  Life  of  Physically  Challenged
Community, Ministry of Social Welfare, West Bengal Government, 2014
  NCPEDP-Mphasis  Universal  Design  Award  2011  for  contributions  in  design  for
disabled, National Council for Promotion of Employment of disabled Persons, India and
  National  Award  for  Technology  Development  for  Empowering  Persons  with
Disability 2007, Ministry of Social Justice and Youth Empowerment, Government of
  Da Vinci Award 2004 for Best Technology and Communication by Speech Impaired
and  People  with  Cerebral  Palsy  2004,  Engineering  Society  of  Detroit  &  Multiple
Sclerosis Society of Michigan, USA.
  Fellow of Indian National Academy of Engineering, 2000, Indian National Academy
  Humboldt Fellowship 1997, Alexander von Humboldt Stiftung.
  Jaycee Award for Outstanding Persons for Research in Assistive System 1996, Calcutta
Chamber of Commerce
  Young  Scientist  Research  Award  1992,  Department  of  Science  &  Technology,
Government of India.
Page 19 of 124
Prof. Abhay Karandikar
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Prof. Abhay Karandikar is currently serving as the Director
of IIT Kanpur. Earlier, he was the Dean (Faculty Affairs) and
the Institute Chair Professor in the Department of Electrical
Engineering  at  IIT  Bombay.  He  has  been  instrumental  in
developing many pathbreaking technologies and has been at
the forefront of several large initiatives both at the institute
and  the  national  level.  He  is  the  founding  member  and
chairman of the Telecom Standards Development Society of
India  (TSDSI),  India's  standards  body  for  telecom.  He  has
also  served  as  the  coordinator  of  Tata  Teleservices  IIT
Bombay Center of Excellence in Telecommunications (TICET) and the National Center of Excellence in
Technology for Internal Security.
Prof. Abhay Karandikar received his M. Tech. and then a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from IIT Kanpur
in 1988 and 1994, respectively. Prof. Karandikar's current research interests include frugal 5G and rural
broadband,  device  to  device  communication,  software  defined  networking,  network  function
virtualization  and  5G  core  network,  and  quality  of  service  and  resource  allocation  in  wired/wireless
networks. His large research group comprises research scientists, engineers, scholars and senior managers.
They  have  together  developed  several  pathbreaking  technologies.  These  include  Linux  based  MPLS
router, Emergency Communication System for Force 1, Low Cost Cellular Backhaul for Rural Access
(CeBRA), Mobile Social Networking Platform (MSNP) and several others. In 2002, he co-founded and
incubated Eisodus Networks in IIT Bombay's business incubator. The aim was to develop metro Ethernet
switch for broadband access network. Later, the company secured investors' funding and in 2007, became
a part of Tejas Networks.
Achievements and Honors
  Mozilla Open Innovations Challenge for the Gram Marg solution for Rural Broadband, 2017.
Impactful Research Award, IIT Bombay, 2017.
IEEE Standards Medallion, 2016.
  VASVIK Industrial Research Award, 2013.
  NASI-Reliance Industries Platinum Jubilee Award, 2012.
  Hari Om Ashram Prerit Dr. Vikram Sarabhai Research Award, 2009.
  Prof K Sreenivasan Memorial Award, 2006.
  Prof. S.V.C. Aiya Memorial Award, 2006.
  Dr. P.K. Patwardhan Technology Development Award, 2004.
Page 20 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 21 of 124
Dr. Supriya Pal
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Supriya Pal is presently working as Associate Professor in the Dept. of
Civil  Engineering,  National  Institute  of  Technology  Durgapur,  West
Bengal,  India.  He  is  having  a  total  teaching,  research  and  industrial
experience  of  more  than  19  years  in  the  field  of  Geotechnical  and  Geo-
environmental  engineering.  He  has  a  Ph.D  in  Civil  Engineering  from
Jadavpur  University,  Kolkata,  India  and  obtained  Master  of  Civil
Engineering from the same institution in the specialization of Geotechnical
Engineering.  Dr.  Pal  has  a  long-term  working  experience  in  the  research
areas:  Geotechnical  Engineering,  Geo-environmental  Engineering,  Solute
transport through porous media, Industrial wastewater treatment, Electro-
kinetic  treatment  of  contaminated  land.  Recently  he  started  research  activities  in  the  field  of  stability
analysis of ash dykes, scientific study on open cast mine slope stability, metal extraction from fly ash. Dr.
Pal has several national and international collaborations. He has research collaboration with Far Eastern
Federal University, Russia (in metal extraction technology from fly ash); Tomsk Polytechnic University;
Russia, Hohai University, East China University and Technology, China; Federal university of Rio De
Janerio, Brazil; Institute for Water and Wastewater Technology, Durban University of Technology, South
Africa (through BRICS NU Programme of Water Recourses and Pollution Treatment). Presently, Dr. Pal
is working as investigators of three research projects on “land subsidence study of CBM gas producing
block” funded by M/s Essar Oil, India, “Environmental geochemistry and treatment of organic pollutants
in aquatic systems in the selected areas of China, India and Russia” under BRICS
BRICS  STI  Framework  Programme,  “Potential  use  of  fine  grained  clay  soil  as  landfill  liner  for
containment of pollutants in waste disposal site” under RIG, MHRD. These projects are funded by Govt.
of India MHRD, DST, and M/s Essar Oil, India. Dr.Pal has more than 25 publications in Peer Reviewed
International and National SCI, Scopus and Web of Science indexed Journals. Moreover, he published 5
research  articles  as  book  chapters.  Dr.  Pal  is  the  editor  of  the  book  “Advances  in  Water  Resources
Management  for  Sustainable  Use”  publish  by  Springer.  Dr.  Pal  has  numerous  publications  in  the
Proceedings of International / National Conferences, He delivered more than 25 invited talks in various
conferences, seminars, workshop and technical meetings held in India and abroad.
Presently Dr. Pal is serving as the Coordinator and ITG (International Thematic Group) member of the
BRICS Network University (NU) programme of NIT Durgapur in the thematic area of “Water Resources
and Pollution Treatment”. He is also acting as Member of National Coordination Committee (NCC) of
BRICS Network University Programme under Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India. He is
also  acting  as  coordinator  of  State  Technical  Agency  (STA),  Pradhan  Mantri  Gram  Sadak  Yojana
(PMGSY), under the authority of the Ministry of Rural Development, Govt. of India.
email: supriya.pal@ce.nitdgp.ac.in, Cell Ph: +91 9434788154
Page 22 of 124
DR. RAJNARAYAN SAHA
Professor & Head
Dept. of Chemistry
Broad area:  Environmental Chemistry
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr.  Rajnarayan  Saha  has  more  than  23  years  of
research  experience  in  the  field  of  Environmental
Chemistry,  Water  and  Wastewater  Treatment.  He
earned  his  Ph.D  degree  from  Indian  Institute  of
Technology,  Mumbai  (IITB).  He  did  his  M.Tech  in
Science  &  Technology
IITB.  and  M.Sc.
(Chemistry) from Burdwan University. He is currently
working as professor in Department of Chemistry at
National institute of Technology, Durgapur, India. Dr.
Saha  working  in  the  areas  on  Physico-Chemical  and
biological  treatment  of  wastewater,  Food  chain
environmental  application  of  nano  materials.
Regularly  handling  research  projects,  sponsored  by
DST, UGC and other funding agencies. He has visited
several  countries  like  USA,  Germany,  Netharlands,
Italy,  Oman,  Spain  and  France  for  his  collaborative
research  and  academic  activities.  12  Ph.D  students
have  already  been  awarded  and  4  numbers  of
Environmental problems. In addition to the doctoral
programme,  many M.Tech  students  are  pursuing  of
their Dissertation work under him. He has completed
and running Sponsored Projects from Govt. of West
Bengal and Govt. of India. He published more than 40
research papers in different renowned International
Hazardous  Material,  ACS  Sustainable  Chemistry  &
Engineering,  Chemistry  Select,  Advanced  Powder
Technology,  Desalination  and  Water  Treatment,
Engineering, Journal of Plant interaction, Water Sc.&
Page 23 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Family Name: Sun
Date of Birth: 1962-09-24
Prof. Dr. Zhanxue Sun
School of Water Resource and Environmental Engineering,
East China University of Technology
No.418 Guanglan Ave., Nanchang,
Jiangxi Province, P.R.China, 330013
Tel: +86-13707947436, Email: zhxsun@ecit.cn
Zhanxue Sun, Professor, his research interests are the use of environmental isotopes, geochemistry and
hydrochemistry in geothermal studies, uranium prospecting， mining and environmental issues. Using
stable isotopes together with geochemical and hydrochemical tools, he looks at the recharge ori gin of
water, solutes and gases in geothermal systems, the hydrogeochemical processes that occurred in the
subsurface, and uranium, radon and radium anomalies of groundwaters and their relations with uranium
mineralization. He is interested in bacteria leaching of low-grade uranium and other metal ores and the
biogeochemical  reactions  during  the  heap  or  in-situ  leaching  processes.  He  has  served  as  principal
scientific investigator in more than 30 research projects supported by China Geological Survey, NSFC
(National  Science  Foundation  of  China),  CNNC  (China  National  Nuclear  Corporation),  MOST
(Ministry  of  Science  and  Technology)  and  some  other  funding  sources.  He  has
hydrogeochemistry, uranium hydrogeochemistry and geothermics at undergraduate and postgraduate
level at of the East China University of Technology for many years and has supervised more than 30
Ph.D. and master students in the field of hydrogeology and bio-hydrometallurgy. He has published 3
monographs  and  3  textbooks  and  written  over  80  articles  in  international/domestic  journals  and
Page 24 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 25 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 26 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – I
Page 27 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 28 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 29 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Photocatalysis for wastewater treatment: engineering consideration and perspectives
College of Environment, Hohai University, China
The debate on whether photocatalysis can reach full maturity at commercial level as an effective and
economical process for treatment and purification of water and wastewater has recently intensified. Despite
a  bloom  of  scientific  investigations  in  the  last  30  years,  particularly  with  regards  to  innovative
photocatalytic  materials,  photocatalysis  has  so  far  seen  a  few  industrial  applications.  Regardless  of  the
points of view, it has been realized that research on reactor design and modeling are now equally urgent to
match the extensive research carried out on innovative photocatalytic materials. In reality, the development
of photocatalytic reactors has advanced steadily in terms of modeling and reactor design over the last two
decades, though this topic has captured a smaller specialized audience. In this critical review, we introduce
the latest developments on photocatalytic reactors for water treatment from an engineering perspective. The
focus is on the modeling and design of photocatalytic reactors for water treatment at pilot- or at greater
scale.  Photocatalytic  reactors  utilizing  both  natural  sunlight  and  UV
irradiation  sources  are
comprehensively discussed. The most promising photoreactor designs and models are examined giving key
design guidelines. Other engineering considerations, such as operation, cost analysis, patents, and several
industrial applications of photocatalytic reactors for water treatment are also presented. The dissemination
of key photocatalytic reactor design principles among the scientific community and the water industry is
currently one of the greatest obstacles in translating PWT research into widespread real-world application.
Prof. Dawei Wang
College of Environment, Hohai University, China
Dr.  Wang  is  originally  from  Jiangsu  Province,  China.  He  received  his  B.E.  and  Ph.D.  degrees  in
environmental engineering from Hohai University, China in 2011 and 2016, respectively. During 2014–
2016.  he  also  worked  as  a  visiting  student  in  the  Department  of  Chemistry  at  University  of  California,
Riverside, USA. After completed a postdoc fellowship at Virginia Commonwealth University, USA, and a
postdoc fellowship at Clemson University, USA, he is currently a professor of environmental engineering
at Hohai University, China.
Page 30 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Adapting green and blue infrastructure to the built environment: benefits,
perspectives and challenges
N. O. Nascimentoa*, T.Silvaa, D. B. Rosaa
a.  Department of Hydraulic Engineering and Water Resources, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, av.
Antônio Carlos 6627, Pampulha, Belo Horizonte (MG),
*Corresponding author: niloon@ehr.ufmg.br or niloon2012@gmail.com
Green and blue infrastructute (GBI) usually refers to the association of urban water management concepts
such as water sensitive urban design (WSUD) and low impact development (LID) with concepts of green-
blue  corridors  and  urban  forests  providing  connectivity  between  protected  areas  and  promoting
biodiversity, among other functions. GBI, frequently reported as an approach able to decisively contribute
to the sustainability of urban water management (Maes et al., 2014, Rosa et al, 2020), aims to protect the
environment, both the “green” (e.g. forests, parks, urban vegetation, grass, bushes, etc.…) and the “blue”
(e.g.  ponds,  creeks,  lakes,  reservoirs,  rivers,  etc.),  with  several  associated  benefits  such  as:  (i)  reducing
natural  risks  as  flooding  and  land  sliding;  (ii)  mitigating  environmental  impacts  of  urbanisation,
agricultural, industrial and mining activities; (iii) mitigating impacts of urbanization on the local climate,
as it is the case of heat islands, through a considerable increase on the presence of trees and green spaces
in urban areas; (iv) promoting connectivity, integrating urban and protect areas within metropolitan regions;
(v)  restoring  and  protecting  riparian  areas,  water  sources  and  recharge  areas  and  steep  hilltops;  (vi)
promoting biodiversity by improving the ecological state of urban and metropolitan areas and recovering
ecological continuity; (vii) making cities more resilient to climate change.
Nevertheless, one of the main challenges of adopting GBI approaches relates to the fact that the core of big
cities is frequently composed by already built and densely occupied urban areas (e.g.: Romnée et al, 2015;
Baek et al, 2015, Rosa et al, 2020). Particularly in the developing world, existing stormwater infrastructure
has frequently been built according to conventional approaches. This leads to low adaptability in a changing
world where pressures due to climate change and population growth require more flexible and adaptable
approaches on urban development and sustainable resources management (Juntti et al, 2021). In the present
paper, we describe results of on-going research projects on adapting GBI to built areas, using as case studies
urban catchments in the Metropolitan Region of Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
Page 31 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Baek, S.-S., Choi, D.-H., Jung, J.-W., Lee, H.-J., Lee, H., Yoon, K.-S., Cho, K. H. (2015). Optimizing low impact development
(LID) fir stormwater runoff treatment in urban area, Korea: Experimental and modelling approach. Water Research 86, 122-
Maes, J., Barbosa, A., Baranzelli, C., Zulian, G., Silva, F. B., Vandecasteele, I.,  Lavalle, C. (2014). More green infrastructure
is required to maintain ecosystem services under current trends in land-use change in Europe. Landscape Ecology, 30(3),
Romnée,  A.,  Evrard,  A.,  Trachte,  S.  (2015).  Methodology  for  a  stormwater  sensitive  urban  watershed  design,  Journal  of
Hydrology, 530, 87-102.
Juntti, M.; Costa, H.; Nascimento, N. (2021). Urban environmental quality and wellbeing in the context of incomplete urbanisation in Brazil:
Integrating directly experienced ecosystem services into planning. Progress in Planning, v. 143, p. 100433.
Rosa DWB, Nascimento NO, Moura PM, et al. (2020) Assessment of the hydrological response of an urban watershed to rainfall-runoff events
in different land use scenarios – Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil. Water Science and Technology 81(4): 679–693. DOI: 10.2166/wst.2020.148
Prof. Nilo Nascimento
Nilo Nascimento is Civil Engineer graduated from the Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), in
Brazil, in 1982. He holds a Master’s degree in applied hydrology from the École Polytechnique Fédérale
de  Lausanne  (EPFL),  Switzerland  (1985)  and  a  doctorate  in  environmental  sciences  from  the  École
Nationale  des  Ponts  et  Chaussées  (ENPC),  France  (1995).  He  is  full  professor  at  the  Department  of
Hydraulic and Water Resources Engineering of UFMG. He has 26 years of research experience on urban
drainage, with focus on flood studies, sustainable urban drainage systems (SUDS) and more recently on
blue and green infrastructure. He has lead researches on those topics funded domestically, by the European
Union and by bilateral cooperation frameworks (France, the UK, Argentina). He served as Deputy Director
of  International  Relations  of  UFMG  between  2012  and  2014  and  as  Head  of  the  UFMG  Graduate
Programme on Sanitation, Environment and Water Resources from 2015 to 2018. He has been member of
the IWA/IAHR Joint Committee on Urban Drainage (2006-2012). He is a member of the editorial board of
the Urban Water Journal and scientific committees of numerous national and international conferences.
Page 32 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – II
Page 33 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Study on distribution and treatment of typical antibiotics in Poyang Lake
Jiale Li*, Yihui Dong, Zhanxue Sun**, Fawang Hu, Ling Xiang, Chengfang Wei, Meng Wang, Yao
Wang and Ye Yang
School of Water Resource and Environmental Engineering, East China University of Technology, Nanchang 330013,
*First author: lijiale39@126.com
**Corresponding author: sunzhanxue@aliyun.com
Antibiotic  plays  an  important  role  not  only  in  animal  husbandry  and  aquaculture  but  also  in  the
treatment and prevention of human diseases. Due to the mass production  and use of antibiotics, there is
much antibiotic wastewater in Poyang Lake Basin which is located in the Southeast of China. This research
shows that, Sulfonamides and quinolones were frequently detected in the water around Poyang Lake, and
the  concentration  of  sulfonamides  could  reach  μg/L  level,  while  the  concentration  of  quinolones  and
tetracyclines  macrolides  was  low  or  not  detected.  The  highest  concentration  in  wastewater  could  reach
47460.68 ng/L, and the highest concentration of river water was 1861.53 ng/L. In the groundwater samples,
the highest concentration was 2589.07 ng/L[1].
Fe3O4@PAC  composites  with  activated  carbor  as  carrier  and  Fe3O4  as  catalyst  were  prepared  by
hydrothermal  synthesis.  The  decomposition  efficiency  of  Sulfamethoxazole  (SMX)  is  stronger  in  an
alkaline environment of Fe3O4@PAC/persulfate system (Fe3O4@PAC/PS). Periodic experiments show that
Fe3O4@PAC has excellent catalytic stability and can be reused. NO3
-, Cl-, and humic acid (HA)
have been shown to interfere with the removal of SMX by the Fe3O4@PAC/PS. The inhibitory intensity
did  not  clearly  increase  with  increasing  NO3
-  concentration,  HCO3
-  can  significantly  reduce  SMX
degradation,  Cl-  has  no  apparent  inhibitory  effect  on  SMX  removal  in  the  Fe3O4@PAC/PS.  With  the
addition  of  HA,  the  efficiency  of  SMX  removal  by  the  Fe3O4@PAC/PS  system  has  also  dropped.
Fe3O4@PAC/PS may accelerate the removal of SMX in the presence of heavy metal pollutants (Zn, Cu,
Ni) in the water. It was found that the removal rate of SMX increased with increasing metal concentration
by adding different concentrations of heavy metals[2].
[1] Fawang Hu, master theisi, East China University of Technology, 2020.
[2] Ling Xiang, master theisi, East China University of Technology, 2021.
Page 34 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Name: Jiale Li
Date of Birth: 11.26.1981
Nationality: People's Republic of China
Company/Department: East China University of Technology
Address: NO.418, Guanglan Street, Economic and technological
development zone, Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, PRC
E-mail: lijiale@ecut.edu.cn; lijiale39@126.com
Jiale Li, male, who was born at 1986, PhD, Lecturer. He was graduated of the major of Groundwater science
and engineering at China University of Geosciences (Wuhan) at, now working at School of Water Resources
and  Environmental  Engineering,  East  China  University  of  Technology.  He  is  interested  at  the  field  of
environmental organic pollution chemistry, groundwater pollution and prevention, radiation hydrogeology,
and  hydrogeochemistry.  He  has  published  for  more  than  20  articles,  including  10  articles  which  were
indexed by SCI and EI. He is now hosting 8 projects, taking part in IAEA projects, NSFC projects, and
Page 35 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Assessing spatial distribution of COVID-19 prevalence in Brazil using decentralised
Authors: Cesar R. Mota1; Thiago Bressani-Ribeiro1; Juliana C. Araújo1; Cíntia D. Leal1; Deborah Leroy-
Freitas1; Elayne C. Machado1; Maria Fernanda Espinosa1; Luyara Fernandes1; Thiago L. Leão1,6;  Lucas
Chamhum-Silva1;  Lariza  Azevedo1;  Thiago  Morandi1;  Gabriel  Tadeu  O.  Freitas1;  Michelle  S.  Costa2;
Beatriz  O.  Carvalho2;  Marcus  Tulius  P.  Reis3;  Marília  C.  Melo4;  Sergio  R.  Ayrimoraes5;  Carlos  A.L.
1Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG). Departamento de Engenharia Sanitária e Ambiental,
Escola de Engenharia
2Minas Gerais State Health Authority (SES).
3Sanitation Company for Minas Gerais (COPASA).
4Minas Gerais Institute for Water Management (IGAM).
5National Agency for Water and Sanitation (ANA)
6Centro Federal para Educação Tecnológica de Minas Gerais (CEFET-MG)
Brazil has become one of the epicentres of the COVID-19 pandemic, with cases heavily concentrated in
large cities. Testing data is extremely limited and unreliable, which restricts health authorities’ ability to
deal with the pandemic. Given the stark demographic, social and economic heterogeneities within Brazilian
cities, it is important to identify hotspots so that the limited resources available can have the greatest impact.
This study shows that decentralised monitoring of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in sewage can be used to assess the
distribution of COVID-19 prevalence in the city. The methodology developed in this study allowed the
identification  of  hotspots  by  comprehensively  monitoring  sewers  distributed  through  Belo  Horizonte,
Brazil’s third largest city. Our results show that the most vulnerable neighbourhoods in the city were the
hardest hit by the pandemic, indicating that, for many Brazilians, the situation is much worse than reported
by official figures.
Keywords: wastewater-based epidemiology; Covid-19; prevalence; hotspots; decentralised sewage
monitoring; health vulnerability
Page 36 of 124
Dr. Cesar Mota
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Cesar Mota is Associate Professor in the Department of Sanitary and Environmental Engineering at
the  Federal  University  of  Minas  Gerais  (UFMG),  Brazil.  He  has  a  PhD  in  Civil  and  Environmental
Engineering from North Carolina State University (USA, 2006), an MSc degree in Civil and Environmental
Engineering from the University of Nevada (USA, 2001) and a Bachelor’s in Civil Engineering from the
Federal University of Ceará (Brazil, 1998). He coordinates projects funded by the Royal Society (UK) and
Brazilian research councils and is Deputy Head of the National  Institute of Science and Technology on
Sustainable Sewage Treatment Plants (INCT-Sustainable STPs). His research interests are in the area of
water quality engineering, with emphasis on biotechnology for water and wastewater treatment, sustainable,
low-cost water/wastewater treatment processes, valorisation of wastes, and the use of sewage monitoring
as an epidemiological tool (he is in the coordination team of the Sewage-Covid Project, financed by the
National Water and Sanitation Agency, monitoring the sewage of Belo Horizonte, Rio de Janeiro, Brasília,
Curitiba, Fortaleza and Recife). Before joining UFMG’s faculty, Dr. Mota was a Lecturer at Newcastle
University  (United  Kingdom),  School  of  Civil  Engineering  and  Geosciences  (2007  to  2012),  where  he
coordinated research projects funded by the Royal Society and the European Commission.
Page 37 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 38 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 39 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Highly porous silicotitaniumphosphate material and its application for
toxic ion adsorption from wastewater
N. Pal,a,b M. Paul, b M. Ali,c A. Bhaumik b
aDepartment of Physics and Chemistry, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology, Gandipet, Hyderabad
500075, Telangana State, India
bDepartment of Materials Science, Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, 2A & B Raja S. C.
Mullick Road, Jadavpur, Kolkata , West Bengal 700 032, India
cDepartment of Chemistry, Jadavpur University, Jadavpur, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 032, India
In  the  last  few  decades,  with  increasing  urbanisation  and  industrial  development,  water  pollution  and
scarcity  of  pure  drinking  water  has  become  a  major  problem  for  many  developing  countries  like  India.
Various industries, like textile, paper, pharmaceutical, smelting even domestic and agricultural discharge
are contaminating water by releasing toxic heavy metal ions, organic chemicals etc. As a result, people
from tender to old age are suffering from poor health conditions. Scientists all over the world have devoted
themselves in search of a new material which will act as powerful adsorbent for removing toxic ions from
wastewater. My presentation will discuss about a carefully designed mesoporous silicotitaniumphosphate
material which was synthesized by evaporation induced self-assembly method (EISA) in a non-aqueous
sol-gel route. The material has been thoroughly characterized by different analytical techniques. Potential
application of this solid has been investigated for removal of toxic metal ions like As(III/V), Cd(II) and
Hg(II) from the contaminated water. The future possibility of this porous material is also mentioned briefly.
Hope,  the  work  presented  here  can  be  helpful  for  any  researchers  working  in  other  emerging  fields  of
1. M. Paul, N. Pal, M. Ali, A. Bhaumik, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem. 330 (2010) 49–55.
Page 40 of 124
Waste waterClean waterToxic ion removingSilicotitaniumphosphate
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 41 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session - III
Page 42 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Environmental Geotechnics: Some Case Studies
Avishek Adhikary1, Ramiz Raja1, Sahinur Rahaman Mondal2, Supriya Pal3*,
Hirok Choudhuri4, Mrinal Kanti Mandal5
1Research Scholar, Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, West
Bengal - 713209, India.
2Assistant  Professor,  Civil  Engineering  Department,  Sanaka  Educational  Trust’s  Group  of  Institution-
Durgapur, West Bengal, Pin-713212, India.
3*Associate Professor, Civil Engineering Department, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, West
Bengal, Pin-713209, India. e-mail: supriya.pal@ce.nitdgp.ac.in, Tel. No. +91 94347 88154
4Associate Professor, Dept. of Physics, National  Institute of Technology Durgapur, West Bengal, Pin-
5Associate  Professor,  Chemical  Engineering  Department,  National  Institute  of  Technology  Durgapur,
West Bengal, Pin-713209, India.
Abstract:  This  paper  deals  with  four  research  case  studies  in  the  thematic  areas  of  environmental
geotechnics  such  as  (i)  Assessment  of  heavy  metal  contamination  in  soils  around  Durgapur  Industrial
Area, West Bengal, India; (ii) Solidification/stabilization of heavy metals in a contaminated site by using
pozzolanic-based  materials;  (iii)  Electro-restoration  of  2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic  Acid,  (2,4-D)
Contaminated  Soil-An  Experimental  Approach;  and  (iv)  Efficacy  assessment  of  clayey  soil  as  liner
material in phenolic laden waste containment structures. The elevated levels of heavy metal contamination
in surface soil of the industrial city Durgapur, West Bengal, India, are an environmental concern due to
their possible migration to the groundwater through leaching. In the first research study, the contamination
assessment  and  source  identification  were  carried  out  based  on  soil  pollution  indices  and  statistical
analyses.  The  aim  of  the  second  case  study  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  solidification/stabilization
technique  to  immobilize  the  various  heavy  metal  contaminants  viz.  Arsenic  (As),  Chromium  (Cr),
Cadmium (Cd), Lead (Pb), Zinc (Zn), Mercury (Hg), Copper (Cu), Nickel (Ni) present in a multimetal-
contaminated landfill site using Fly Ash (FA), quick lime (QL) and Blast furnace slag (BFS). In this study,
the  emphasis  was  given  on  containment  of  the  contaminants  and  simultaneously  improvement  of
geotechnical  properties  of  the  multimetal-contaminated  soil.  The  efficacy  of  electro-kinetic  (EK)
Page 43 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
technology  was  examined  in  the  third  research  investigation  to  assess  in-situ  decontamination  of  soil
polluted  with  2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic  acid  (2,4-D)  herbicides.  The  removal  of  2,4D  was  observed
around 80% from the contaminated soil. The efficacy of clayey soil as liner material in phenolic laden
waste  containment  structures  was  examined  through  laboratory  scale  batch  adsorption  studies  and
migratory behavior of the same through the soil was assessed through physical and numerical modelling
using HYDRUS 1D solute transport software to design the thickness of barrier material to protect precious
groundwater  from  contamination.  The  outcome  of  the  aforesaid  research  studies  will  help  the  geo-
environmental engineers and consultants to decide proper remediation measures to protect the lithosphere
Keywords:  Soil  and  water  contamination;  Assessment;  Remediation;  Solidification/  stabilization;
Electro-remediation; Waste containment structures.
Page 44 of 124
Dr. Supriya Pal
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Supriya Pal is presently working as Associate Professor in the Dept. of
Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, West Bengal,
India.  He is  having a total  teaching, research and industrial  experience of
more  than  19  years  in  the  field  of  Geotechnical  and  Geo-environmental
engineering. He has a Ph.D in Civil Engineering from Jadavpur University,
Kolkata,  India  and  obtained  Master  of  Civil  Engineering  from  the  same
institution in the specialization of Geotechnical Engineering. Dr. Pal has a
long-term  working  experience
the  research  areas:  Geotechnical
Engineering,  Geo-environmental  Engineering,  Solute  transport  through
porous media, Industrial wastewater treatment, Electro-kinetic treatment of
contaminated  land.  Recently  he  started  research  activities  in  the  field  of
stability analysis of ash dykes, scientific study on open cast mine slope stability, metal extraction from fly
ash. Dr. Pal has several national and international collaborations. He has research collaboration with Far
Eastern  Federal  University,  Russia  (in  metal  extraction  technology  from  fly  ash);  Tomsk  Polytechnic
University; Russia, Hohai University, East China University and Technology, China; Federal university
of  Rio  De  Janerio,  Brazil;  Institute for Water and  Wastewater  Technology,  Durban  University  of
Technology, South Africa (through BRICS NU Programme of Water Recourses and Pollution Treatment).
Presently, Dr. Pal is working as investigators of three research projects on “land subsidence study of CBM
gas  producing  block”  funded  by  M/s  Essar  Oil,  India,  “Environmental  geochemistry  and  treatment  of
organic pollutants in aquatic systems in the selected areas of China, India and Russia” under BRICS
BRICS  STI  Framework  Programme,  “Potential  use  of  fine  grained  clay  soil  as  landfill  liner  for
containment of pollutants in waste disposal site” under RIG, MHRD. These projects are funded by Govt.
of India MHRD, DST, and M/s Essar Oil, India. Dr.Pal has more than 25 publications in Peer Reviewed
International and National SCI, Scopus and Web of Science indexed Journals. Moreover, he published 5
research  articles  as  book  chapters.  Dr.  Pal  is  the  editor  of  the  book  “Advances  in  Water  Resources
Management  for  Sustainable  Use”  publish  by  Springer.  Dr.  Pal  has  numerous  publications  in  the
Proceedings of International / National Conferences, He delivered more than 25 invited talks in various
conferences, seminars, workshop and technical meetings held in India and abroad.
Presently Dr. Pal is serving as the Coordinator and ITG (International Thematic Group) member of the
BRICS Network University (NU) programme of NIT Durgapur in the thematic area of “Water Resources
and Pollution Treatment”. He is also acting as Member of National Coordination Committee (NCC) of
BRICS Network University Programme under Dept. of Higher Education, MHRD, Govt. of India. He is
also  acting  as  coordinator  of  State  Technical  Agency  (STA),  Pradhan  Mantri  Gram  Sadak  Yojana
(PMGSY), under the authority of the Ministry of Rural Development, Govt. of India.
email: supriya.pal@ce.nitdgp.ac.in, Cell Ph: +91 9434788154
Page 45 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Geochemical patterns of migration of trace elements in soil waters of the
D. U. Baranov
Lab of Evolutionary Biogeochemistry and Geoecology, Vernadsky Institute of Geochemistry and Analytical
Chemistry RAS, 19 Kosygina street, Moscow Russia
*Corresponding author: mitya.baranov.90@bk.ru
The aim of the study was to study the migration of trace elements in soil waters and to assess the influence
of geochemical, biological and anthropogenic factors on the formation of the chemical composition of the
waters of the aeration zone in a seasonal section (on the example of the Valday upland). The method of leaf
lysimeters  was  used  to  study  soil  waters.  Lysimeters  were  installed  in  the  soil  substrate.  Based  on  the
hierarchy of the world abstract base of soil resources IUS WRB (2015), it was determined that the study
area consists of podzolic soils (PZ) [1]. The studies were carried out during the period of stable preservation
of positive air temperatures and liquid precipitation, starting from mid-April and ending in mid-November,
which is due to limitations in the operation of lysimetric installations.
According to investigation results the formation of the chemical composition of soil waters depends on the
type of soil and the season of the year. Geochemical and biological processes influence the formation of
aeration zone waters. The change in the main indicators of soil waters and the behavior of each element
considered depends on the complex impact of biogenic and geochemical components. Fe Zn, Cu, Co, Mn
are actively consumed by organisms and plants during the growing season. The statistical processing of the
obtained data showed significant differences in the formation of the chemical composition of soil waters
depending on the season for a number of indicators-pH, N, Ni, Rb. Regardless of the time of year and the
depth of sampling.
[1] WRB (2015) World reference base for soil resources. Rome: FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE
UNITED NATION, 192 p.
Page 46 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Lab of evolutionary biogeochemistry and geoecology,
Vernadsky Institute of Geochemistry and Analytical Chemistry of the
Russian Academy of Sciences
19 Kosygina st., Moscow Russia
Specialist in the field of geochemistry of natural waters. The main scientific interests are biogeochemical
factors of migration of elements in soil waters, identification of transboundary transfer of aerotechnogenic
The current works are devoted to the study of the main patterns of migration of elements in the surface
waters of the Valday Upland. Special attention is paid to the migration forms of biophilic elements in soil
Page 47 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Mapping of Groundwater Quality and Consumption Pattern of a
Community Development Block of Jharkhand State in India
Arun Kumar Pramanik1, Deepanjan Majumdar2, Abhik Chatterjee1, *
1   Department of Chemistry, Raiganj University, Raiganj, 733134, India
2      Kolkata  Zonal  Centre,  CSIR-National  Environmental  Engineering  Research  Institute,  i-8,  Sector  C,
EKDP, EM Bypass, Kolkata-700107
1  Department of Chemistry, Raiganj University, Raiganj, 733134, India
Water resources are being reduced qualitatively and quantitatively day by day at a much faster rate due to
anthropogenic interferences. Groundwater quality in the Chandwara block in Jharkhand is crucial to the
livelihood. There is no comprehensive information on groundwater quality of this region, leading to lack
of  understanding  on  groundwater  sustainability  and  socio-economic  development  of  this  region.  Water
samples were collected from 143 water sampling points during the post monsoon season (October 2018 to
March 2019) and analysed for a few  cardinal  potable water quality parameters apart from iron, copper,
arsenic, and fluoride. Mean water usage per family and per capita ranged from about 200 to 517 litres per
day and 19.7 to 47 litres per day, respectively, which included potable and domestic uses. Per capita potable
water consumption was 1.2-4.37 litres per day. In a total of 143 groundwater samples, most had iron beyond
permissible limits of BIS and WHO (0.3 ppm or 300 ppb, respectively) (68% of samples), TDS (36% of
samples), total hardness (39% of samples) and Ca (58% of samples), turbidity (15.4%). A few other samples
exceeded safe limits for EC, alkalinity, magnesium, chloride etc. Fluoride never breached the safe limit for
drinking. Factor analysis indicated that water quality was controlled by 2 principal factors to the extent of
43.3 and 13.5%, respectively. Factor 1 strongly indicated geochemically incorporated salts while Factor 2
was dominated by strongly correlating geochemical Fe and turbidity.
Page 48 of 124
Dr. Abhik Chatterjee
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Designation:  Associate Professor
Department of Chemistry, Raiganj University, Raiganj,
733134, West Bengal, India
B.Sc (1st Class), 2000, Suri Vidyasagar College (The University of
M.Sc (1st Class), 2002, The University of Burdwan.
National Eligibility Test (NET), 2002.  PhD, 2011, Visvabharati University.
1. Arun Sen Memorial award (Given by Suri Vidyasagar College)
2. National merit scholarship (On the basis of B.Sc marks)
3. Junior Research Fellow (DRDO project) at Jadavpur University
Previous & Present Employment:
Assistant Professor, Raiganj College (University College) 8th Nov2005 to 2nd February2015.
Assistant Professor, Raiganj University, 3rd February2015 to 9th May 2019.
Associate Professor, Raiganj University, 10th May 2019 to till date
1. Indian Science Congress Association. 2. International science community association
Editorial Board Member: Research Journal of Chemical sciences
1. Surface and Ground Water quality mapping and their treatment:
i. Evaluationof Hydrochemical Facies and Suitability of Water in Tilaiya Dam Reservoir of the
Jharkhand State in India, Analytical Chemistry Letters, 10:5, 684-
ii. Factors Affecting Lean, Wet-Season Water Quality of Tilaiya Reservoir in the Koderma District of
India during 2013–2017.Water Science, 34:1, 85-97(2020).
iii. A Study on Groundwater Quality Based on Major Ion Chemistry of Jharkhand State in India: A
Review. Accepted in Oriental Journal of Chemistry (2021).
2. Synthesis of organic molecules and Insilico study (Docking,dynamics,DFT etc).
3. Catalyst development for Fuel cell & Lithium ion Battery applications.
Publications in Journal of Power sources, Electrochemica acta, Internation journal of current research
and review, Research and reviews in electrochemistry, International journal of Integrative Biology,
Commun.Comput. Chem, Gene Reports etc.
1. Act as HOD/Coordinator (2010-2012, 2018-2020)
2. Member of Board of studies, PhD committee, Board of Research studies, Research Advisory
Committee, Library Committee etc (Till date).
Page 49 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Identification  of  geosystem  services  to  attenuate  water  pollution  as  a
counter to water scarcity aftermaths
Rawat, A.M1* Bagri, D.S1, Kumar, S2
1Department of Geology, S.R.T Campus, HNB Garhwal University, Uttarakhand, India
2National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, Uttarakhand, India
Urbanization and increasing volume of untreated wastewater from households and municipal townships
culminates to water quality deterioration, particularly in the developing and geographically vast countries
like India. This puts colossal pressure in the water resources in terms of quality and quantity of the water
leading to unexpected water scarcity problems in coming decades. Also the randomly fragmented small
townships in the vicinity of rivers poses much harm to these water bodies as their individual inputs as a
point and nonpoint are often domino leaving them unmanaged. In the present study we identified geosystem
services as a possible solution to the aforementioned problem in  the Alaknanda valley (a pristine water
component of the Ganga), Garhwal Himalaya. These geosystem services in the form of riparian strip as a
solution needs to be replicated within the pollution source itself. Among the selected townships within the
Alaknanda valley we identified a riparian strip present between Joshimath and Alaknanda River as an old
land slide zone. The strip is absent in other townships namely Karanprayag, Rudraprayag and Srinagar. It
was found that the towns along Alaknanda River with riparian strip has low E-Coli count of (~4) compared
to the ones which are in the immediate vicinity of the river with higher E-Coli counts (~55.5). The riparian
strip acts as a buffer to the E-Coli and traps them within it. We thus conclude that the geosystem services
provided by riparian strip can help to restrict the pollutants at their source and prevent the water sources
from integrated deterioration by urbanisation and its aftermaths (water scarcity). Integrating the use of these
geosystem services in developing countries like India will also assist sewage treatments plants, as installing
these sophisticated technologies everywhere is economically not plausible. It is advised that the integration
of government policies with the knowledge and working of such geosystem services can protect the quality
and quantity of water bodies.
Keywords:  Water  quality,  Attenuation,  Geosystem  Services,  Sustainability,  Riparian  buffer,  Water
Page 50 of 124
Aakash Mohan Rawat
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
e- Mail – aakashrawat4444@gmail.com Mob:    8755294524,
Proactive  and  creative  researcher  seeking  entry  level  assignment  in
hydrology, water quality assessment, water resource allocations in rural and
urban areas. I would like to be a part of an organization where I could use
and  enhance  my  knowledge  and  talent  for  the  development  of  both  the
organization and myself.
A brief overview
  A budding professional with conceptual knowledge in hydrology, hydrological modeling, landuse
in relation to water quality and anthropogenic influences effecting water resources.
  Effective communicator with excellent relationship building and interpersonal skills. Possesses a
flexible and detailed oriented attitude with strong analytical, problem solving and organizational
  Resourceful in understanding of fundamental concepts pertaining to water management issues.
  Interested  to  work  in  water  quality  assessment  with  special  emphasis  on  anthropogenic  drivers
influencing water bodies and its effective management.
  High  School  with  first  division  from  St.  Theresa’s  Convent  School  Srinagar  Garhwal  in  2007,
Uttarakhand with 74 %.
  Intermediate  with  first  division  from  St.  Theresa’s  Convent  School  Srinagar  Garhwal  in  2007,
Uttarakhand with 74.5 %.
  Bachelor  in  Science  (Physics,  Mathematics  and  Geology)  with  first  class  with  from  Hemvati
Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University, Srinagar Garhwal, Uttarakhand in 2012 with 61.38%.
  Master  in  Science  (Geology)  with  first  from  Hemvati  Nandan  Bahuguna  Garhwal  University,
Srinagar Garhwal, Uttarakhand in 2014 with 74.79. %.
  Pre. Ph.D course from Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna University in 2015
  Doctor  in  Philosophy  (Ph.D)  (2015-  ongoing)  in  Hydrology  from  Hemvati  Nandan  Bahuguna
University, S.R.T Campus, BadshahiThaul Tehri Garhwal under the supervision of Dr. D.S Bagri
(Associate  Professor in  Dept.  of Geology) in  collaboration with  National  Institute of Hydrology
Roorkee under the supervision of Dr. Sudhir Kumar (Scientist G).
Research and Teaching experience
  3.5  years  and  ongoing  research  experience  as  Ph.D  scholar  at  Hemvati  Nandan  Bahuguna
University,  S.R.T  Campus,  and  BadshahiThaul  Tehri  Garhwal  in  collaboration  with  National
Institute of Hydrology in water quality assessment of Alaknanda in Western Himalayas.
  Teaching experience in S.R.T Campus Tehri as a coursework of Ph.D from 2015 – ongoing.
Page 51 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
A case study on the Transboundary River Bank Management of Asia
Bipasha  Mridha  Ghosh
Asst. Professor, NSHM KNOWLEDGE CAMPUS Durgapur, India
The Ganges is a transboundary river of Asia, which flows through India and Bangladesh.
It  is  the  third  largest  river  on  earth  surface discharge.  It  travels  2,525 km  from  western Himalayas,
Uttarakhand,  India and flows south and east through the Gangetic Plain of North  India into Bangladesh.
Every  year ,  huge  population  turned to  ecological   refugee due  to   meandering of  river, river   bank
erosion,  shifting of  river  and  flood.  It causes economic loss, social distress.  This study is an attempt to
understand the pattern of riverbank   management and   to quantify its societal impact specifically of the
river  Ganga  at  upstream  and  downstream  from  1940  to  2020.  The  study  has  been  carried  out  by  using
various historical maps, satellite imagery and statistical analysis.  The merit of the study remains to locate
faults  and  to  search  possible  measures  to  protect  the  Ganga  riverbank  to  sketch  a  better  riverbank
management plan for betterment of two Asian countries.
Key Word: River  bank  management,   India,  Bangladesh,  Asia.
Bipasha Mridha Ghosh
Name:  Bipasha Mridha Ghosh
Designation:  Asst.  Professor
Affiliation:  NSHM KNOWLEDGE CAMPUS DURGAPUR
Address: Arrha, Shibtala,   Durgapur;  713212
Bipasha    Mridha    Ghosh    did  her  PhD  in    Earth      and
Environmental    Studies    from      NIT-DGP  and    Masters  in
Environmental  Science  from   Kalyani University  of  West
Bengal ,  India.
Begin  her  career  as  environmental
environmental  epidemiology  researcher
then  started  as
Lecturer  of  Environmental  Science.  She  worked  for  last  14
year  as  Asst.  Professor  of  Environmental  Science.  Her  area  of  Research  Interest  involves
Environment and Pollution management,   wild life conservation,   environmental history and many
Page 52 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
DAY 2 (JULY 7, 2021)
Page 53 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – IV
Page 54 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
The effects of velocity-dependent dispersion on groundwater contamination
Chunendra K Sahu
Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
Groundwater remains the primary source of potable, household water supply. With the large number of
industries globally and their resultant waste production, contamination of groundwater due to the leakages
from the waste piles is a major concern. The mixing of contaminants with the groundwater primarily occurs
in the form of mechanical dispersion, which is a velocity-dependent phenomenon. Majority of the previous
theoretical and computational studies, however, are based on constant-velocity-dispersion models, which
is in contrast with the heterogeneities in the aquifers. We are investigating the effects of velocity-dependant
dispersion  on  groundwater  contamination  with  and  without  the  background  flow,  theoretically  and
Dr. Chunendra K Sahu
Dr. Chunendra K Sahu is currently an Assistant Professor at IIT Kanpur (India) in the Department of Civil
Engineering. Prior to joining IIT Kanpur, he was a Postdoctoral Researcher at the University of Cambridge
(UK).  He  pursued  his  PhD  from  the  University  of  Alberta  (Canada)  and  MTech  from  IISc  Bangalore
(India).  His  research  problems  include  mixing  in  the  density-driven  flows  in  porous  media,  with
applications into the fields of groundwater contamination and carbon sequestration etc.
Page 55 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 56 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 57 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Spatiotemporal distribution and sources of inorganic nitrogen in shallow
groundwater of Poyang Lake Basin, China
Yihui Dong, Chunhuang Liu, Jinjing Zan, Yajie Liu, Jiale Li, Chengfang Wei, Zhanxue Sun*
1. State Key Laboratory of Nuclear Resources and Environment, East China University of Technology, Nanchang
2. School of Water Resource and Environmental Engineering, East China University of Technology, Nanchang
**Corresponding author: sunzhanxue@aliyun.com
Nitrogen contamination in groundwater, mainly nitrate, is a safe-drinking water problem  globally in
over 110 countries and regions. The largest fresh water natural reservoir in China, the Poyang Lake in the
basin of the same name located in Jiangxi province, is exposed to nitrate pollution caused by intense and
large-scale irrigation practices [1]. Agricultural activities in this area also lead to nitrate enrichment of the
surface water and groundwater. Nitrate concentration in shallow groundwater reaches up to 206 mg/L [2],
exceeding the WHO recommended value of 11.29 mg/L for drinking water. This study took the Poyang
Lake Basin, China, as the research area and the shallow groundwater was selected as the research object.
The distribution characteristics and temporal and spatial variation of nitrate in shallow groundwater in the
Poyang Lake Region were studied and source of nitrate in groundwater was analysed. Nitrate concentration
in  shallow  groundwater  was  between  0.5-21.6  mg/L  with  an  average  of  7.0  mg/L.  In  the  wet  and  dry
seasons, nitrate concentration was 0.7-21.6 mg/L and 0.5-15.7 mg/L, respectively. Groundwater with high
concentration  of  nitrate  was  mainly  found  in  the  typical  agricultural  irrigation  area.  The  hydrogen  and
oxygen  isotopic  characteristics  of  water  samples  showed  that  surface  water  was  mainly  from  meteoric
precipitation, and influenced by other recharge sources and evaporation. Shallow groundwater was mainly
recharged by local meteoric precipitation and was mixed with surface water, less affected by evaporation.
The results of nitrogen and oxygen isotopic composition of nitrate showed rainfall, irrigation activities, land
use type and fertilizer application were major factors affecting the concentration and distribution of nitrate
in shallow groundwater in the study area. The calculation results using Bayesian model showed that soil
nitrogen had the maximum contribution rate to nitrate in groundwater, with an average contribution rate of
44.6%.  Atmospheric  precipitation  had  a  secondary  contribution  rate  to  nitrate  in  groundwater  with  an
average contribution rate of 28.2%. The contribution rates of nitrogen fertilizer, sewage and faeces were
19.4% and 7.8%, respectively.
[1] Evgeniya Soldatova, Yihui Dong, Jiale Li, et al. Nitrogen transformation and pathways in the shallow
groundwater–soil system within agricultural landscapes [J]. Environ Geochem Health,2021,43:441–459.
[2] Evgeniya Soldatova, Yihui Dong, Jiale Li, et al. Geochemical conditions of natural wetland and paddy
fields in the Poyang Lake area, China[J]. SN Applied Sciences, 2021, 3(1):1-11.
Page 58 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Yihui Dong, lecturer at East China University of Technology and fellowship of Geological Society of
China, is a promising young scholar in the field of groundwater geochemistry and remediation. She presided
two coordinated research projects funded by International Atomic Energy Agency. She has published as
author  and  co-author  of  over  30  papers  in  peer-reviewed  journals.  Her  research  interests  include
groundwater contamination and remediation, and groundwater safety in the vicinity of nuclear power plant.
Page 59 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 60 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 61 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Threatened water supply reservoirs: monitoring and modelling tools to
support sustainable management
T. Silvaa* and N. O. Nascimentoa
a.  Department of Hydraulic Engineering and Water Resources, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, av.
Antônio Carlos 6627, Pampulha, Belo Horizonte (MG),
*Corresponding author: talita.silva@ehr.ufmg.br
Anthropic pressures  and extreme climate events  have been impacting  reservoirs worldwide, threatening
water supply and other ecosystem services they provide. In Belo Horizonte (Brazil), Pampulha reservoir
(9.9 hm3, 16 m maximum depth) constructed on 1938 provided water to the city until 1980 when frequent
cyanobacteria  blooms  led  to  the  suspension  of  water  withdrawn.  In  the  Metropolitan  Region  of    Belo
Horizonte  (MRBH),  Serra  Azul  reservoir  (81.6  hm3,  47  m  maximum  depth)  reached  the  dead  storage
capacity on November 2014 due to extreme drought conditions which impacted water supply in the MRBH.
This study presents the assessment of monitoring and modelling tools, applied to these study sites, that may
contribute to the sustainable management of the water bodies and their catchments. In Pampulha reservoir,
in vivo and in situ fluorometry was assessed in order to identify and quantify phytoplankton biomass [1].
In Serra Azul reservoir, surface water temperature monitoring through remote sensing was assessed using
Landsat images [2]. In both reservoirs, hydrodynamic and ecological modelling is under development to
help  understand  the  major  drivers  of  water  quality  and  to  simulate  prospective  scenarios  considering
different management strategies [3,4]. So far, results are promising but also show the challenges involved
in the monitoring and modelling of such complexe ecosystems.
[1] Silva, T. et al., Ecological Engineering 97 (2016).
[2] Vieira, L. da C. et al., In Proceedings of the E-proceedings of the 38th IAHR World Congress; IAHR:
Panama City (Panama), 2019.
[3] Soares, L.M.V. et al., Inland Waters 9 (2019).
[4] Silva, T.F.G. et al., Water  11 (2019) 946.
Page 62 of 124
Dr. Talita Silva
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Talita Silva is adjunct professor in the Department of Hydraulic Engineering and Water Resources at
the Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG), Brazil. She has a co-direction PhD in Sciences and
Environmental  Technology  from  Université  Paris-Est  (France)  and  from  UFMG  (Brazil).  She  is  civil
engineer from UFMG and holds a master’s degree in Water Management from Ecole des Ponts ParisTech
(France).  Currently,  she  teaches  hydrology  and  water  resources  management  in  the  Environmental
Engineering  undergraduate  program  and  in  the  Sanitation,  Environment  and  Water  Resources  graduate
program, both at the UFMG. Her recent research has focused on coupling hydrological and lake ecological
modelling to assess the impacts of urbanization and extreme climate events on water resources.
Page 63 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Radioactive survey on waterbodies of Durgapur industrial city, India
Suvashree Mukherjeea, Hirok Chaudhurib,a, Mrinal Kanti Mandalc,a, Supriya Pald,a
a Center for Research on Environment and Water (CREW), National  Institute of Technology Durgapur,
b Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
c Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
e Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Nowadays,  Water pollution has become a significant  concern to  the global  scientific community. Water
quality monitoring is an important field of research to protect the ecosystem. Radioactivity in water in any
densely populated area is an essential survey to evaluate possible health hazards to the dwellers. Durgapur
in  West  Bengal  province,  situated  on  the  bank  of  the  Damodar  river,  is  the  major  industrialized  city  in
eastern  India which includes more than 30 industries (both large  and small scales) with  a population of
around 0.7 million people. The radioactive status has yet not been reported for this Durgapur industrial city.
The present study has investigated the radiological impact on the health of the dwellers of Durgapur city
due to radioactive element radon-222 for the first time. It is observed that the radioactive substance radon-
222 concentration varies from 0.05±0.07 Bq/L to 9.37±0.96 Bq/L for various water samples in that city,
depending on the location and depth of the water sources.
Keywords: Water pollution, Radiation in water, Radon-222, Radioactive hazard, Durgapur industrial zone.
Page 64 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
NAME:                                                                       Suvashree Mukherjee
DESIGNATION:                                                              Research Scholar
AFFILIATION:            National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
ADDRESS:           Katwa, District- Purba Bardhaman, West Bengal, India
EMAIL:    suvamukh1111@gmail.com  ; sm.19cr1101@phd.nitdgp.ac.in
Suvashree Mukherjee is presently working as a Research Scholar at the Centre for Research
on Environment and Water (CREW), NIT Durgapur. She is also working as a Junior Research
Fellow of the BRICS Multilateral Project at NIT Durgapur. Her research interest is on water
quality monitoring and cost-effective wastewater treatment technology. Her research activities
include  radioactive  survey  on  water  bodies  and  the  determination  of  various  water  quality
parameters. She is performing research activities in the field of Wastewater Treatment using
Photocatalytic materials and membrane technology.
Suvashree  Mukherjee  passed  Master  degree  in  Physics  from  NIT  Durgapur  and  Bachelor
degree (Honours in Physics) from the University of Burdwan. She was awarded double Gold
Medal  for  securing  the  highest  CGPA  in  Master  degree  in  Physics.  She  passed  various
National level exams like JAM, CSIR NET (JRF), GATE. She presented her research work at
many conferences, including the International symposium on soil and Groundwater in China
Page 65 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – V
Page 66 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
IMPACT OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON WATER RESOURCES IN A SEMI-ARID RIVER
BASIN: MANAGEMENT OPTIONS AND ADAPTATION STRATEGIES
Yali E. Woyessa
Department of Civil Engineering
Central University of Technology, Free State
Bloemfontein 9300, South Africa
Recent climate projections suggest a drop of up to 10% in precipitation in most of Southern Africa by 2050.
It is estimated  that  by  the  year  2025  almost  one-half  of  the  world  population  will  be  living  in  water
stressed  regions.  Furthermore,  rapid  population increase, industrialization and pollution are putting a
strain on the available and diminishing freshwater resources. The main aim of this paper is  to  model the
impact of regional climate change scenarios on the availability of water resources in a semi-arid river basin
in South Africa. In this paper, a dynamically downscaled data was derived from the GCM simulations of
the Coupled Model Inter-comparison Project Phase-5 (CMIP5) and across two greenhouse gas emission
scenarios known as Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) 4.5 and 8.5. The spatial resolution of
the dataset is 50 km × 50 km. Eight GCM (climate models) were used for this set of data. SWAT model
was run using these data for a period of up to end of the century (2020 – 2100) and the results were then
compared  with  long-term  historical  data.  Comparison  of  measured  data  with  simulated  historical  data
showed strong correlation (R2 ≥ 0.9), which is indicative of the reliability of projected future climate. Varied
results were obtained depending on the type of climate model used, but generally the trends were similar in
most cases. However, the multimodel average showed a possible decrease in precipitation (up to -3%), a
decrease in water  yield (up to  -13%) and an increase in potential evapotranspiration (up to +22%). The
latter is indicative of possible drought spells between rainy events.  It is expected that  the results of this
research will assist in formulation of adaptation strategies that will minimize the negative impact of climate
change in the region.
Keywords: climate, modelling, water, river basin, adaptation
Page 67 of 124
Prof Yali Woyessa
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Assistant Dean for Research, Innovation and Engagement in the Faculty of Engineering, Built
Environment and Information Technology,
Central University of Technology, Free State
Private Bag X20539, Bloemfontein 9300, South Africa
Department of Bioproducts and Biosystems Engineering
University of Minnesota
St. Paul MN 55108, USA
Prof Woyessa joined the Central University of Technology (CUT) in 2003 as a post-doctoral fellow and
later  became  a  full-time  faculty  member  where  he  currently  serves  as  Assistant  Dean  in  the  Faculty  of
Engineering, Built Environment and Information Technology and Director of the Centre for Sustainable
Smart Cities. Prof Woyessa also obtained two additional masters degrees during the last few years:  MA
Degree in Higher Education Studies which helped him establish himself as a faculty member by engaging
in current debates in the area of teaching, learning and assessment in higher education and in addressing
the challenges related to diversity in higher education institutions; and MBA in General Management which
provided  him  with  an  in-depth  knowledge  for  efficient  and  effective  innovation  in  leadership  and
management of human and financial resources in the higher education sector.
Prof Woyessa is registered with the Engineering Council of South Africa as a Professional Engineering
Technologist. Prof Woyessa’s research interest include socio-hydrological dynamics; climate change, water
security; land-water linkages; modelling of land use/land cover change and its impact on water resources.
He has published two books and more than 50 papers in peer reviewed journals and conference proceedings.
Page 68 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Simulation of secondary mineral formation from water of Obskoye fen
affected by municipal sewage
E. A. Soldatovaa*, E. S. Sidkinaa, O. G. Savichevb
a.  Lab  of  Modeling  Hydrogeochemical  and  Hydrothermal  Processes,  Vernadsky  Institute  of
Geochemistry and Analytical Chemistry RAS, 19 Kosygina sreet, Moscow Russia
b.  School of Earth Sciences and Engineering, Tomsk Polytechnic University, 30 Lenin Avenue, Tomsk
*Corresponding author: sea@geokhi.ru
The study aims to create a numerical model of mineral precipitation from fen water under the influence
of municipal sewage discharge. For this purpose, the mixing model of fen water and sewage was created to
assess  the  changes  in  the  geochemical  conditions  of  the  Obskoye  fen.  The  Obskoye  fen  near  the
Nashchekovo village was taken as a geochemical background to study the fen water chemical composition.
It  is  located  approximately  2  km  from  the  sewage  discharge  of  the  communal  services  of  Melnikovo
settlement  up  the  slope.  The  simulation  was  performed  in  the  HCh  software  package  [1].  The
thermodynamic model considers the metal complexation with organic ligands since they significantly affect
the speciation of chemical elements in the fen environment.
According to simulation results, calcite and goethite are potentially precipitated from the fen water of
the background area. The proportion of kaolinite and apatite among the potential secondary minerals of the
fen  water  does  not  exceed  0.5%.  The  mixing  of  sewage  with  fen  water  has  a  significant  effect  on  the
precipitation of secondary minerals, particularly apatite. The apatite content significantly increases when
the wastewater is added to the natural fen water. The mass of apatite increases by almost 19 times compared
to the fen water of the background area at the first simulation step. This step corresponds to the ratio of “fen
water/sewage” equal to 10/1. The mass of other precipitated secondary minerals (calcite, goethite, kaolinite)
[1]  Shvarov  Y.V.  HCh:  New  potentialities  for  the  thermodynamic  simulation  of  geochemical  systems
offered by Windows, Geochemistry International 46(8) (2008) 834–839.
Page 69 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Lab of Modeling Hydrogeochemical and Hydrothermal Processes,
Vernadsky Institute of Geochemistry and Analytical Chemistry of the
Russian Academy of Sciences
19 Kosygina st., Moscow Russia
Specialist  in  hydrochemistry  of  various  climatic  and  landscape  zones,  including  Poyang  Lake  wetland
(Jiangxi Province, PRC), Tom’-Yaya interfluve (Western Siberia, Russia), Karelia (Russia).
The main research interests are geochemistry of the shallow groundwater-soil system, nitrogen cycle within
agricultural landscapes, and health risk assessment of exposure to potentially toxic components via drinking
Current works are devoted to modeling the speciation and immobilization of chemical elements in the water
of  flooded  mines  and  wetland  waters  affected  by  agricultural  activity  and  sewage  discharge.  Special
attention is paid to complexation with organic ligands and sorption on secondary minerals.
Page 70 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
HYROLOGICAL PERSPECTIVES ON RAINFALL-RUNOFF MODELS AND REMOTE
SENSING APPLICATIONS DRIVEN BY ENVIRONMENTALLY INTEGRATED BASIN
EXPERIMENTS IN BRAZIL
Otto Corrêa Rotunno Filho
Laboratory  of  Water  Resources  and  Environmental  Studies  (LABH2O),  Civil  Engineering  Program,
Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute for Postgraduate Studies and Research in Engineering – COPPE, Federal
University of Rio de Janeiro, CEP 21945-970, Rio de Janeiro – RJ, Brazil
Abstract. Hydrological simulation models have become an integral part of almost all aspects of hydrology.
Models are used in planning studies to evaluate the benefits and impacts of alternative land use plans or flood
control measures. In design studies, models are used to assist in developing specifications for engineering
structures to solve specific flood control, navigation, or water supply problems. In hydrology, remote sensing
is being recognized as a viable approach to handle spatial variability of watershed properties, because the basic
data are spatial in nature. The state of the art in the research about the use of remote sensing data as input to
lumped and distributed hydrological models can be summarized as follows: (i) visible and infrared part of the
electromagnetic spectrum applied to determination of land use and land cover in a watershed; (ii) the use of
the thermal part of the electromagnetic spectrum for determination of brightness temperature and land surface
temperature; (iii) microwave energy applied to the identification of water, land use and land cover and digital
elevation models, and (iv) the measurement of the total continental water storage including surface water, soil
moisture and groundwater using gravimetric remotely sensed data. Under this framework, this talk provides
an overview of some research works developed in Brazil aligned to the following scientific issues, namely:
(i) global climate change and its regional effects, (ii) hydrology and meteorology at the mesoscale, (iii)
surface-atmosphere interactions, micrometeorology and hydrology of the vadoze zone, (iv) the quality of
water, air and soil and (v) management of water resources.
Keywords:  Hydrological Modeling, Remote Sensing, Water security, Water quantity, Water quality,
Page 71 of 124
Dr.  Otto  Corrêa  Rotunno  Filho  (Associate  Professor,  Laboratory  of  Water  Resources  and
Environmental Studies - LABH2O, Civil Engineering Program, Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute for
Postgraduate Studies and Research in Engineering – COPPE,  Federal University of Rio de Janeiro,
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
He  was  born  in  Porto  Alegre  in  1963,  attended  Civil  Engineering  at  UFRGS  (1984),  Masters  in  Civil
Engineering - Water Resources at COPPE / UFRJ (1989), Ph.D. in Civil Engineering - Water Resources at
the University of Waterloo (1995) and postdoctoral degree at Paul Sabatier University -Toulouse III (2006).
Since 2010, he is head of the Laboratory of Water Resources and Environment of the Civil Engineering
Program of COPPE / UFRJ, which now includes the Hydrology Laboratory, the Computational Hydraulics
Laboratory and the Tracers Laboratory. Between 2010 and 2014, he acted as vice-coordinator of the Civil
Engineering Program. In June 2014, he was elected to coordinate the Civil Engineering Program, with a
two-year  term  (2014-2016).  In  June  2016,  he  was  re-elected  as  Coordinator  of  the  Civil  Engineering
Program (2016-2018), with an exercise that ended in July/2018. He supervised several M.Sc. and Ph.D.
thesis and published several technical papers in peer reviewed journals and in the Proceedings of National
and International Conferences.
Page 72 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – VI
Page 73 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Assessment of various coastal hazards and their management plan in the lower Gangetic delta,
Sagar Island, West Bengal, India
Pankaj Kumar Roy1*, SK Mohinuddin2, Saurabh Kumar Basak3, Malabika Biswas Roy4,
1Professor & Joint Director, School of Water Resources Engineering, Jadavpur University, Kolkata-32, India.
2 Project Fellow, School of Water Resources Engineering, Jadavpur University, Kolkata- 32, India.
3Research Scholar, School of Water Resources Engineering, Jadavpur University, Kolkata- 32, India.
4 Assistant Professor, Department of Geography, Women’s College, Kolkata-700003, India.
Delta  is  the  most  important  depositional  structure  that  forms  at  the  confluence  of  fluvial  and  marine
conditions. It is made up of a large amount of sediments that come from both rivers and the ocean and are
deposited near the river's mouth due to the interplay of both fluvial and marine processes. Sagar Island, on
India's east coast and one of the largest deltas in the Sundarban group, is threatened by coastal erosion,
coastal  vegetation  deterioration,  and  a  variety  of  natural  disasters.  Clay  mining,  wave  activity,  and  the
influence of the river and tidal currents of the Muri Ganga and Hooghly Rivers are the primary causes of
erosion. Natural and human activities are causing morphological changes on Sagar Island at an alarming
rate. Rapid erosion has been observed in the eastern part of the island due to the destabilization and growth
of tidal flats and the gradual shifting of water current towards the island. Furthermore, Tropical cyclones,
flood  events,  saline  water  intrusion,  land  degradation,  tidal  ingression,  and  dune  encroachment  are
important  natural  environmental  hazards (NEH)  that harm the island. The majority of the people in  the
region have a low quality of living and are dissatisfied with government efforts to preserve land from the
effects  of  climate  change.  This  study  focuses  on  the  identification  of  various  coastal  hazards  and  their
effects on Sagar Island, South 24 Parganas, West Bengal, India. In an attempt to alleviate these problems,
suggestions are also made for the sustainable development of the coastal environment using an integrated
coastal zone management (ICZM) plan.
Keywords:  Coastal  erosion,  Coastal  vegetation  deterioration,  tropical  cyclones,  flood  events,  seawater
intrusion, land degradation, tidal ingression, and dune encroachment.
Page 74 of 124
Prof. (Dr.) Pankaj Kumar
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Prof. (Dr.) Pankaj Kumar Roy is currently the Dean of Interdisciplinary Studies, Law and Management of
Jadavpur  University  and  Professor  and  Joint  Director  of  the  Department  of  School  of  Water  Resources
Engineering,  Jadavpur  University  (JU).  He  earned  his  doctorate  in  Water  Resources  Engineering  and
Management from Jadavpur University which was mainly concentrated on modeling hydrological regime
under  impact  of  climate  change  scenario.  His  thrust  area  includes  hydraulics  and  water  resources
engineering, fluid mechanics, climate change and its impact on water resources engineering, surface water
pollution  and  its  mitigation,  groundwater  dynamics,  watershed  technology  and  management,  water
conservation technology, hydro-geological investigation, surface and ground water interaction, solid waste
management,  environmental  modelling,  waste  water  characteristics  etc.  He  is  the  recipient  of  several
fellowships  and  awards  such  as Young  Scientist (Institute  of  Engineers,  Govt.  of  India),  1st National
Doctorate Fellow by AICTE at JU (Govt. of India), Internship Fellowship (University of Pisa, Italy) and IEI
Young Engineers Award (Institution of Engineers (India), Government of India). He has acted as the invited
speaker and the chair-person in as many as 20 reputed national and international seminars, conferences and
workshops.  He  was  the  co-ordinator  of  international  Conference  on  Sustainable  Water  Resources
Management  conducted  by  School  of  Water  Resources  Engineering,  Jadavpur  University  under
collaboration  with  Women’s  College  Calcutta  and  National  Institute  of  Technology,  Durgapur.  He  has
completed 20 national and international research projects funded by DST, PHED, etc. and has conducted
30  consultancy  research  items.  Currently  he  is  the  principal  investigator  of  4  research  projects  funded
by NRDMS, DST, RUSA 2.0, DST, Govt of West Bengal, etc. He has more than 20 years of teaching and
research  experience. He  is  the  reviewer  of  two  reputed  journals,  namely,  Groundwater  for  Sustainable
Development, Elsevier, and Environmental Science & Technology, ACS publications. He has published
more  than  140  articles  in national  and international  journals  and  published  13  research  articles  as  book
chapters.  He  has  acted  as  a  sectional  recorder  of  Engineering  Science  section  of  The  Indian  Science
Congress Association, for the period of 2018-19 and 2019-20. He is now the member of as many as 10
number of learned societies.
Page 75 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Application of Biofilm reactor in the treatment of swine wastewater.
Zebing. Lia*, Shennan. Zenga and Zhanxue. Suna,b
a.  School of Water Resources & Environmental Engineering, East China University of
Technology, Nanchang 330013, China University of Technology, Nanchang 330013, China
b.  State Key Laboratory of Nuclear Resources and Environment, East China
*Corresponding author: lizebing@ecut.edu.cn
A combined process including anaerobic biofilm and multi-stage AO biofilm is applied to the treatment of
swine wastewater. The research results show that the amount and quality of wastewater discharged by pig
farm  are  closely  related  to  the  environmental  temperature.  The  higher  the  temperature,  the  greater  the
wastewater volume, but the concentration of pollutants such as COD and nitrogen decreases; during the
process operation period, the removal rate of COD from the swine wastewater exceeds 80%, the removal
rate of ammonia nitrogen exceeds 85%, and the removal rate of total nitrogen exceeds 70%.
Fig.1. Photograph of reactor and wastewater samples
[1]  Li  ZB,  Han  F,  Zeng  SN,  et  al.  A  review  on  the  factors  affecting  the  removal  of  sulfonamides
from  breeding  wastewater
in  constructed  wetlands
Journal  of  Ecotoxicology,  2020,
15: (in Chinese)
Page 76 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Zebing Li, lecturer, master tutor. Mainly engaged in the teaching and scientific research of sewage biolog
ical treatment, research and development of new biological denitrification technology, and solid waste res
ource recovery. Presided over 1 National Natural Science Foundation project, 2 Municipal level scientific
research projects; participated in 4 National Natural Science Foundation projects, 1 BRICS international
cooperation project, and 3 Municipal level scientific research projects. Published more than 30 papers and
authorized 4 invention patents.
Page 77 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Health risk assessment of toxic heavy metals in waterbodies of Durgapur Steel city, India
Kankana Seal *a,b, Hirok Chaudhuria,d,  Sanhita Palc,
Soumen Basua, Mrinal Kanti Mandalb Supriya Pald,e
a Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
b Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
c Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Alberta, Edmonton,  Canada
dCenter  for  Research  on  Environment  and  Water  (CREW),  National  Institute  of  Technology  Durgapur,
eDepartment of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Health risk assessment of human, plants, aquatic living creatures and other animals becomes an important
and  urgent  task  to  understand  the  negative  impact  of  polluted  water  in  the  environment.    Health  index
assessment plays a vital role in the policy making and scientific management system of polluted water and
its remediation. Long term exposure of contaminated water causes a significant health hazard on the human
body.  Present work attempts to find probable health risks due to the high pollution level of few identified
heavy metals at Durgapur industrial city and its adjacent Raniganj-Asansol region, one of the eastern India's
most enriched industrial hubs. Continuous discharges of industrial waste degrade the water quality of both
surface water and groundwater resources of Durgapur city and nearby areas. It seems to be the first of its
kind  to  evaluate  the  spatial  distribution  of  concentration  of  toxic  heavy  metals  and  their  detrimental
influence on human bodies, which has not been reported earlier in Durgapur province. High concentrations
of heavy metals like Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, Cd, Cr, As, Hg and Co are contributing a potential health risk to the
inhabitants of Durgapur city and its adjacent areas. In this study, almost 32 groundwater samples and 20
surface water samples were evaluated to estimate the non-carcinogenic health risk of adults and children.
In addition, two parameters like hazard quotient (HQ) and hazard index (HI), were calculated for individual
heavy metals to map the zonal distribution of high health risks over this region. The alarming health risks
were found at extreme level near to thermal power plants, steel and chemical industries of mainly Durgapur
city. Apart from the health risk evaluation,  the spatial  distribution analysis confirmed high  groundwater
contamination. In addition, water streams of canals and rivers passing through industrial zones are found
to be more toxic than the rest of the surface water sources (ponds and lakes). The conclusion of this work
also denotes a probable solution to deal with heavy metal contamination to protect the environment.
Page 78 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Senior Researcher (Ph. D student)
Department of Physics and Department of Chemical Engineering &
BRICS research group
National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
She has expertise in the overall estimation of the pollution profile of selected industrial-based regions of
India and its possible remediation. Her current  study  area is  Damodar river basin,  India. The  aim of er
research  work  belongs  to  water  geochemistry  of  surface  water  /groundwater  bodies  of  Damodar  river
adjacent  area, assessing  the health risk of humans due to  the long-term  influence of toxicants  and their
spatial-statistical  analysis.  She  is  also  working  on  the  synthesis  of  photocatalytic  materials  to  remove
organic based pollutants from  wastewater in  Damodar river area. She has developed metal  oxide-based
photocatalytic materials by varying reaction conditions like temperature, ion concentration, aging time, etc.
Furthermore, she has analysed photocatalytic metal oxide samples from crystallographic aspects to find the
effect  of  morphological  evaluation  on  the  degradation  process  of  organic  compounds  in  wastewater  to
improve the removal efficiency.
Page 79 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Fate and Removal of Antibiotics and Poly Aromatic Hydrocarbons in Constructed Wetland: A
numerical modeling approach
Avishek Adhikary1*, Tapabrata Chakraborty2, Pradyumna Konar3, Supriya Pal4
1,3,4 Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, West Bengal-713209,
2 Department of Earth and Environmental Studies, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, West
In developing countries like India, Antibiotics, and Poly Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) use are rampant.
Hence, industrial wastewater is laden with humongous amounts of them. Wastewater treatment plants are
also neglected due to a lack of infrastructure, terrible design, poor maintenance, high operating costs, and
a  technical  workforce  shortage.  Constructed  Wetlands  (CWs)  are  a  low-cost,  natural,  eco-technological
biological wastewater treatment technique that imitates processes seen in natural wetland ecosystems and
are currently being considered as a potential alternative or additional wastewater treatment method.
Two of the most commonly used organic compounds, Erythromycin(ERY) and Naphthalene(NAPH), were
taken into consideration with initial concentrations of 25mg/L and 12mg/L, respectively, and studied to
assess their removal efficacy through a laboratory scale vertical one-dimensional column study, horizontal
tank study and through vertical surface flow constructed wetland, with the usage of locally available silty-
sandy soil as adsorbent.
The migratory behavior of ERY and NAPH through vertical soil column and horizontal tank test set up was
simulated  using  a  three-dimensional  HYDRUS  Standard  Solute  Transport  module.  The  same  through
laboratory-scale CW was modeled using a two-dimensional HYDRUS CW2D module. The modules use
the Galerkin-type linear finite element technique to solve Richard's equation for saturated-unsaturated water
flow and the Fickian advection-dispersion equation for heat and solute transport.
The 90% saturation of the 40 mm thick, 60 mm wide soil column was achieved around 1.3 days for ERY,
while for NAPH, it was around 1.5 days. Similarly, in the case of the numerical model of Tank having a
length of 400 mm, width 200 mm, and height 300 mm, it was found that 90% saturation occurred around
100 days and 105 days, respectively. In the case of CW, four different observation nodes were considered,
with the top one just below the soil surface and the subsequent nodes 10 cm apart from each other in the
vertical direction. The model time for CW was kept for 24 hours, with the input being at every 4 hours. The
maximum exit concentrations obtained from the bottom-most node were 1.9mg/L for ERY at the 8th hour
Page 80 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
and 0.85 mg/L for NAPH at the 12th hour of elapsed time. So, the maximum removal efficiency obtained
was 92.4 % for ERY and 92.9% for NAPH.
Keywords: Erythromycin; Naphthalene; Constructed Wetland; HYDRUS;
in  Environmental  Science  and
  Currently Pursuing PhD in Civil Engineering
  Numerical  modelling  of  water  and  solute
transport through sub-surface soil media.
  Water Resources and Pollution Treatment
  Analysis  and  design  of  wastewater  and  solid
waste containment structures.
  Journal/Book Chapter – 3
  Conference - 4
Page 81 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Derivation of Flow Duration Curves for prediction of Hydropower
Generation Potential: A case study from Southern Africa
G Z. Ndhlovua* and YE. Woyessaa
aDepartment of Civil Engineering, Central University of Technology,20 President Brand Street,Code 9300,
*Corresponding author: gndhlovu@cut.ac.za
Derivation of flow duration curves in data scarce regions for design of hydro power generation presents a
challenge that needs solutions. Further more flow duration curves for many river basins in Southern Africa
are still based on historical flow records without taking into account the future climate change scenarios.
Flow duration curves are a function of many factors which include;biophysical data such as topography,
landuse  land  cover,soils,precipitation,temperature  and  discharge  measurements.  Change  in  climate
corresponds to changes in flow duration curves which directly influence the existing hydropower generation
capacity and identified potential in selected sites. The study was undertaken with five GCM projections
based on baseline, RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5 climate scenarios for derivation of flow duration curves in order
to  determine  the  future  of  the  existing  small  scale  hydropower  generation  capacity  and  the  identified
potential. The calibrated SWAT model was applied for simulation of streamflows from GCM projections
which were then used for derivation of flow duration curves for  the three climate scenarios. The results
under  RCP  4.5  compared  with  baseline  show  that  there  will  be  insignificant  changes  in  flow  duration
curves. Whilst results under RCP 8.5 compared with baseline show considerable changes in flow duration
curves which is likely to affect the future hydropower  generation capacity and identified potential. The
results  predict  increased  hydropower  genaration  potential  for  existing  stations  and  identified  sites.
Furthermore the results also demonstrate the application of the derived flow duration curves in data scarce
regions  and ungauged catchments for estimation of hydropower generation potential in Southern Africa.
Keys words: climate change; flow duration curves; hydro power generation potential; simulations;
Page 82 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
NDHLOVU George Zayeqa, Doctor of Engineering (Civil), Ma (WREM), HD(Civil), Dip (Agric
Eng.), AMSAICE, FEIZ
George  Zayeqa  Ndhlovu  holds  a  Doctor  of  Engineering  (Civil)  degree  from  Central
University of Technology, South Africa. His doctoral studies focused on evaluation of the
impact of climate change on hydrology and water resources in the Upper Zambezi River
Basin. His contribution to the body of knowledge has been the quantification of the
impact  on  catchment  hydrology  and  water  resources  and  the  development  of
adaptation and mitigation strategies. He is currently involved in investigations of impact of climate change on
hydrology  and  water  resources  in  the  transboundary  river  basins  in  Southern  Africa.  Prior  to  his  doctoral
studies, He worked in the water and sanitation sector for 10 years.  Dr Ndhlovu also holds a Masters degree in
Geoinformation Science and Earth Observation, with a specialisation in integrated catchment and Water Resources
Management  from  ITC,  University  of  Twenty,  The  Netherlands.He  also  studied  civil  engineering  at  Copperbelt
University,  Kitwe,  Zambia and  Agricultural  Engineering  at  Natural  resources  Development  College,  University  of
Zambia,  Lusaka.  Zambia.  He  is  employed  as  a  lecturer  in  Civil  Engineering  Department  at  Central  University  of
Page 83 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – VII
Page 84 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Synthesis of triphase mesoporous TiO2 photocatalyst
for degradation of organic pollutants in wastewater
Kankana Seal *a,b, Hirok Chaudhuria,c,  Soumen Basua,
Mrinal Kanti Mandalb , Supriya Pald
a Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
b Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
c Center for Research on Environment and Water (CREW), National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
dDepartment of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Mesoporous TiO2 nanoparticles were synthesized by varying solvothermal temperature and synthesis pH. This work
is focused on the morphology evolution of triphase mesoporous TiO2 in terms of lattice defects of crystallographic
planes. Structural anisotropy of the prepared titania was observed to be enhanced with an increment of synthesis pH.
The prepared material was proven to be a better photocatalyst (efficiency > 99.5% in 80 minutes) than single-phase
anatase titania.  The prepared photocatalyst will be very useful for the degradation of organic pollutants in wastewater
to protect the environment.
KEYWORDS:  Triphase  TiO2,  solvothermal  reaction,  synthesis  pH,  morphological  evolution,  photocatalysis,
degradation of organic pollutant, wastewater
Page 85 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Hirok Chaudhuri
Dr.  Hirok  Chaudhuri  is  presently  working  as  an  Associate  Professor  at
Physics Department, NIT Durgapur (NITD). He is also acting as an adjunct
faculty  and  joint  coordinator  of  Center  for  Research  on  Environment  and
Water  at  NITD.  He  is  the  founder  coordinator  of  the  Science  Museum  at
NITD.  He  performed  Post-Doctoral  research  activity  at  VECC  (a  unit  of
Department  of  Atomic  Energy,  Government  of  India)  Kolkata,  India.  He
completed  his  Ph  D  Thesis  work  from  Saha  Institute  of  Nuclear  Physics,
Kolkata, India. Dr. Chaudhuri received several awards as a young scientist.
He was selected as a Fellow of Earth Science Society of India in 2015. He is
also working as an invited member of the International Thematic Group of the BRICS Network University
Programme  on  Water  Resources  and  Pollution  Treatment.  Dr.  Chaudhuri  received  Visiting  Scientist
Fellowship from Govt. of India, Department of Atomic Energy at VECC, Kolkata. He was also awarded
by ONGC (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation), India in 2009 for his major contribution in R & D Activity
on the country’s first Pressure Swing Adsorption based Prototype Helium Purification Plant at ONGC’s
Kuthalam  GCS,  Tamilnadu.  He  received  National  Scholarship  from  the  Government  of  West  Bengal,
Education Department, India in the year 1996.
Dr. Chaudhuri has a long-term working experience in the research areas: Geochemical Precursors
for  Earthquakes,  Geothermal  Exploration,  Helium  Exploration,  Environmental  Radioactivity,  Nonlinear
Dynamics.  Recently  he  started  research  activities  in  the  field  of  Wastewater  Treatment  using  nano-
technology.  Presently  he  is  working  as  investigators  of  three  research  projects  (both  national  and
international  status)  and  two  academic  and  societal  development  projects.  Dr.  Chaudhuri  successfully
completed three research projects funded by Govt. of India MHRD, SERB, DST. He has several research
publications  in  Peer  Reviewed  International  and  National  SCI,  Scopus  and  Web  of  Science  indexed
Journals  and  monographs  as  book  chapters.  He  has  more  than  40  publications  in  the  Proceedings  of
International / National Conferences. He is also working as a mentor for Research Student for Ph D Thesis
work and M. Tech (Advanced Material Science and Technology) and M. Sc. (Physics) Project Thesis work.
Dr. Chaudhuri delivers lectures in B. Tech., M. Tech (Advanced Material Science and Technology) and M.
Sc. (Physics) levels and also for Ph D course work. He delivered more than 45 invited talk at different parts
of the globe. He is also working as Reviewer in reputed international journals.
Page 86 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
TOWARDS GROUNDWATER MONITORING USING SATELLITE AND GROUND-
BASED OBSERVATIONS IN BRAZIL
Clyvihk Renna Camacho
Geological  Survey  of  Brazil-  CPRM,  Belo  Horizonte  and  Laboratory  of  Water  Resources  and
Environmental  Studies  (LABH2O),  Civil  Engineering  Program,  Alberto  Luiz  Coimbra  Institute  for
Postgraduate Studies and Research in Engineering – COPPE, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, CEP
21945-970, Rio de Janeiro – RJ, Brazil
Abstract. Estimates indicate that between 97-98% of available fresh water is groundwater and about 43%
of the total  use of water for irrigation is of underground origin.  Brazil is one of the largest  agricultural
producers in the world. In addition, the country has large aquifers with high storage and production capacity.
Furthermore,  about  56.8%  of  Brazilian  municipalities  have  underground  water  supply,  which  includes
industrial  production.  Accordingly  to  the  national  demands  and  given  the  importance  to  expand
hydrogeological knowledge, as of 2009, the Geological Service of Brazil - CPRM, started the installation
and operation of the Integrated Groundwater Monitoring Network (RIMAS), with continuous monitoring,
so that in the medium and long term, it can identify impacts to  groundwater as a result of exploitation,
building estimates of groundwater resource availability, among other information. Currently, RIMAS has
409  dedicated  monitoring  wells,  spread  across  the  largest  and  most  important  aquifers  in  Brazil.  The
monitoring of such extensive country requires great efforts from the Geological Survey of Brazil. In this
sense, the application of new aquifer monitoring technologies is a way to reduce research costs. Currently,
different monitoring methods are being tested. One of the most promising approaches is the application of
remotely sensed products, such as gravitational data provided by the GRACE mission (Gravity Recovery
and  Climate  Experiment),  which,  jointly  with  in  situ  measurements,  can  be  associated  with  artificial
intelligence models. Such alternative will foster the development of new tools for a greater coverage of the
Brazilian territory and corresponding study of regional aquifers.
Keywords:  Groundwater, Aquifers Monitoring, Remote Sensing, Artificial Intelligence
Page 87 of 124
Clyvihk Renna Camacho
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
MSc. Clyvihk Renna Camacho, Researcher in Geological Survey of Brazil and PhD candidate at the
Civil Engineering Program, Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute for Postgraduate Studies and Research
in Engineering – COPPE,  Federal University of Rio de Janeiro - UFRJ, Brazil.
Geologist Engineer from the School of Mines, Federal University of Ouro Preto - UFOP (2013), Masters
in Geology – Federal University of Ceará - UFC (2016). Since 2014, he is researcher in Geological Survey
of Brazil in hydrogeology area. He has worked on several groundwater research projects, being a permanent
researcher at the Integrated Groundwater Monitoring Network - RIMAS (since 2014). He works in research
and monitoring of the quality and quantity of groundwater, in the development of hydrogeological and of
hydro-geochemical  models,  in  structural  geology,  remote  sensing  and  applied  geophysics.  He  develops
models based on Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Deep Learning for hydrogeology.
Page 88 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
A Runoff Simulation Model for Lower Gangetic Plain of India.
[1]Kush Kumar Dey, [2] Dr.Vijay Kumar Dwivedi, [3]Dr. Satanand Mishra.
[1]Research Scholar, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India.
[2]Professor, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India.
[3]Sr. Scientist, CSIR, Advanced Materials Processes Research Institute, Bhopal, India.
[1]kushdey242@gmail.com, [2]vkdwivedi10725@yahoo.co.in, [3]snmishra07@gmail.com,
River Ganges traversing a distance of about 2525 km from Gangotri in the Lower Himalayas to Hubli at
the mouth of Bay of Bengal is life line of about 40% (check) of populace living in Indian sub-continent.
Discharge in the river Ganges varies along longitudinal distance along the course of the river due to change
in climate and hydrological input in different reaches and changing topographical characteristics converting
the hydrological input (forcing) to hydrological output for satiating the needs of the living beings dependent
on this holy river. Due to varied output available all along the course of River Ganges, the quality of life
along different reaches of the River Ganges varies to a great extent. There has been constant attempt to
predict accurately the hydrological output from different sub-basins of River Ganges at spatial-temporal
scale. Reaches along the River Ganges have broadly been categorised in Upper Gangetic Region, Middle
Gangetic  Region  and  Lower  Gangetic  Region.    Extensive  work  has  been  done  to  model  the  climate
variability on hydrological output of upper and middle reaches of River Ganges but not for lower reaches
of  River  Ganges,  particularly  the  plateau  region  draining  into  the  river.  Wide  spread  change  in  water
availability in this plateau region have been observed and this change in water availability is getting more
sporadic with climate change. The existing methods for simulation of runoff from the plateau region of
Lower Ganges covering district of Purulia on Lower Gangetic Plain (Zone no-III, Eastern slope of Chhota
Nagpur  Plateau)  lying  in  the  State  of  West  Bengal  do  not  give  satisfactory  results  as  compared  to  the
observed runoff  Therefore, in the present study, a runoff simulation model for the plateau region of Lower
Ganges  covering  district  of  Purulia  has  been  developed  by  employing  concepts  of  Artificial  Neural
Networks (ANNs) by which relative impact of different climatic variables such as  rainfall, temperature,
cloud cover, evaporation, potential evapotranspiration, and relative humidity for the district of Purulia on
the surface runoff from the district area could be assessed. Real-time data series of 116 years (1901-2016)
for the ten meteorological stations of district Purulia from  India Meteorological Department, Pune have
been used for developing the ANNs model for predicting surface runoff. The available data were separated
as  70%  for  training,  15%  for  testing,  and  15%  for  validation.  Back  propagation  algorithm  has  been
Page 89 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
developed  to  compute  surface  runoff.  Nash-Sutcliffe  Efficiency  criteria  has  been  employed  to  estimate
efficiency of the developed model which has 97% efficiency in accurately predicting the surface runoff.
KEYWORDS: Runoff, Simulation, Artificial Neural Networks, Climate Change, District Purulia.
Page 90 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
DAY 3 (July 8, 2021)
Page 91 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – VIII
Page 92 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 93 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 94 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
ATMOSPHERIC PROFILE EVALUATION USING RADIOSONDES AND MODIS
SATELLITE PRODUCTS OVER THE CITY OF RIO DE JANEIRO - RJ - BRAZIL
Louise Caroline Carvalho dos Santos
Laboratory  of  Water  Resources  and  Environmental  Studies  (LABH2O),  Civil  Engineering  Program,
Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute for Postgraduate Studies and Research in Engineering – COPPE, Federal
University of Rio de Janeiro, CEP 21945-970, Rio de Janeiro – RJ, Brazil
Abstract.  Dynamic  and  thermodynamic  patterns  of  the  atmosphere  are  well  known  to  be  essential
information to mesoscale and local hydrometeorological modeling. Further efforts are being developed to
generate improvements on weather forecasting and nowcasting increasingly dependent on the association
of ground and remotely sensed datasets. The extraction of datasets from the vertical profile of the local
atmosphere  and  surrounding  areas  can  indeed  indicate  proper  conditions  for  the  occurrence  of  rainfall.
Atmospheric  profile  information  can  be  obtained  by  launching  radiosondes  and  by  on-board  sensors
installed on a variety of satellite platforms. Given the posed framework, it is proposed to investigate the use
of vertical atmospheric profile products from satellites in comparison to radiosondes at the daily scale. Such
information reflects atmospheric behavior regarding potential scenarios of rainfall. In the present work, we
studied atmospheric profiles over the city of Rio de Janeiro, which depicts a long history of severe rainfalls.
MODIS products acquired by sensors on board the AQUA and TERRA satellites and radiosondes launched
along the years 2016 - 2018 were used. More specifically, seven days were selected along the referred time
span to establish the proposed comparison. It is noteworthy to say that a case of heavy rainfall took place
in Rio de Janeiro in one of the days analyzed. The results indicate a strong positive correlation between the
variables estimated by MODIS and the data from the soundings, highlighting the feasibility of using satellite
product over the region.
Keywords:  Atmospheric Profile,  MODIS Products, Radiosondes, Rainfall
Page 95 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Louise Caroline Carvalho dos Santos
BSc.  Louise  Caroline  Carvalho  dos  Santos,  Researcher  in  Water
Resources Engineering and M.Sc. candidate at the Civil Engineering
Program,  Alberto  Luiz  Coimbra  Institute  for  Postgraduate  Studies
and Research in Engineering – COPPE, Federal University of Rio de
Janeiro - UFRJ, Brazil.
Meteorologist, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro - UFRJ (2018), Meteorology Technician – CEFET/RJ
(2011). For her final work to the B.Sc. degree in 2018, she presented a case study of heavy rainfall over the
city of Rio de Janeiro analyzing the synoptic scale and mesoscale with reanalysis data along with an in-
depth research about atmospheric patterns associated with heavy rainfall cases over the history of the city.
In 2019, she started developing research works on hydrometeorology using remotely sensed data.
Page 96 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
COVID 19: Blessings or hazard to the water quality
Trina Dutta1*, Hirok Chaudhuri2,3
1Department of Chemistry, JIS College of Engineering, Kalyani, Nadia, West Bengal 741235, India,
ORCID ID: https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3909-6153
2Department of Physics, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, West Bengal 713209, India, ORCID
3Center for Research on Environment and Water, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, West
Bengal 713209, India
Since  2020,  different  countries  worldwide  are  forced  to  opt  lockdown  as  one  of  the  measures  to  retard
COVID 19 contamination.  In the immediate effect of lockdown, the surface water quality of rivers and
lakes improved as the industrial and human activities decreased. Also, the reduction of vehicle movement
improved the ambient of water quality which is directly connected with the air quality.
But the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in the feces of infected patients has drawn attention to the potential risk
of faecal-oral transmission of COVID-19 through intake of river water. Also, the use of wastewater may be
an epidemiological tool.
This paper analyses the benefit and hazard potential of COVID 19 on water quality. It also suggests the
urgent need for domestic sewage management which is directly discharged into the river.
Keywords:  COVID-19,  Reduced  activities,  Water  quality  parameters,  Faecal-oral  transmission,  Risk
1.  Ali  P.  Yunus,  Yoshifumi  Masago,  Yasuaki  Hijioka;  “COVID-19  and  surface  water  quality:  Improved  Lake  water
quality during the lockdown”, Science of the Total Environment 731 (2020) 139012
2.  Mohammad Adil Aman, Mohd Sadiq Salman, Ali P. Yunus; “COVID-19 and its impact on environment: Improved
pollution levels during the lockdown period – A case from Ahmedabad, India”, Remote Sensing Applications: Society
and Environment 20 (2020) 100382
3.  Ramsha Khan, Abhishek Saxena, Saurabh Shukla, Selvam Sekar, Pooja Goel; “Effect of COVID-19 lockdown on the
water quality index of River Gomti, India, with potential hazard of faecal-oral transmission”, Environmental Science
and Pollution Research (2021) 28:33021–33029, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11356-021-13096-1
4.  Polo  D.  et.  al.  “Making  waves:  Wastewater-based  epidemiology  for  COVID-19  –approaches  and  challenges  for
surveillance and prediction”, Water Research 186 (2020) 116404.
Page 97 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 98 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – IX
Page 99 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Strategies for treatment of hospital wastewater using integrated technology
Kashyap Kumar Dubey
School of Biotechnology, JNU, New Delhi-India
India is lacking of hospital wastewater treatment process to remove antineoplastic agents from wastewater
in hospitals (mainly in metro city). European Union countries like Portugal and Belgium are sharing the
same  situation  in  which  antineoplastic  agents  are  not  removed  specifically,  reaching  conventional
wastewater treatment plants that are not able to destroy these persistent components, reaching the aquatic
environment. In addition, the increasing rate of cancer patients all over the world has become a global fact
during the last two decades. Keeping in the view, the necessity of specific treatment methods for removal
of antineoplastic agents (Cyclophosphamide, 5-flurouracil, Etoposide) developed with the integration of
biological and membrane technology.
Page 100 of 124
Kashyap Kumar Dubey (Ph.D, M.Tech.) M.N.A.Sc.
School of Biotechnology
Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
Mobile No. +91-9996122280
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Prof. Dubey is currently working as Associate Professor at School of Biotechnology, JNU New Delhi. Prof.
Dubey received his PhD degree in 2008 in the area of Industrial Biotechnology. Dr. Dubey has research
interest in biochemical engineering and wastewater treatment which includes process development of value
added  pharmaceutical  products  (3-demethylated  colchicine,  betulin,  CoQ10,  pullulan  and  lipstatin),
through optimization of enzyme reactions and toxicological studies of micro-pollutants.
He is having grants from DST-BRICS, European Commission (IPP1) on Clean Water for Health, BIRAC-
DBT and DBT on microbial process development. He has been completed Four major research projects
and published 50 research articles in International reputed Journals. He is a Member of Various Scientific
societies  like  BRSI,  NASc,  ISCA,  SBC,  DST-INSPIRE,  MSI,  ISCB,  IFbioP,  and  AMI.  He  has  been
organised Four National Conferences, Conducted 03 GIAN courses, and 01 STTP. He has delivered several
expert  lectures  in  various  scientific  events.  He  significantly  published  in  the  area  of  biocommodity
engineering and wastewater. His effort has been to develop low cost technology which would lead to lesser
Page 101 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Removal of Chromium (VI) from Aqueous Solution Using Low Cost Bio-
Adsorbents  :  A comparison on performances,  Isotherms and Kinetics
Radha Das *a  ,   Arghyadeep  De *a,   Amit  Mukherjee *a,   Ishita Sinha a, b,
a Department of Chemical Engg,  Haldia institute of technology. Haldia -721657, India
b Sr. Project Engineer, Project Engineering Division, Linde India Limited., Kolkata, India :
Email Corresponding & presenting Author :   :  radha.das6@gmail.com,  deyarghyadeep50@ gmail.com
Effluents  from    various  industries  like  leather  tanning  ,  electroplating,  dye,  cement,  petrochemicals  etc  where
chromium salts are widely used, contains toxic  hexavalent chromium ,Cr(VI) with concentration  of 10th to 100th
ppm  level.  In  order  to  get  rid  of  health  hazard  due  to  long  term  exposure  of  Cr(VI),  feasible  cost  effective
technologies for its removal are in high  demand which would eventually save aquatic & human lives.
In this work adsorption of chromium (VI) compound from aqueous solution  were investigated using Indian Neem
leaf powder (NLP),   Rice Husk and Sugarcane bagasse using  adsorption process at various pH and  temperature .
It was found  that the removal of Cr(IV)  increases with the increase of time of contact  and adsorbent amount but
decreases with increase of solute concentration .  The concentration of  free Cr(VI) ions in the effluent is determined
Spectro-Photometrically at 540 nm. The results show that about 95-99 %  reduction of  Cr(VI) may be  achieved
successfully depending on nature of adsorbents.   An attempt has been made to find out the rate constants of this
sorption  process    using    first  order  reversible,  pseudo  first  order  and  pseudo  second    order  kinetic  model.
Applicability  of  Freundlich  Isotherm  and  rearranged  Langmuir  model  has  been  investigated.  The  maximum
adsorption of Cr(VI) was obtained as 102.04 mg/gm  using NLP comparing to other adsorbents. A comparison of
Cr(IV)  adsorption  performance  of  some  adsorbents  have  been  observed  an  presented  here.
y = 0.0098x + 0.005
R² = 0.999
NLP : 0.3 g/l
NLP : 0.5 g/l
NLP : 1.0 g/l
Fig.1 : Langmuir Isotherm, NLP : 0.5 g/l, pH: 1.29, at  302 K         Fig. 2: Effect of adsorbent (NLP) amount on Cr (IV)
removal  (Solute : 10 mg/l,  pH: 1.29, at  302 K)
Page 102 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
(Dr). Radha  Das
Professor & Dean (School of Chemical, Bio –Tech  & Food Technoly)
:    Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology , W.B
Department Of Chemical Engg, Haldia Institute of Technology
ICARE Complex , Haldia : 721657 , West Bengal,  India.
Prof  (Dr).  Radha Das   (FICS, LMIIChE, LMISTE, LMIEI) :
Dr. Radha Das completed  B.Tech, M.Tech, Ph. D in Chemical Engg. from
University of  Calcutta and Post Doc. from University of  Torino, Italy and
presently  engaged  as  Dean  (School  of  Chemical  ,  Biotech  and  Food
Technology)  at  Haldia  Institute  of  Technology,  West  Bengal  .  She  has
published about 77 papers in various national and international journals and
conferences.  Received Gold Medal from Calcutta University in 2010 . Best
paper award -2000 and Certificate of  Merit award - 2008 from Institute of
Engineers India (IEI) .  She was awarded “Teacher of the year Award”  from
West Bengal University of Technology in 2017.  She is engaged as reviewer
and editor of many  international  reputed Journals.  She served as national  council member  of   Indian
Institute of Chemical Engineers , IIChE during 2012 and 2015-2017, also as Honorary Registrar of  IIChE
during 2016. She is the founder secretary of  Haldia Regional centre of  IIChE.. She is actively engaged
with various research work in the field of Ceramic Membranes,  Environmental Science, Separation Process
and Adsorption Process.
Page 103 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Comparative study of water analysis kits for evaluating fluoride removal using
Potash Alum modified salty clay ceramic filters in Pali district, Rajasthan, India
Sunil Duhan1, Badal Kumar1, Anuj1, Nirmal Gehlot2, Hanwant Rathore2, Meraj Ahmad1, Himanchal1,
Pankaj Jakhar1, Ambesh Dixit3, Pradip K Tewari3 and Anand Plappally3
1Student, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur, India
2 Project Assistant, Unnat Bharat Abhiyan RCI, Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur, India
3Faculty, Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development, Indian Institute of Technology,
Corresponding Author Email: sunil.2@iitj.ac.in
Abstract: A field survey conducted in 2019-20 revealed that many villagers at Hingola Kalan Village, Pali
district,  Rajasthan,  India, were suffering from  fluorosis. The drinking water was found to  have fluoride
beyond WHO limits. Survey forms with questionnaires related to socio-economic parameters and water
filter used in the area were distributed to 26 volunteering individuals. A pilot intervention based on salty
clay ceramic water filters with raw material modification was performed to solve the fluoride contamination
of drinking water. These filters were manufactured with an addition of 5% by volume of Potash Alum.
Participants were encouraged to use these modified filters and water samples (both filtered and non-filtered)
were collected for the duration of the experiment. Questions regarding the maintainability of these filters,
medical assistance availability, education status of users, and their socio-economic status were recorded
during the 3-month experiment. The samples were tested in labs using three testing kits, namely, LTEK
Fluoride testing kit, Aqua-XL water analysis kit, and ProaKtive kit. Statistical analysis showed that there
is a significant reduction in fluoride concentrations after using these filters. Out of 3 kits, LTEK and Aqua-
XL kits were found to be more accessible, handy, and easy to use. The implication leads to the need of risk
assessment of kits commercially available to rural populations of India to testify the presence of fluoride in
Page 104 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Name                                      Sunil Duhan
Designation                           Research Scholar
Affiliation                              IIT Jodhpur
Address                                  105 B5 IIT JODHPUR RAJASTHAN
Page 105 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Session – X
Page 106 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Climate Change and its impact in occurrences of droughts and floods,
threat to water conservation and right to life – A study with special
reference to India
Authors Name : Dr. Susmita Dhar, Asst. Professor, Sister Nivedita Univeristy
Email ID : susmitadhar00@gmail.com
Climate change is the most important global problem of this hour. Global warming is increasing day by day
and the climate changes  to extreme weather events. The anthropogenic activities are  the direct cause of
such extreme weather events and climate change. The catastrophic changes of the atmosphere results in
unprecedented  heat  weaves,  severe  drought,  sharp  sea  level  rises,  crop  damage,  flood,  spreading  of
infectious disease and extinction of biodiversity etc. It is a climate emergency because we don’t have planet
B we need to transfer this beautiful habitat to the upcoming generations with sustainable development. The
climate emergency is a modern curse of present global scenario which is harmful to human right to life and
Water is life and 71% of the earth surface is covered by water though only 1% can be consumed as drinking
water. Access to safe drinking water is now human fundamental right. Water security preservation of water
is the main threat due to exposure of floods and droughts, global warming. The Southeast Asia including
India  is  at  economic  risk  of  flooding.  India  is  the  country  of  130  crore  people,  is  striving  for  water
preservation and conservation as it is an agriculture based country. Flood and drought are rampant due to
extreme climate event and cyclones and tsunamis. India is facing the problem of delayed monsoon due to
climatic change and melting of Himalayan glaciers which causes flood situations worsen. In this paper the
author try to throw some light on the impact of climatic change in occurrences of flood and drought which
become a threat to water conservation and right to life in India with legal mechanism and judicial notion
Key  Words  :  Climate  Change,  Extreme  Weather  Event,  Water  Conservation,  Right  to  Life,  Legal
Mechanism and Judicial Notion regarding Water Protection in India.
Page 107 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Susmita Dhar
Name : Dr. Susmita Dhar, Ph.D, NET (Law)
Nationality : Indian
Experience : The paper presenter is currently attached to academics for 6 years and served as a guest lecturer
in  the  department  of  law  of  the  Burdwan  University  and  Calcutta  University  both  for  years.  Presently
attached to Sister Nivedita University as Asst. Professor, Law. Before joining academics she served as an
advocate in the Calcutta High Court from 2003 specially in writ and criminal side. The author has presented
25 papers in national and international seminars and having 16 publication of her credit. The research topic
of the author in Ph.D was “IPR IN TRANSFER OF CLIMATE CONTROLLING TECHNOLOGY AND
ITS IMPACT IN INDIA – A LEGAL STUDY”. From the University of Burdwan, Law Department, the
researcher completed her Ph.D in 2020 and from the Hazra Law College, Calcutta University completed
LL.M in 2010.
Designation  /  Position  /  Affiliation  :  Asst.  Professor,  Grade  –  II,  Sister  Nivedita  University,  Newtown,
Kolkata, Department of Law, DG Block(Newtown), Action Area I, Newtown, New Town, West Bengal
Residential Address : Rai Apartment, Flat No. – G1, 53/M, J.N. Lahiri Road, Lahiri Park, P.O. – Serampore,
Dist. – Hooghly, Pin – 712201, W.B.
Email ID : susmitadhar00@gmail.com
Phone Number : 9830303079
Page 108 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Defluoridation of Water using Ion-Exchange Resin
Debdas Chowdhury1, Pankaj Kumar Roy2, and Arunabha Majumder3
1Junior Research Fellow, School of Water Resources Engineering, Jadavpur University
2Professor and Joint Director, School of Water Resources Engineering, Dean of FISLM, Jadavpur University
3Emeritus Professor, School of Water Resources Engineering, Jadavpur University
Email ID: dev.chowdhury93@gmail.com1
The ionic form of fluoride is distributed unevenly throughout the environment. Fluorides can be found in
minerals, rock, soil, clay, and anthropogenic activities as sedimentary deposits. Due to fluoride's significant
toxicity to humans, it is essential to treat fluoride-contaminated drinking water to make it safe to consume.
According to WHO recommendations, the maximum amount of fluoride allowed in drinking water is 1.5
mg/l. Fluorosis affects both teeth and bone at levels higher than this, resulting in dental, skeletal, and non-
skeletal  fluorosis.  This  study  shows  that  fluoride  can  be  removed  from  drinking  water  using  an  Ion
Exchange method including cationic and anionic resin. The sorptive removal capability of fluoride from
water is studied using cationic and anionic resin. The fluoride removal capacity is high when cation-anion
exchange resin bed is combined with sand and gravel beds as the filter media, but the pH of the treated
water decreases rapidly. When only anionic resin bed is utilized with sand and gravel beds as a filter media,
however,  the  fluoride  removal  capacity  remains  high,  and  the  pH,  TDS  (Total  Dissolved  Solids),  EC
(Electrical  Conductivity), Total  Alkalinity and Total Hardness  of the treated water meet  drinking  water
standards.  The  Maximal  sorption  of  cationic-anionic  resins  and  anionic  resins  is  found  to  be  around
521.25mg/kg and 509.5mg/kg respectively. Freundlich model is found to show better means to describe
fluoride adsorption at equilibrium.
Page 109 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Name: Debdas Chowdhury
Designation/Position: Junior Research Fellow
Affiliation: Jadavpur University
Address: Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032
Email ID: dev.chowdhury93@gmail.com
Page 110 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
WATER SCARCITY CHALLENGES & ALTERNATIVE
Sritama Chatterjee1, Pankaj Kumar Roy2, Arunabha Majumder3 and Malabika Biswas Roy4
1Ph.D. student, School of Water Resources Engineering, Jadavpur University, 188/2 R.S.C. Mullick Road, Jadavpur,
Kolkata - 700032
2Professor and Dean Faculty of Interdisciplinary Law and Management, Jadavpur University, 188/2 R.S.C. Mullick
Road, Jadavpur, Kolkata – 700032
3Emeritus Professor, School of Water Resources Engineering, Jadavpur University, 188/2 R.S.C. Mullick Road,
Jadavpur, Kolkata – 700032
4Assitant Professor, Dept. of Geography, Women’s College Calcutta, Kolkata – 700003
{Corresponding author’s email: sritama21@icloud.com}
Global water scenario is evident that freshwater resources are discreetly spread and limited from view point
of  direct  utility.  Their  utility  is  high  in  different  sectors  such  as  agriculture,  domestic,  industrial  and
environment. In view of global population growth rate and increasing water demand it can be envisioned
fresh water scarcity is global phenomenon 21st century is confronting. This raises several challenges before
future generation regarding sustainability of existing fresh water resources, an alternative option and no
compromise in water quality of resources to be used. India with second largest population in the world is
no exception in water scarcity scenario. 54% of Indian water resources are reported to be scarce. The Central
Ground Water Board (CGWB) as per Falkenman water scarcity index classifies India into critical, semi-
critical and safe regions in addition to their findings of over-exploited, saline regions and unassessed hilly
regions. This has accounted for physical water scarcity but economic water scarcity has not been accounted
for. This study considers United Nation Commission on Sustainable Development on water scarcity index
based on Annual Water Resource of India. This study put forward the water scarcity index blind to diversion
of used water for various water utility sectors. However, consumptive use of water should be taken into
account.  Present  study envisages to  depend on alternative solution  to  water utility in  present  context  of
water  scarcity  in  India  as  well  as  in  global  scenario  to  meet  the  future  demand.  The  major  problem  in
alternative  source  is  quality  issue  which  can  be  encountered  through  application  of  various  available
technologies and arrive at a solution.
Keywords: Fresh water scarcity, Water quality, Consumptive use, Alternative source
Page 111 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
SCHOOL OF WATER RESOURCES
188 R.S.C. MULLICK ROAD
JADAVPUR, KOLKATA – 700032
Page 112 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Managing the Blue Gold: A study of the Water-Energy-Food Nexus in Indus River
Author(s): Mohd Kamil Vakil* and Nabeela Siddiqui**
* Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, 208016 Kanpur, India;
Email: kamilvakil@gmail.com; Mobile: 8279938099 (Presenter)
** CHRIST (Deemed to be) University, Delhi-NCR, India, nabeelsiddiqui09@gmail.com
The conflict over water between India and Pakistan has been and is again making headlines. The Indus
Waters Treaty (IWT) has survived diplomatic disputes for nearly sixty years, but current upstream water
infrastructure  projects  have  reignited  difficulties.  Climate  change's  deteriorating  effects  on  Himalayan
glaciers may increase the incidence of disasters and jeopardize populations' long-term water security. Under
present usage and storage patterns, many communities in the Indus Basin confront water shortages. This
paper evaluates the water, energy, and food nexus (WEFN) in the Indus River of India and Pakistan.
Fears of future water shortages as a result of dam construction have strained relations between India and
Pakistan. Furthermore, the IWT does not examine the impact of the water-energy-agriculture nexus on the
overall water crisis and management. The potential of different alternative water allocation mechanisms
and water infrastructure developments to address growing water, energy, and food security concerns in the
country will be assessed. While more flexible surface water allocation policies can mitigate negative climate
change impacts on agricultural water and energy use allowing for larger crop and hydro-power production,
such policies might also increase the inter-annual variability of resource use. Moreover, a more flexible
surface water allocation policy would increase surface water use in the basin, while groundwater and energy
use would be lower.
Page 113 of 124
Mohd Kamil Vakil
Research Scholar, IIT Kanpur
He is working in the areas of environmental engineering and management with
a  primary  focus  on  agricultural  sustainability.  His  research  areas  include
agricultural inputs, outputs, and biodegradable losses associated with crop and
livestock production. Kamil holds a B.Tech. in Civil Engineering and M.Tech
in environmental engineering from Aligarh Muslim University, India. He is an
active  member  of  United  Nations’  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  -
Agriculture,  Forestry  and  Other  Land  Use  (FAO-AFOLU),  International
Sustainable  Development  Research  Society  (ISDRS),  American  Society  of
Civil Engineers (ASCE), etc.
Indian, Research Scholar,
CHRIST (Deemed to be University), Delhi-NCR
Her  research  revolves  around  Water  Conflicts.  She  has  completed  her
B.A.LL.B (Hons) from Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India. She was
awarded the prestigious President of India, Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma Gold
medal,  The  Innes  Prize,  The  Carmicheal  Prize,  and  The  V.  Suresham
Memorial  Award  for  her  Masters  (LL.M.)  from  University  of  Madras,
Chennai,  India.  She  has  previously  worked  as  a  Research  cum  Teaching
Assistant at National Law University, Jabalpur, and as a Research Assistant
at the National Green Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi. She is an active
member  of The  Global  Network  for  Human  Rights  and  the  Environment
(GNHRE)  and The International  Society for Therapeutic  Jurisprudence
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 114 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 115 of 124
LIST OF THE REGISTERED PARTICIPANTS
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Hirok Chaudhuri
Prof. Y. M. Joshi
Prof. Anupam Basu
Position and Affiliation
Associate Professor, Department of Physics and
Center for Research on Environment and Water
National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Dean of International Relations,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
Director, National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Prof. Abhay Karandikar
Director, Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, India
Prof. Faizal Bux
Prof. Vinod Tare
Dr. Supriya Pal
Prof. Kalyan Adhikari
Prof. Pathik Kumbhakar
Prof. Ajit Kumar Meikap,
Dr. Mrinal Kanti Mandal,
Prof. R. N. Saha,
Prof. Dawei Wang
Director, Institute for Water and Wastewater Technology,
Durban University of Technology, South Africa
Professor, Department of Civil Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
Member of ITG (BRICS NUs);
Associate Professor, Department of Civil Engineering,
National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Department of Earth and Environmental Studies,
Dean Academic Research, NIT, Durgapur,
Professor, Department of Physics, National Institute of
Technology Durgapur, India,
Dean Research and Consultancy, NIT, Durgapur,
Professor, Department of Physics, NIT Durgapur, India,
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of
Technology Durgapur, India,
Department of Chemistry, National Institute of Technology
Professor, College of Environment, Hohai University,
Prof. Nilo Nascimento
Professor,  Department  of  Hydraulic  and  Water  Resources
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil
Dr. Jiale Li
Lecturer, School of Water Resource and Environmental
Engineering, East China University of Technology, China
Dr. Cesar Rossas Mota Filho  Associate Professor, Department of Sanitary and
Environmental Engineering at the Federal University of
Minas Gerais (UFMG), Brazil.
Dr. Sheena Kumari
Ms. Kankana Seal
Associate Professor, Durban University of Technology
(DUT), South Africa
Ph D Student, Department of Physics,
NIT Durgapur, India
Page 116 of 124
Mr. Dmitry Baranov
Dr. Abhik Chatterjee
Mr. Aakash Mohan Rawat
PhD student, Junior Researcher  Dmitry Baranov;
Vernadsky Institute of Geochemistry and Analytical
Chemistry of RAS, Moscow
Department of Chemistry, Raiganj University, Raiganj,
Ph D Student, Department of Geology, S.R.T Campus,
HNB Garhwal University, Uttarakhand, India
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Ms. Bipasha  Mridha  Ghosh  Assistant Professor,
Dr. Chunendra K Sahu
Mr. Himanchal Bhardwaj
Dr. Yihui Dong
Dr. Ismail Rawat
Dr. Talita Silva
Ms. Suvashree Mukherjee
Prof. Yali Woyessa
Dr. Evgeniya Soldatova
Prof. Otto Corrêa Rotunno
Prof. Pankaj Kumar Roy
Dr. Zebing Li
Dr. Nabanita Pal
Mr. Avishek Adhikary
Dr. G Ndhlovu
Dr. Hirok Chaudhuri
Department of Science (Env. Science)
NSHM Knowledge Campus Durgapur, India
Assistant Professor, Department of Civil Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, India
Ph D Student, Inter-Disciplinary Research Platform of
Space Science and Technology, Indian Institute of
Technology, Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India
Lecturer, School of Water Resource and Environmental
Engineering, East China University of Technology, China
Durban University of Technology (DUT), South Africa
Adjunct professor Department of Hydraulic Engineering
and Water Resources at the Universidade Federal de Minas
Gerais (UFMG), Brazil
Ph D Student, Center for Research on Environment and
Water, NIT Durgapur, India
Central University of Technology, South Africa
Senior Researcher, Vernadsky Institute of Geochemistry
and Analytical Chemistry of RAS, Moscow
Professor, Civil Engineering Program, COPPE/UFRJ,
Federal University of Rio de Janeiro
Dean, Faculty of Interdisciplinary Studies, Law &
Management, Jadavpur university, Professor & Joint
School of Water Resources Engineering, Jadavpur
Lecturer, School of Water Resource and Environmental
Engineering, East China University of Technology, China
Department of Physics and Chemistry
Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology (MGIT)
Hyderabad - 500075, India
Ph D Student
Department of Civil Engineering,
NIT Durgapur, India
Lecturer, Department of Civil Engineering, Central
University of Technology, South Africa
Associate Professor, Department of Physics, National
Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Center for Research on Environment and Water, NIT
Mr. Clyvihk Renna Camacho   Ph. D. Student
Mr. Kush Kumar Dey
Dr. Mrinal Kanti Mandal
Ms. Louise Caroline
Carvalho dos Santos
Dr. Trina Dutta
Prof. Kashyap Dubey
Civil Engineering Program at COPPE/UFRJ
Researcher, Geological Survey of Brazil
Ph D Student, National Institute of Technology Durgapur,
Associate Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering,
National Institute of Technology Durgapur, India
Meteorologist, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro – UFRJ
M.Sc. Student, Civil Engineering Program, Alberto Luiz
Coimbra Institute for Postgraduate Studies and Research in
Engineering – COPPE, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro
- UFRJ, Brazil.
Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, JIS College
of Engineering, Kalyani, Nadia, West Bengal 741235, India
Associate Professor, School of Biotechnology
Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India
Page 117 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Prof. Radha Das
Mr. Sunil Duhan
Dr. Susmita Dhar,
Mr. Debdas Chowdhury
Ms. Sritama Chatterjee
Ms. Nabeela Siddiqui
Mohd Kamil Vakil
Professor & Dean (School of Chemical, Bio –Tech  & Food
Technoly), Haldia Institute of Technology, India
Ph D Student, Department of Mechanical Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur, India
Assistant Professor, Department of Law, Sister Nivedita
Univeristy, DG Block, New Town, West Bengal 700156,
Ph D Student, School of Water Resources Engineering,
Jadavpur University, Kolkata, India
Ph.D. Student, School of Water Resources Engineering,
Jadavpur University, 188/2 R.S.C. Mullick Road, Jadavpur,
Kolkata – 700032, India
Ph D Student, CHRIST (Deemed to be University), Delhi-
Teaching Assistant, National Law University, Jabalpur
Judicial Clerk, National Green Tribunal, Principal Bench,
Ph D Student, IIT Kanpur, India
Mr. S. Kamalakar
Dr. Prerna Choubey
SAGE University, Indore
Dr. KULATHURAAN. K
Dr Gopal sharma
Mr. Susanta Kumar Parida
of Arts and Culture, Palani, Tamil Nadu
Chaudhary  charan  Singh  university
Lokanath Mohavidyalaya, Patkura
Dr. Rajeev Kumar Bhadkariya
Govt. P. G. College Morena (M. P.)
Dr. Priti Saini Agrawal
Dr Jayashri Yuvaraj Jadhav
Shri  Rawatpura  Sarkar  University,
University  of  Mumbai,  Sundarrao More
Arts  Commerce  and  Science  College
Mr. Ritik sachan
Babu banarasi das university Lucknow
Mr. YAWAR ALAMGEER
Dr Subhadra Rajpoot
Lalit  Narayan  Mithila  University
Amity university greater noida
Dr Kamala Haripal
Sonepur College Sonepur
Ms. Himani Chandel
Mr. Sunil Kumar Sharma
School  of  Biotechnology,  Shoolini
Mr. P SAI KIRAN
Dr. Dipanjan Ray
Bajkul Milani Mahavidyalay
Dr. Syed Rafi Ahmad
Government Degree College Pulwama
Dr. Ainal Hoque Gazi
ICFAI university Tripura
Mr. Ahamed Ali
Ms Manu Yadav
Dr. Gulshan Akhtar
Hamidia  Girl's  Degree  College,
University of Allahabad
Mr. Sameer Ahmad
Asansol  Institute  of  Engineering  and
Jamia Millia Islamia
Institute of Engineering & Management
Mr. Sudhakar Kadam
Page 118 of 124
Dr.Bipasha Mridha Ghosh
NSHM Knowledge Campus Durgapur
Dr. Koyel Misra
NSHM  Knowledge  Campus  Durgapur
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Dr. Mukesh Singh
Dr. Naseer Ahmad Dar
Haldia Institute of Technology
University of Kashmir
Dr Anamica Bhattacharya
Mr. Shyam Surisetty
Mr IMRAN A SHEIKH
Dr. Evgeniya Soldatova
AIKTC  SCHOOL  OF  PHARMACY
AFFLIATED  TI  UNIVERSITY  OF
Vernadsky  Institute  of  Geochemistry
and Analytical Chemistry RAS
Mr. Shiladitya Purakayastha
Namkhana High School [H.S.]
Mrs. Suravi Ghosh
University of Burdwan
Ms. Rukhsar Parveen
THEIVANAI  AMMAL  COLLEGE
Dr. Maneesha Singh
Shri Guru Ram Rai University
Department of Microbiology
Sri dev Suman University
Institute of Engineering & Management
Durban University of Technology
Durban University of Technology
Ms. Garima Singh
University of Rajasthan
Mr. Meraj Ahmad
Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur
Dr. Suvanka Dutta
Central Pollution Control Board
Mr. Arijit Chakraborty
Athul Raj R S
Central University of Haryana
Ms. Saheli Chowdhury
Dr. Trina Dutta
JIS College of Engineering
Dr. Vishal Chauhan
Graphic Era Hill University, Dehradun
Haldia Institute Of Technology
Kashyap Kumar Dubey
Jawaharlal Nehru University New Delhi
Mallabhum Institute Of Technology
Page 119 of 124
St. John's college
Mr. Prosenjit Mondal
Mr.pabitra Kumar jana
Haldia institute of technology
Haldia institute of technology
Mr. Archisman Dutta
Geological Survey of India
Mrs. Ankita Dawn
DURGAPUR WOMEN'S COLLEGE
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Mr. Yashpal Yadav
Dr. Piyal Bhattacharya
Dr. SUBHAJIT BHAR
Visva Bharati university
Organic Orchards Pvt Ltd
University of Kalyani
Mr. Arka Mandal
Sidho Kanho Birsha University
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Singh
Mr. Hemanta Mukherjee
Aakash Mohan Rawat
Shri  Guru  Ram  Rai  University
University of Kalyani
HNB  Garhwal  University,  Srinagar
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais
Dr. Talita Silva
Mr. Chandramouli Saha
Mr. Sayantan Mitra
Dr. Gurcharan Singh Kainth
Professor ( Retired)
IIT KANPUR ( 1960 95)
Dr Isaac Dennis Amoah
Durban University of Technology
Prof. Sheena Kumari K Pillai
Durban University of Technology
Mr. Joydeep Mukherjee
Sidho Kanho Birsha University
Mr. Sushanta Sutradhar
Dr. Amandeep Kaur
St Agnes'Loreto day school
M tech student
science & technology, Shibpur
Central University of Haryana
Ms. Nabeela Siddiqui
Mr. Kush Kumar Dey.
Mohd Kamil Vakil
CHRIST  (Deemed  to  be  University),
Dr. Radharani Das
MAULANA  ABUL  KALAM  AZAD
UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY
West Bengal State University
Mr. Sunil Duhan
Mr. Dmitry Baranov
Vernadsky Institute of Geochemistry and
Analytical Chemistry of RAS, Moscow
VISVA BHARATI Central University
Dr. Nabanita Pal
Visva Bharati University
Durban University of Technology
Mr. Binoy Kumar Show
Page 120 of 124
Anirban kr Maity
Heritage institute of technology
Dr. Susmita Dhar
Sister Nivedita University
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Mr. Aniket Nag
Dr. Abhik Chatterjee
Mr. Saikat Mondal
Ms. Suvashree Mukherjee
Mr Priyanshu Sanyal
Mr. ARKA PATRA
Heritage Institute of Technology
Heritage Institute of Technology
Heritage institute of technology Kolkata
Maulana  Abul  Kalam  Azad  University
of Technology Kolkata
Heritage Institute of Technology
Dr. Chunendra K Sahu
Mr. Raj Ranjan Srivastava
Mr. Debdas Chowdhury
Mr. Ritam Das
Ms. K. Seal
Prof.  Otto  CorrÃªa  Rotunno
Dr. Jiale Li
Haldia Institute of Technology
Heritage Institute of Technology
Federal University of Rio de Janeiro
of  Water  Resource
Engineering,  East  China  University  of
East China University of Technology
Mr Sonjoy Mondal
Mr. Clyvihk Renna Camacho
Prof. Rajnarayan Saha
HOD  in  Chemistry
Ms. ISHITA SINHA
Sr. Engineer Project
Janeiro/Geological  Survey  of  Brazil-
Linde India Limited
Page 121 of 124
SOME STATISTICS ABOUT THE REGISTERED PARTICIPANTS
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 122 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 123 of 124
BRICS NUs: WRPT-21
Page 124 of 124