Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Dual degree M.Tech. (CSE) + PhD
offered by the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs
in Computer Science and Engineering
Traditionally Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) teaching were focusing on two major areas,
i.e., theories and systems (database, computer hardware, and operating systems). With the advent of
the era of Cloud Computing, Edge Computing, AI and Big Data, the discipline is being transformed
by incorporation of new emerging technologies. It is becoming an instrumental tool in solving major
problems faced by modern society such as energy, natural disasters, pollution, and water. Through
this newly revamped M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs in CSE, IIT Jodhpur is making
a conscious effort to divulge from the traditional path and planning to reposition itself to become a
leading institute in this new genre of Computer Science education.
This M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs in CSE will offer students with deep
knowledge of core and applied computer science. Through this programme, a student will learn niche
subject areas which are of paramount importance in the modern big data era, such as Computer
Systems and Security. This programme is aiming at imparting the necessary breadth and depth to the
students for pursuing careers in academics as well as in industry. This programme is aiming at
extending undergraduate computing skills with up-to-date and in-depth expertise in specialized areas
of Computer Systems and Security.
Expected Graduate Attributes:
After completing this programme, a student will be able to develop an ability to:
1.  Understand fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of emerging fields in Computer
2.  Conceive, Design and Develop state-of-the-art scalable parallel and distributed systems
3.  Solve Big data problems through the knowledge of advanced data structures, distributed
algorithmic design, analysis, and applications.
4.  Design and develop network protocols for Wireless, Sensor, Mobile, and Vehicular networks.
5.  Ideate, Implement and Integrate cryptographic, fault tolerant algorithms for large scale
6.  Understand state-of-the-art hardware platforms for running compute intensive distributed
7.  Ability to understand and apply evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and
8.  Plan and manage technical projects
1.  Understand the fundamentals of algorithmic complexity, advanced computer architecture,
advanced network, and security protocols.
2.  Apply appropriate design principles, framework and protocols to develop dependable
3.  Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of cutting edge simulation, synthesizing, programming
4.  Ability to design and develop system architecture for mobile, cloud, fog, and edge
5.  Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of virtualization, data center design and management, and
software defined networking.
6.  Skills to comprehend and communicate effectively.
7.  Apply appropriate project and business management principles and tools for real-world