Academic & Research Facilities
The  Permanent  Campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur  spreads  across
852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center
of  the  city  of  Jodhpur  on  National  Highway  62  towards
Nagaur,  N-NE  from  the  center  of  Jodhpur.  It  has  3
parcels of land. Presently constructions exist in Pockets
A and B. The First and Second phase of construction is
completed  and  the  construction  of  the  Third  phase  will
commence shortly. Buildings that are being used for its
academic, research and administrative activities are:
Main  Building,  housing  the  administrative  offices  of
The  Learning  Hub,  housing  the  Library  of  the
Lecture  Hall  Building  with  8  class  rooms  of  60
seating  capacity,  02  classroom  of  120  seating
capacity and a 325-seater and 650-seater classroom
each.  All  the  classrooms  are  air  conditioned,
equipped  with  modern  learning  facilities  like  the
Internet and audio-visual facilities;
The  Basic  Laboratories  are  established
Department  of  Computer  Science  &  Engineering
(CSE)  Building  houses  the  Departments  of  CSE,
Mathematics, and Humanities & Social Sciences.
Engineering are established in this building;
Chemistry  Building  housing  the  Department  of
Electrical  Building  housing  the  Department  of
Mechanical  Building  housing  the  Department  of
laboratories  of  Computer  Science  &
Physics  Building  housing  the  Department  of
Metallurgical  and  Materials  Building  housing
the  Department  of  Metallurgical  &  Materials
Engineering  and  Department  of  Chemical
Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  building  housing
Innovation  Centre  Building
Startup  Centre  for  nurturing  innovation  and
entrepreneurship in various domains;
Semi-Permanent  Building  for  Animal  House
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) Centre is
established  in  a  part  of  Primary  Health  Centre
Kendriya Vidyalaya runs in the First Building of
IIT Jodhpur in Pocket B.
School  of  Artificial
Workshop  Building  which  also  house  Civil  and
Infrastructure Engineering Department;
Central Instrumentation facility Building.
Berms: Eastern (23 nos.) and Western (28 nos.) -
Each berm comprises 5 bays and provides ample
Engineering,  Chemical  Engineering,  Research
Labs  on  Interdisciplinary  Research,  Gymkhana,
commercial establishments etc.
for  housing  Laboratories
Intelligence  and  Data
The following are some facilities that are available in  Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur:
ATM  &  Bank:  The  State  Bank  of  India  and  the  Canara  Bank,  IIT  Jodhpur  Branch  are  operational  in  the  campus
which provides banking solutions to the IIT fraternity. Their ATMs are housed in the Community Centre Building,
Lecture  Hall  Building  &  Main  Administration  Building,  enabling  the  entire  IIT  Jodhpur  fraternity  ease  of
Dining  Hall:  The  two  Dining  Hall  Buildings  has  a  Mess  and  a  Restaurant  in  each  that  caters  to  the  need  of  all
students  and  employees.  They  provide  hygienic  food,  fresh  juices  and  various  other  snacks.  The  mess  offers
good  quality  food,  regularly  monitored  by  the  Wardens  for  hygiene  and  nutritional  values  and  provided  at
Gymnasium: All student hostels have well-equipped gymnasium for students.
Entertainment  Room:  Every  hostel  consists  of  recreation  facilities  (like  TV  Rooms,  where  students  can  enjoy
matches and watch movies) along with indoor games (like table tennis and caroms).
Laundry Service: Students and residents are facilitated with a dedicated laundry service on campus.
Shopping  Center:  Various  shops  catering  to  the  primary  needs  of  students  and  residents,  like  grocery,  dairy
products, stationery, grooming services; All are housed in the Community Center Building and berms.
Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Permanent Campus and Jodhpur City at
regular intervals, exclusively for the students, faculty and staff of the Institute.
Medical  Services:  The  Primary  Health  Center  operated  by  M/s.  Goyal  Hospital  &  Research  Center  Pvt.  Ltd.,
Jodhpur,  on  contract,  provides  routine  health  services  to  students  and  residents  of  the  Campus.  Besides  this
fully functional, round-the- clock, Primary Health Center in the campus, IIT Jodhpur avails services from the All-
India Institute of Medical Sciences and the associated Hospitals of the S. N. Medical College and some specialized
hospitals. The Institute has agreements with a few prominent hospitals for priority treatment to its employees
and students. These include: Goyal Hospital and Research Center, MediPulse Hospital, Vasan Eye Care Hospital,
Vasundhra Hospital and other hospitals.
Post Office: To cater the requirement of Postal Services of the campus residents a post office is now functional
at the main gate of the campus.
E-Rikshaw  Service:  For  providing  commutating  services  inside  the  campus  premises  for  visitors,  E-Rikshaw
service is provided by the Institute.
Jodhpur Club: This facility is developed exclusively for the requirement of faculties and staff members
along with their family members. It houses a restaurant, Indoor Badminton Court (wooden floor), space
for  Gymnasium,  Library,  200  Seating  Capacity  multipurpose  hall  etc.  The  Euro  Kids  Preschool  and
Daycare has also started functioning in the Jodhpur Club.
GLIMPSE OF IIT JODHPUR CAMPUS
BASIC LAB BUILDING
COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING BUILDING
CIVIL & INFRASTRUCTURE BUILDING
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING BUILDING
METTALLURGICAL & MATERIALS ENGINEERING & CHEMICAL
SCHOOL OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE &
DATA SCIENCE BUILDING
BIOSCIENCE &BIOENGINEERING BUILDING
The  Learning  Hub,  i.e.,  the  library  supports  teaching  and  research  activities  of  the  Institute  by  facilitating
acquisition,  organization,  and  dissemination  of  knowledge  resources,  and  also  by  providing  library  &
information  services  to  IIT  Jodhpur  community.  The  library  has  a  rich  and  growing  collection  of
approximately  15,600  volumes  of  books  and  e-books,  which  include  textbooks,  and  books  of  general  and
reference  nature.  A  wide  range  of  scholarly  journals,  databases  and  research  support  tools  are  also
subscribed from various sources for the academic and research purposes of the Institute.
STACKS & GENERAL SECTION
RFID GATE & DROP - BOX
A separate sports zone is developed to provide excellent Indoor ad Outdoor Sports Facilities to the students,
Faculty and Staff members. The playing facilities presently developed outdoor are:
a) Cricket Ground with separate practice pitches
b) Football Ground;
c) Hockey Ground;
d) Synthetic Basket Ball Courts;
e) Synthetic Lawn Tennis Courts;
f) Volleyball Courts ; and
g) Kabaddi Courts.
The Indoor Stadium (Aakash Complex) houses the
a) Badminton Courts;
b) Table Tennis Courts;
c) Squash Courts (Single & Double); and
CRICKET GROUND PRACTICE PITCHES
SPORTS FACILITY- INDOOR (AKASH COMPLEX)
OBC, PwD, Minority Cell
An  OBC,  PwD  and  Minority  Cell  for  ensuring  the  proper  utilization  and  adoption  of  reservation  policies  and
guidelines issued by the Government of India, is functional at IIT Jodhpur. The Cell deals with matters related to
grievances  received  from  OBC,  PwD,  and  Minority  employees,  and  students,  in  the  Institute.  The  Cell  acts  as  a
communicator  between  the  Institute  and  the  Ministry  of  Education  in  matters  related  to  the  OBC,  PwD,  Minority
students and employees in the Institute.
The  Institute  is  sensitive  about  any  kind  of  discrimination  against  Students  and  Employees  of  SC  and  ST
Categories.  Therefore,  an  SC  and  ST  Helpdesk  for  ensuring  the  proper  utilization  and  adaptation  of  reservation
policies and guidelines issued by the Government of India is functional at IIT Jodhpur. The Institute ensures that
Faculty Members, Staff Members, and Students desist from any act of discrimination of any kind against Students
and employees belonging to these categories.
The  Helpdesk  deals  with  matters  related  to  grievances  received  from  SC  and  ST  employees  and  students  in  the
Institute.  The  Helpdesk  acts  as  a  communicator  between  the  Institute  and  the  Ministry  of  Education  in  matters
related to SC and ST students and employees in the Institute.
Internal Complaints Committee
The  Internal  Complaints  Committee  has  been  constituted  as  per  the  requirement  of  the  act.  The  committee
decided to place posters pertaining to awareness on the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention,
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH Act). The posters were put up at Hostels, Students Mess, departments
and other buildings of the institute. There was 1 recorded case which was resolved by conciliation.
As per the guidelines received from CVC and Ministry of Education, the Vigilance Awareness Week was observed
from 26th October to 1st November 2021. During this week, Extempore Speech Competition (Hindi or English) and
Essay Writing Competition (Hindi or English) were organized for the students and employees of the Institute.