Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of JUNIOR ENGINEER (Civil)
(A) WRITTEN TEST
Force  (resolution  of  force,  moment  of  force,  force  system  composition  of
forces),  Equilibrium,  Friction,  Centroid  and  Center  of  gravity,  Simple
Building components (substructure, superstructure) type of structure (load
bearing, framed and composite structures).
Masonry materials (stones, bricks and mortars), Timber and miscellaneous
materials  (glass,  plastic,  fibre,  aluminium  steel,  galvanized  iron,  bitumen,
PVC, CPVC and PPF).
Job layout, earthwork, foundation (types, dewatering coffer dams, bearing
Stone  masonry  brick  masonry,  Hollow  concrete block  masonry,  composite
masonry,  cavity  wall,  doors  and  windows,  vertical  communication  (stairs,
lifts escalators), scaffolding and shoring.
Floors (finishes, process of laying), walls (plastering, pointing, painting) and
roofing materials including RCC).
Cracks  (causes,  type,  repairs-  grouting,  epoxy  etc.),  settlement  (causes  and
remedial measures), and re-baring techniques.
Conventions  (type  of  lines,  symbols),  planning  of  building  (principles  of
planning for residential and public buildings, rules and byelaws), drawing
(plan, elevation, section, site plan, location plan, foundation plan, working
drawing) perspective drawing.
Properties of various types/ grades of cement, properties of coarse and fine
aggregates, properties of concrete (water cement ratio properties of fresh and
hardened  concrete),  Concrete,  quality  control  of  concrete  (batching,
formwork,  transportation,  placing,  compaction,  curing  waterproofing),
extreme weather concreting and chemical admixtures, properties of special
concrete  (ready  mix,  RCC,  pre-stressed,  fibre  reinforced  precast  high
Types  of  survey,  chain  and  cross  staff  survey  (principle,  ranging
triangulation,  chaining,  errors,  finding  area),  compass  survey  (principle,
bearing of line, prismatic compass, traversing, local attraction, calculation of
bearings,  angles  and  local  attraction)  levelling  (dumpy  level,  recording  in
level  book.  Temporary  adjustment,  methods  of  reduction  of  levels,
classification  of  levelling,  tilting  level,  auto  level,  sources  of  errors,
precautions  and  difficulties  in  levelling),  contouring  (contour  interval,
characteristics,  methods  of  locating,  interpolation,  establishing  grade
contours, uses of contour maps), area and volume measurements, [lane table
survey  (principles,  setting,  method)  theodolite  survey  (components,
adjustments, measurements, traversing), Tachometric survey curves (types,
setting out), advanced survey equipment, aerial survey and remote sensing.
Computer Aided Design   CAD  Software    (AutoCAD,  Auto  Civil,  3D  Max  etc.),  CAD  commands,
generation of plan, elevation, section, site plan, area statement, 3D view.
Mechanics of Structure
Theory of structure
Application  of  Geo  Technical  Engineering  in  design  of  foundation,
pavement, earth retaining structures, earthen dams etc., physical properties
of  soil,  permeability  of  soil  and  seepage  analysis,  shear  strength  of  soil,
bearing  capacity  of  soil,  compaction  and  stabilization  of  soil,  site
investigation and sub soil exploration.
Properties of fluid, hydrostatic pressure, measurements of liquid pressure in
pipes, fundamentals of fluid flow, flow of liquid through pipes, flow through
open channel, flow measuring devices, hydraulic machines.
Hydrology,  investigation  and  reservoir  planning,  percolation  tanks,  diver
Stress  and  strain,  shear  force  and  bending  moment,  moment  of  intertia
stresses in beams analysis of trusses, strain energy.
Direct  and  bending  stresses,  slope  and  deflection,  fixed  beam,  continuous
beam, moment distribution method, columns.
Working Stress method, Limit State method, analysis and design of singly
reinforced  and  doubly  reinforced  sections  shear,  bond  and  development
length,  analysis  and  design  of  T  Beam,  slab  axially  laded  column  and
Design of Steel Structure   Types  of  sections,  grades  of  steel,  strength  characteristics,  IS  Code,
Connections, Design of tension and compression members, steel roof truss,
beams, column bases.
Railway Engineering (alignment and gauges, permanent way, railway track
geometrics,  branching  of  tracks,  stations  and  yards,  track  maintenance),
Bridge engineering (site selection, investigation, component parts of bridge,
permanent  and  temporary  bridges,  inspection  and  maintenance),  Tunnel
engineering  (classification,  shape  and  sizes,  tunnel  investigation  and
surveying, method of tunnelling in various strata, precautions, equipment,
explosives lining and ventilation).
Road  Engineering,  investigation  for  road  project  geometric  design  of
highways, construction of road pavements and materials traffic engineering,
hill roads drainage of roads, maintenance and repair of roads.
Environmental pollution and control, public water supply, domestic sewage,
solid waste management, environmental sanitation and plumbing.
Fibers  and  plastics,  artificial  timber,  advanced  concreting  methods  (under
water concreting, ready mix concrete, tremix concreting, special concretes),
formwork,  pre-fabricated  construction,  soil  reinforcing  techniques,  hosting
and  conveying  equipment,  earth  moving  machinery  (exaction  and
compaction  equipment),  concrete  mixers,  stone  crushers,  pile  driving
equipment, working of hot mix bitumen plant bitumen paver, floor polishing
Types of estimates (approximate, detailed), mode of measurements and rate
Types  of  Engineering  Contracts  Tender  and  tender  documents,  payment,
Contracts and Accounts
Estimating and Costing
(B) SKILL TEST
1.  Work procedure as per CPWD guidelines.
2.  Knowledge of computer applications (like MS-Word, Excel, Power Point and E-Mail, etc.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of JUNIOR ENGINEER (Electrical)
(A) WRITTEN TEST
Concepts  of  resistance,  inductance,  capacitance,  and  various  factors
affecting  them.  Concepts  of  current,  voltage,  power,  energy  and  their
Kirchhoff’s law, Simple Circuit solution using network theorems.
Measurement and measuring
concepts of flux, mmf, reluctance, Different kinds of magnetics materials
Magnetic  calculations  for  conductors  of  different  configuration  e.g.
straight,  circular,  solenoidal,  etc.  Electromagnetic  induction,  self  and
Instantaneous,  peak,  R.M.S.  and  average  values  of  alternating  signal,
Representation of sinusoidal wave form, simple series and parallel AC
Circuits  consisting  of  R.L.  and  C,  Resonance,  Tank  Circuit.  Poly  phase
system-star  and  delta  connection,  3  phase  power,  DC  and  sinusoidal
signal response of R-Land R-C circuit.
Measurement of power (1 phase and 3 phase, both active and re-active)
and  energy,  2  wattmeter  method  of  3  phase  power  measurement,
Measurement  of  frequency  and  phase  angle,  ammeter  and  voltmeter
(both moving oil and moving iron type), extension of range wattmeter,
Megger, Energy meter AC Bridges. Use of CRO, Signal Generator, CT, PT
and their uses. Earth Fault detection.
(a)  D.C. Machine – Construction, Basic Principles of D.C. motors and
generators, their characteristics, speed control and starting of D.C.
Motors. Method of braking, motor Losses and efficiency of D.C.
(b) 1  phase  and  3  phase  transformers-  Constructions,  Principles  of
operation,  equivalent  circuit,  voltage  regulation,  O.C.  and  S.C.
Tests, Losses and efficiency. Effect of Voltage frequency and wave
form  on  losses,  Parallel  operation  of  1  phase  Induction  Motors
Characteristics and applications.
(c)  3  Phase  induction  motors,  rotating  magnetic  field,  principle  of
operation,  equivalent  circuit,
starting and speed control of 3 phase induction motors. Methods
of  braking,  effect  of  voltage  and  frequency  variation  on  torque
speed  characteristics,  Fractional  Kilowatt  Motors  and  Single
Phase Induction Motors Characteristics and applications.
(d) Synchronous  Machines:    Generation  of  3  phase  e.m.f.  armature
reaction, voltage regulation, parallel operation of two alternators,
synchronizing, control of active and reactive power, Starting and
applications of synchronous motors.
Different types of power stations, Load factor, diversity factor, demand
factor,  cost  of  generation,  inter-connection  of  power  stations.  Power
factor improvement, various types of tariffs, types of faults, short circuit
current  for  symmetrical  faults.  Switchgears  and  Protection  Rating  of
circuit breakers Principles of arc extinction by oil and air, H.R.C Fuses,
Protection against earth leakage, over current, etc. Buchholz relay, Merz-
Price  system  of  protection  of  generators  &  transformers,  Protection  of
feeders  and  bus  bars,  Lighting  arresters,  various  transmissions  and
distributions  system,  comparison  of  conductor  materials,  efficiency  of
different system Cable-Different type of cables, cable rating and derating
Estimation and Costing
Estimation  of  lighting  scheme,  electrical  installation  of  machines  and
relevant rules, Earthling practices and IE Rules.
Illumination,  Electric  heating,  Electric  welding,  Electroplating,  Electric
drivers and motors.
(B) SKILL TEST
Working  of  various  electronic  devices  e.g.  P  N  Junction  diodes
Transistors (PNP and PNP type), BJT and JFET Simple circuits using these
General principles of Refrigeration and Air-conditioning, Terminology,
Factors affecting A.C. Load, Psychrometric chart, comfort air
conditioning, General principles of window / split air conditioners.
Design, Layout, and installation procedures for Building / Substation
earth, Lightning protection and Surge protection devices.
Preparation of estimate for electrical work, Estimation and costing of the
electrical related work, Preparation of Notice inviting tender, Notice
inviting Quotation and Market rate analysis.
1.  Work procedure as per CPWD guidelines.
2.  Knowledge of computer applications (like MS-Word, Excel, Power Point and E-Mail, etc.
3.  Knowledge of measuring instrument ( like Meggar, multimeter, watt hour meter, lux meter, db meter,
temperature and pressure gauge etc.);
4.  Switchgear and busbar system used at the 33/11 kV substation;
5.  Earthing system used at SS and Buildings;
6.  Lightning arrester used at Substation and high rise buildings;
7.  DG operation and maintenance;
8.  Overhead line of 33 kV;
9.  Underground cabling of 33/11 kV (Laying procedure of cable, testing of cable etc.)
10.  Knowledge about Transformer and sub-station yard maintenance.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Syllabus for the post of JUNIOR ENGINEER (Mechanical)
(A) WRITTEN TEST
Strength of Material
Energy  and  steam,  forms  Sources  and  Classification  of  energy,  Steam
boilers-  classification,  Classification,  Principle  of  operation  of  Impulse
and  reaction,  gas  &  water  turbine,  Classification,  I.C.  Engines  parts,
Refrigeration and Air conditioning, Lathe and Drilling Machines, Milling
and  Grinding  Machines,  Joining  Processes,  Lubrication  and  Bearings
Soldering,  Brazing  and  Welding,  Power  Transmission  Belt  Drives  &
Introduction to engineering mechanics, Composition of forces, Free body
diagram, equations of equilibrium, Conditions of static equilibrium for
different force systems, Lami’s theorem, Friction, Statically determinate
beams, Centroids and moment of inertia.
Stress  and  strain,  Shear  stress,  Bending  moment  and  Shear  force
diagrams,  Elastic  constants,  principal  stresses,  Maximum  stresses  in
beams, Deflection of beams, and Torsion of shaft
Introduction,  Drawing  Instruments  and  their  uses,  BIS  conventions,
Lettering,  Dimensioning  and  free  hand  practicing,  Orthographic
Projections,  Orthographic  Projections  of  plane  surfaces,  Projections  of
Solids, Sections and development of lateral Surfaces of Solids, Isometric
Isometric  Scale  only).  Computer  Assisted
Structure  of  crystalline  solids,  Diffusion,  Diffusion  Mechanism,  Fick’s
laws of diffusion. Gibbs phase rule, Binary phase diagrams, Iron-carbon
Diagram.  Mechanical  Properties  of  Materials,  Tension  test,  Hardness
tests  and  impact  tests,  Elastic  and  Plastic  behaviour,  yield  point
phenomenon,  True  stress-true  strain  relationships,  Types  of  fracture,
stages in cup & cone fracture, Fatigue: fatigue tests, S-N Curves.
Composite Materials: Types of composite materials. Properties of fibers
and  matrix  materials.  General  methods  of  production,  properties  and
applications of FRP,PRC, MMC and structural composites. Expressions
for density, Young’s modulus and strength of continuous fiber reinforced
composites  in  iso-  strain  and  iso  –  stress  conditions.  Applications  of
composite materials in aerospace, automobile and other fields.
Thermodynamics:  System,  Surroundings,  Boundary,  Property,  State,
Process,  Cyclic  process, Path  function,  point  function,  Zeroth  law, first
and  second  of  thermodynamics.  Carnot  Cycle,  Irreversibility  and
availability. Concept of Heat engines, efficiency of heat engine- concept
of heat pump and Refrigerator coefficient of performance.
Fluid Mechanics: Fluid-definition, concepts of continuum, shear stress as
applied  to  fluids,  fluid  properties  viscosity,  Newton’s  law,  surface
tension,  bulk  modulus,  compressibility,  vapour  pressure,  capillarity,
gauge and absolute pressures of a fluid. Principle of manometers, simple
and  differential  manometers,  Bourdon’s  pressure  gauge,  Pascal’s  law,
Heating , Air conditioning a&
Hydrostatic forces on plane and inclined surfaces. Archimedes principle,
stability  of  foliation  bodies.  Bernoulli’s  equation,  viscous  flow  of
incompressible fluids, boundary layers.
Measurements  and  measurement  systems:  Definition,  significance  of
measurement, generalized measurement system, definitions and concept
of  accuracy,  precision,  calibration,  sensitivity,  repeatability,  linearity,
standards of measurement, limits, fits, tolerance and gauging, principle
interchageability,  Indian  standards,  comparators  and  angular
measurement,  mechanical  and  optical  comparators,  LVDT,  Pneumatic
comparators;  Transducers,  primary  and  secondary
electrical,  mechanical,  electronic  transducers;  intermediate  modifying
terminating  devices:  mechanical,  cathode  ray  oscilloscope,
oscillographs,  X-Y  plotters.  Measurement  of  force,  torque,  pressure,
temperature and strain.
Air conditioning: Introduction to Air conditioning; Factors affecting Air
conditioning;  Psychometric  chart  and  its  use;  Psychometric  process-
sensible  heating  and  cooling,  Humidifying  and  dehumidifying;
Adiabatic saturation process; Equipments used in air conditioning cycle;
Air  conditioning  units  and  plants.  Refrigeration  and  Air-conditioning
tools:  Tools  used  in  refrigeration  and  Air  conditioner  installation;
Installation  procedure;  Faults  in  refrigeration  and  air  conditioning
system; Servicing procedure
Principle  of  working  and  applications,  Types  of  casings  and  impellers,
Concept of multistage, Priming and its methods, Cavitation, Manometric
head, Work done, Manometric efficiency, Overall efficiency. Numericals
on calculations of overall efficiency and power required to drive pumps.
Impulse and Reaction Turbines; Condensers: Jet & Surface Condensers,
Cooling  Towers;  Internal  Combustion  Engines  and  Refrigeration:  Otto,
Diesel and Dual cycles; P-V and T-S Diagrams; IC Engines: 2 - Stroke and
4 - Stroke I.C. Engines, S.I. and C.I. Engines.
Functions of air compressor; Uses of compressed air; Types of air
compressors; Single stage reciprocating air compressor - its construction
and working (with line diagram) using P-V diagram; Multi stage
compressors – Advantages over single stage compressors; Rotary
compressors: Centrifugal compressor, axial flow type compressor and
vane type compressors.
Preparation of budget estimate for Mechanical  work, Estimation and
costing of the electrical related work, Preparation of Notice
Inviting tender, Notice inviting Quotation and Analysis of market rates.
Having piping knowledge, leak detection and attention system.
Planning and Scheduling of work.
Root cause and failure analysis. Corrosion and inspection of piping and
(B) SKILL TEST
1.  Work procedure as per CPWD guidelines.
2.  Knowledge of computer applications (like MS-Word, Excel, Power Point and E-Mail, etc.)