Admission	to	Executive	M.Tech	in	Intelligent VLSI Systems	for
IIT  Jodhpur  invites  applications  for  admission  Part-time  M.  Tech.  (Intelligent  VLSI  Systems)
program for the Semester commencing from September 2022.  The proposed Executive M. Tech
program  for  Intelligent  VLSI  Systems  of  IIT  Jodhpur  includes  state  of  the  art  semiconductor
devices  and  modeling  techniques,  analog  and  digital  VLSI  circuits  and  systems,  mixed  signal
circuits,  testing  and  verification  algorithms,  issues  with  system  integration  for  performance
considerations,  covering  wide  aspects  of  embedded  and  computing  systems,  and  emerging
applications.  It  will  cover  a  wide  aspect  of  fundamentals,  design  skills,  hands  on  through
synchronous/asynchronous/campus-immersion mode and current trends in the industry. It will lead
the professionals to learn without a career break with classes conducted on weekends/weekdays
evening. The education delivery methodology combines classroom and experiential learning.
Eligibility Criteria and Admission Process
B.Tech./B.E. (ECE/EE/CSE/EI/MSc. Physics/MSc. Electronics or equivalent) with at least 60% marks. At
least 2 years of professional work experience with sufficient hands-on experience.
Candidates must fill an online application at https://oa.iitj.ac.in/OA_PG_ADMISSION/. Selection will be
based on written test and/or interview and/or any other criteria deemed suitable by the admission committee.
Prior research exposure and/or industry experience in areas related to VLSI will be considered a plus. The
department reserves the right to set any cut off criteria for shortlisting the candidates. Mere fulfillment of
the eligibility criteria does not guarantee that the candidate will be shortlisted, as the shortlisting criteria are
often stricter than the eligibility criteria. Shortlisting criteria is decided after receiving the applications, and
is aimed at limiting the number of candidates considered for evaluation.
Program Fee: Fee will be Rs 65,000/- per semester. The program is for min. 3-year (6 semesters)
duration. Fees once paid will not be refunded, if the candidate fails to join the program.
Fees once paid will not be refunded, if the candidate fails to join the program.
Written Test Topics: Basics of programming, basic mathematics, basics of electronics, circuit theory,
Key Features of the Program:
Classes will be conducted in the evening (e.g. from 5 PM to 7 PM IST) or on weekends at a convenient
time. There will be two to three lectures/labs every evening, each of duration 50 to 80 minutes. Typical
contact time for 1 credit: 14 lectures of 50 min each.
Lectures will be webcast online and students will attend in a synchronous audio-visual mode. Students can
raise questions during the lecture. Recorded lectures and teaching material will be made available after the
sessions.  Course management and offline discussions will be enabled via widely-used tools such as Google
classroom, Piazza and Moodle.
There will be mandatory two contact weeks in a semester. Students need to be present on campus during a
contact  week  and  attend  lectures  and  discussion  sessions  with  instructors,  and  give  a  demonstration  of
assignments.  Alternatively,  these  contact  weeks  can  be  organized  in  remote  locations,  subject  to  higher
The first contact week will align middle of the semester. The second contact week will align with the last
week  of  the  semester  (subjected  to  COVID19  pandemic  situation).  Institute  may  provide  hostel
accommodation during the contact week, subject to availability.
Grading will be based on examinations, online quizzes, theoretical assignments, etc. Institute policy will be
followed for the examination.
Students need to earn 62 credits as per the course structure in order to qualify for the degree over a minimum
Instructors comprising of IITJ faculty members and industry experts.
August 14, 2022: Last date of receiving applications
August 17, 2022: Announcing the list of shortlisted candidates
August 27, 2022: Written-test/interview
September 6, 2022: Announcement of selected candidates
September 8-11, 2022: Fee link activation
September 12-13, 2022 Registration of students
September 15, 2022 Orientation of new students
September 17, 2022 Commencement of classes
Applicants  are  requested  to  use  the  following  link  to  fill  and  submit  the  application  form  online:
Applicants are required to pay the processing fee of Rs. 500 online while submitting the application form.
The application fees is non-refundable.
Cancellation of admission
The Institute reserves the right to cancel, at any stage, the admission of a candidate admitted to a programme
and  is  later  found  that  he/she  is  not  entitled,  being  unqualified  or  ineligible  in  accordance  with  the
Regulations  in  vogue,  or  suspension/termination  of  programme.  In  case  of  cancellation/withdrawn  of
admission after registration from programme, refund of fee will not be permissible.
In case of any query with respect to the online application, candidates may contact: Office of Automation
(oa_automation@iitj.ac.in) and other general queries may be directed to the office of the Department of
Electrical  Engineering  at
following  phone  number:  0291-2801352  or  email  address: