Vigyan Jyoti at IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur is organizing Vigyan Jyoti Program during 14 May
2018 – 02 June 2018 in its permanent campus at Karwar. The program is a new initiative by
the Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India, to bring gender parity
in the field of Science & Technology (S&T) where female ratio is under-represented. Under
this program 30 girl students of class XI & XII of nearby government schools are residing in
the  hostel  of  IIT  Jodhpur  for  three  weeks. The  program  is  coordinated  by    Priyanka  Singh,
Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, who is the  Nodal Officer,
Vigyan Jyoti Program at IIT Jodhpur. The activities designed in this program will cater to five
aspects, namely Role Models, Society & Life, Health, Competence and Profession & Life.
1.  Role  Models:  Students  will  interact  with  female  faculty  members  and  students  in  the
institute  as  well  as  nearby  research/education
institutes  which  will  motivate  as  well  as  inspire
them to opt for S&T.
2.  Society  &  Life:  Students  will  be  engaged  in
like  poetry,  drama,  quizzes,  book
reading  etc.  which  will  provide  them  an  insight
into  the  mutual  relationship  between  science  &
3.  Profession & Life: Students will be spending one
day in each department of the institute. Several
lecture  sessions  and  hands-on  activities  will  be
to  encourage  as  well  as  provide
information  about  the  future  career  opportunities  in  different  fields  of  S&T.  These
activities  will  also  be  useful  in  provide  directions  to  high  school  female  students  for
preparing for S&T entrance exams.
4.  Competency:  Activities
like  “Personality  &  Soft  Skills”;  “Goal  setting  &  Time
management”  and  “Presentation  Skills”  are  introduced  in  the  program  to  help  female
students improve their overall personality and presentation skills, which will be helpful in
their life and future career.
5.  Health: Sessions  like  “Art  of  Living & Yoga”  & “Sports”  aims  to  make  them  realize  the
importance of heath in day-to-day life.