Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Dual degree M.Tech. (AI) + PhD
oﬀered by the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) is a branch of computer science that aims to create machines to act with
higher levels of intelligence and emulate the human capabilities of sense, comprehend and act. The
core problems of artiﬁcial intelligence include programming computers for certain traits such as
Knowledge, Reasoning, Problem-solving, Perception, Learning and Planning. AI technology
development and applications are evolving rapidly with major implications for economies and
societies. As the demand for such applications increases, there is also an increasing need for building
the future workforce for AI. For developing the AI ecosystem, this program will be executed in
synergy with other M.Tech programs running in IIT Jodhpur, such as Sensors & IoT, Cyber-Physical
Systems, and Advanced Manufacturing and Design.
This M.Tech in AI programme will oﬀer students with deep knowledge of both fundamental AI
technologies, as well as application-oriented AI. A student completing this program will be capable to
undertake careers in industry as well as academia. He/She will have the option to explore a variety of
domains including Manufacturing, Fintech, Healthcare, Agriculture/Food Processing, Education,
Retail/Customer Engagement, Human and Robot interaction/intelligent automation, Smart City , Aid
for Diﬀerently Abled/Accessibility Technology.
Expected Graduate Attributes:
After completing this programme, a student will be able to develop an ability to:
1. Comprehend fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of the state-of-the-art AI
2. Design and Build real-world AI systems for complex planning, decision making and learning,
solving application-speciﬁc problems, and to reason about them.
3. Conceive, Design and Develop Intelligent multi-modal multi-sensory Man-Machine interfaces.
4. Design, Develop and Deploy machine learning based applications using structured and
unstructured data (e.g., speech, text, images/videos).
5. Understand and Assess reliability, dependability and trust-worthiness of AI-based systems.
6. Design and develop AI applications for resource constrained environments.
7. Adhere to evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and territories.
8. Plan and manage technical projects.
1. Understand the fundamentals of Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Inference Engines,
Speech, Vision, Natural Language Understanding, Robotics, and Human Computer
2. Unify the knowledge of human cognition, AI, Machine Learning and data engineering for
3. Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of state-of-the-art AI tools for real-world problem-solving.
4. Ability to develop real-time and robust AI-based systems with speciﬁc software, hardware
and data requirements.
5. Build solutions to explore fully immersive computer-generated worlds (in VR), and overlay
computer graphics onto our view of our immediate environment (AR) along with smart,
6. Demonstrate advanced skills to comprehend and communicate eﬀectively.
7. Carry out projects using intelligent cognitive solutions provided by AI algorithms to get more
insights in stakeholder management, risk modeling, intelligent resource scheduling and
managing project constraints with intelligent use of data models.
Course Structure for
M.Tech. (AI) Program and Dual degree M.Tech. (AI) + PhD
* Bridge Course on DSA
C MAL7xx0 Optimization
Advanced Data Structures
CSP7xx0 Machine Learning
Program Elective 1
Technical Communication 1-0-0 1
Core Bucket: Advanced Artiﬁcial
Program Elective 2
Program Elective 3
Open Elective 1
Ethics and Professional Life
Total Credits: 15
Total Credits: 17
CSDxx0 Major Project – Part 1
Program Elective 4
Program Elective 5
Open Elective - 2
System Engineering and
CSDxx0 Major Project – Part 2
Program Elective 6
Total Credits: 15
Total Credits: 15
**List of Prescriptive Electives
Linear algebra for data science
Statistics for Data Science
*The students should have satisfactory performance in the course in order to be eligible for internships and
placements opportunities from the institute.
**Depending on the background of students, courses from the prescriptive electives can be recommended for
students by the DRC.
Program Electives for M.Tech. (AI) and
Dual Degree M.Tech. (AI) + Ph.D. Program
Courses oﬀered by Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Advanced Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Advanced Computer Graphics
Advancements in Computer Vision
Advanced Human-Machine Interaction
Algorithms for Big Data
Computational Learning Theory
Crowd-sourcing and Human Computing
Digital Image Analysis
Edge and Fog Computing
Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulation in AI
Graph Theory and Applications
Graph Theoretic Algorithms
Introduction to AR and VR
Machine Learning with Big Data
Medical Image Analysis
Natural Language Processing
Neuromorphic Computing and Design
Principles of Biological Vision
Reliability Engineering and Life Testing
Resource Constrained Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Scalable Machine Learning
Selected Topics in AI - I/II/III
Selected Topics in CS - I/II/III
Selected Topics in ML - 1/2/3
Social Network Analysis
Social Networks (700)
Software and Data Engineering
Security and its Applications
Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks
Virtualization and Cloud Computing
Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms (Fractal 3)
Courses oﬀered by Department of Electrical Engineering
Adaptive Signal Processing
Advanced Digital Signal Processing
Digital Signal Processing and Applications
Cyber Physical System Modelling and Simulation lab
Digital Video Processing
Introduction to Haptics
Introduction to Cyber-Physical Systems
Machine Learning for Communication
Introduction to Smart Grid
Speech and Audio Signal Processing
Statistical Decision Theory
Courses oﬀered by Department of Mechanical Engineering
Planning and Decision Making for Robots
Courses oﬀered by Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Courses oﬀered by Department of Mathematics
Advanced Topics in Computational PDE
AI for Finance
Computational Game Theory
Linear Algebra with Data
Courses oﬀered by Department of Physics
Linear Algebra for Data Science
Statistics for Data Science
Mathematical modeling and simulations
Quantum Information Processing
Quantum Cryptography and Coding
Courses oﬀered by IDRP Digital Humanities
Analysis of Social Media Networks
Human Factors in Interaction Design
Digital Methods and Tools
Courses oﬀered by School of AIDE
Introduction to Financial Engineering
Computational Cognition & Behavior Modelling
Fundamentals of Digital Humanities: Fractal - 2 (Data
and Knowledge representations)
Introduction to Game Theory
Machine Learning for Epidemiology
Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos
Optimization in ML
Special Topics in Data Science - 1/2/3
Courses oﬀered by School of Management and Entrepreneurship
AI for Risk Analysis
Risk Management Analytics