Ethical Policy .......................................................................................................................................................................... 1
Policies for different Castes ............................................................................................................................................. 1
Policy for the Persons with Disability (PWD) (Divyang; दिव्यांगजन) .................................................................. 2
Policy for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) ............................................................................................ 5
Policy for the LGBTQ ......................................................................................................................................................... 5
Policy for the International Community ................................................................................................................... 5
Anti-Discrimination Policy .............................................................................................................................................. 7
Anti-Harassment Policy .................................................................................................................................................... 7
Having an ethical Institutional policy that provides guidance for employees and other
internal stakeholders on ethical behaviors can reduce misbehavior in the Institute.
Additionally, a strong ethical culture can help to create a  culture of accountability, as
employees  are  more  likely  to  be  held  responsible  for  their  actions  when  ethics  is  an
integral part of the institutional culture, increased employee job satisfaction, affective
commitment, and willingness to recommend their institution to others.
Policies for different Castes
Implementation of the Government of India Reservation policies / Welfare measures
One of the main objectives of the  Inclusivity Cell is to implement the Government of
India Reservation Policies / Welfare measures for Scheduled Castes (SC) / Scheduled
Tribes  (ST)  /  Other  Backward  Class  (OBC)/  Persons  with  Disability  (PWD)  /
Economically Weaker Section (EWS) / LGBTQ & other Minority Communities about the
Admission of Students, the Recruitment of Faculty and Non-faculty positions, and other
benefits, as applicable.
Scheduled Castes (SC)
Scheduled  Castes  are  those  castes/races  in  the  country  that  are  notified  as
Scheduled Castes  as  per  provisions  contained  in  Clause  1  of  Article  341  of  the
Constitution.  More details are available on the below link:
The  Constitution  of  India  has  prescribed  protection  and  safeguards  for  the
Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs), and other weaker sections, either
specially or the way of insisting on their general rights as citizens, with the object
of  promoting  their  educational  and  economic  interests  and  removing  social
disabilities.  These  social  groups  have  also  been  provided  institutionalized
commitments through the statutory body, the National Commission of SCs. The
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment is the nodal Ministry that oversees the
interests of the Scheduled Castes.
Scheduled Tribes (ST)
The  term  'Scheduled  Tribes'  first  appeared  in  the  Constitution  of  India.  Article  366
(25) defined  scheduled  tribes  as  "such  tribes  or  tribal  communities  or  parts  of  or
groups  within such tribes or tribal communities as are deemed under Article 342 to
be  Scheduled  Tribes  for  the  purposes  of  this  constitution".  Article  342,  reproduced
below,  prescribes  the  procedures  to  be  followed  in  the  specification  of  scheduled
Other Backward Class (OBC)
The Other Backward Class (OBC) is a collective term used by the Government of
India  to  classify  educationally  or  socially  backward  castes.  It  is  one  of  several
official  classifications  of  the  population  of  India,  along  with  General  castes,
Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes (SCs and STs).
Criteria to identify the portion of the population comprising the “creamy layer” have
been recommended, including the following:
Children  of  those  with  a  family  income  above Rs.8,00,000/-  a  year  should  be
considered creamy layer and excluded from the reservation quota.
The  OBC  list  presented  by  the  National  Commission  for  Backward  Classes  is
dynamic (castes and communities can be added or removed) and is subject to change
from  time  to  time  depending  on  social,  educational,  and  economic  factors.  For
example, the OBCs are entitled to 27 % reservations in Public Sector Employment
and Higher Education. In  the Constitution, OBCs are described as ‘socially  and
educationally backward classes,’ and the government is enjoined to ensure their
social and educational development.
Policy for the Persons with Disability (PWD) (Divyang; दिव्यांगजन)
The Government of India has enacted the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act,
2016, which gives effect to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons
with  Disabilities  and  for  matters  connected  therewith  or  incidental  thereto.
WHEREAS the United Nations General Assembly adopted its Convention on the
Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  on  the  13th  day  of  December  2006.  AND
WHEREAS the aforesaid Convention lays down  the following principles for the
empowerment of persons with disabilities:
(a)  respect for inherent dignity, individual autonomy, including the freedom to
make one's own choices, and independence of persons;
(c) full and effective participation and inclusion in society;
(d)  respect  for  difference  and  acceptance  of  persons  with  disabilities  as  part
of  human diversity and humanity;
(e) equality of opportunity;
(g)  equality between men and women;
(h)  respect for the evolving capacities of children with disabilities and respect for the
right of  children with disabilities to preserve their identities.
Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (PwD)
Initiatives  are  taken  by  IIT  Jodhpur  towards  empowerment  of  Persons  with
Disabilities (PwD) to facilitate their participation in all walks of life and enjoy their
rights equally with dignity and respect:
IIT Jodhpur is following reservation guidelines for PwD candidates as per
existing Government of India norms as applicable from time to time.
An  infrastructure  support  ramp  and  a  railing  are  provided  across  the
campus. The ramps are also in the Sports Complex.
Lifts  have  been  provided  for  all  Academic  blocks,  Hostel  blocks,  and
Medical  clinic  with  well-equipped  facilities  24*7  and  night  duty
doctors/attendants.  Ambulance  service  is  also  provided  24*7  for  all
IIT  Jodhpur  is  encouraging  the  PwD  students  to  participate  actively  in
culture  and  sports  activities  and  has  initiated  coaching  camps  in  various
sports and games.
The Institute provides hostel accommodations to students with disabilities on
the ground floors for easy access to services and resources in different hostels
located  at  the IIT campus.
Ramps, lifts, and separate washrooms are available in all the buildings of
the Institute for the convenience of students with disability.
The  Student  Wellbeing  Committee  is  especially  sensitive  to  the  needs  of
students with disability and provides the required psychological support.
Providing transport facilities for differently abled students.
Scholarship for Students with Disabilities as per GOI Guidelines.
The  Institute  is  following  the  guidelines  of  the  ‘Rights  of  Persons  with
Disabilities  (RPWD)  Act,  2016,  for  the  candidates  belonging  to  the  PwD
category,  like  providing  Scribe  /compensatory  time  for  examination  and
easy access to classrooms through ramps/lifts, etc.
The  Institute  has  ramps  and  lifts  for  students  and  employees  with
disabilities  in  all  academic  buildings,  residential  buildings,  and  student
Also,  accessible  toilets  for  disabled  persons  are  available in all the hostels
and  academic  buildings.  Residential  buildings  are  constructed  based  on  the
Some photos of the facilities that are provided by IITJ to the PwD employees
Screen Reader for Visually Impaired Users
The  Screen  Reader  facility  in  the  library  of  IIT  Jodhpur  is  a  significant  step
towards ensuring equal access to information for visually impaired users. This
technology converts text on the computer screen into speech or Braille, allowing
visually  impaired  users  to  navigate  and  use  the  library's  resources  more
The introduction of screen readers not only supports visually impaired users in
their academic pursuits but also promotes their overall inclusion in the academic
community. By providing this facility, the library demonstrates its commitment
to creating an inclusive and accessible environment for all users, regardless of
their physical abilities.
This  initiative  aligns  with  the  broader  trend  of  incorporating  assistive
technologies in libraries to enhance accessibility for individuals with disabilities.
By adopting these technologies, libraries can significantly improve the learning
experience for visually impaired users and contribute to their academic success.
Policy for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS)
Persons who are not covered under the scheme of reservation for SCs, STs, and
OBCs and whose family has a gross annual income below Rs. 8 Lakh (Rupees eight
lakh only) are to be identified as EWSs for the benefit of reservation. Income shall
also include income from all sources, i.e., salary, agriculture, business, profession,
etc., for the financial year prior to the year of application.
Also,  persons  whose  family  owns  or  possesses  any  of  the  following  assets
shall  be excluded  from  being  identified  as  EWS,  irrespective  of  the  family
5 acres of agricultural land and above;
Residential area of 1000 sq. ft. and above;
Residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above in notified municipalities;
Residential plots of 200 sq. yards and above in areas other than the
The  property  held  by  a  "Family"  in  different  locations  or  different
places/cities  would  be  clubbed  while  applying  for  the  land  or  property
holding test to determine EWS status.
The term "Family" for this purpose will include the person who seeks  the
benefit  of  reservation,  his/her  parents,  and  siblings  below  the  age  of  18
years, as well as his/her spouse and children below the age of 18 years.
Policy for the LGBTQ
LGBTQ is an umbrella term used to refer to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
and queer. LGBTQ people represent a subset of individuals among the broader
category of sexually and gender-diverse individuals. Sexual orientation, gender
identity, and expression (SOGIE) is diverse and spans cultures across the world.
The Inclusivity Cell is entrusted to protect the rights of the LGBTQ community.
Policy for the International Community
The  IIT  Jodhpur  has  a  vibrant  cohort  of  International  Students.  IIT  Jodhpur
warmly  welcomes  the  international  community  from  across  the  globe.  The
existing  Office  of  International  Relations  promotes  and  assists  candidates  in
pursuing  their  dreams  through  education  in  the  Institute's  various  UG  and  PG
programs.  The  Institute  provides  opportunities  for  holistic  growth  of  the
International Community  without  any discrimination. Presently, the Institute is
admitting foreign nationals through the following schemes with opportunities for
•  Study in India (SII) Scheme
•  The Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)
Indian Council for Cultural Relations Scholarships (ICCR)
In line with the Government of India Policy, the Inclusivity Cell at IIT Jodhpur has
been  entrusted  with  the  proper  implementation  and  adoption  of  reservation
policies and guidelines issued by the Government of India from time to time. The
Cell deals with grievances  from  employees  and  students  of  SC,  ST,  OBC,  PwD,
EWS,  and  LGBTQ  Category/community  of  the  Institute.  The  Cell  is  also
responsible  for preparing/verifying the report(s) and addressing  queries raised by
the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India, related to the students and employees of the
above categories of the Institute.
The inclusivity Cell at IIT Jodhpur is committed to implementing the above-mentioned policies
of the Ministry of Education and the Govt. of India effectively to achieve comprehensive
inclusion and diversity.
IIT Jodhpur follows the reservation norms of Govt. of India for candidates under
the  SC,  ST,  OBC,  PwD,  and  EWS  categories  for  admission  in  all  UG  and  PG
programs.  The  Institute  provides
the  relaxation  in  eligibility  criteria  and
application fees to SC, ST, and PwD candidates at the time of admission. The PwD
students are exempted from paying the Tuition Fee. IIT  Jodhpur participates in
preparatory courses for one year for SC, ST, and PwD candidates who applied for
undergraduate  courses  in  IITs.  On  successful  completion  of  the  course,  the
students  are  offered  direct  admission  to  the  already  allocated  undergraduate
course the next year.
Further, to help students with academic deficiencies, especially SC, ST, and PwD
Students, the following support mechanisms are created:
•  There  is  a  provision  for  academic  probation  for  students  with  academic
deficiency.  A  student  placed  on  probation  shall  be  monitored,  including
mandatory attendance in classes, special  tutorials, and mentoring. Mentoring
would comprise structured guidance under a senior student.
•  These students can get B.Tech./B.Sc. in Engineering Science after  completing the
credit requirements as an exit degree for those with  academic  deficiency.
•  Relaxation  in  minimum  requirement  on  credits  earned  for  continuation  in  a
•  Relaxation in CGPA for branch change
•  Language support: Language is an important axis for inclusion/exclusion. The
Institute is committed to providing language training to students who need it.
For  non-Hindi  speakers  (Indian  and  foreign)  on  campus,  providing  Hindi
Fee remission is applicable for UG students as per the Ministry of Education,
Govt. of India guidelines as given below:
1.  SC, ST & PwD are eligible to get a full Tuition fee waiver.
2.   Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Students (whose family income is less than
Rs. 1 lakh per annum) are eligible for full fee remission.
3.  The other economically backward students (whose family income is between
Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakhs per annum) shall get remission of 2/3rd  of the fee.
4.  Various scholarship details are available on the below link:
•  The Institute invites applications to meet the Reservation Policy as per the
requirement  through  Special  Recruitment  Drives  for  Teaching  and  Non-
•  The  Institute  seeks  applications  from  foreign  nationals  for  positions  at
different academic grade levels as per the approved policy by the Board of
Governors, IIT Jodhpur.
The Anti-Discrimination Policy emphasizes creating a safe and inclusive workplace by
preventing  discrimination  based  on  protected  characteristics.  It  details  the  behaviors
considered  discriminatory  and  the  actions  taken  against  such  behaviors,  promotes
fairness, equality, and positive work culture, and ensures all stakeholders of the Institute
are treated with respect and dignity, regardless of their background or identity.
Employees  who  harass  their  colleagues  will  go  through  the  Institute's  disciplinary
process, and the Institute may reprimand, demote, or terminate them depending on the
severity of their offense.
The  Anti-harassment  policy  emphasizes  a  commitment  to  a  harassment-free
environment. It prohibits intimidation, humiliation, sabotage, and discrimination based
on various factors.
The  anti-harassment  policy  expresses  the  Institute’s  commitment  to  maintaining  a
workplace  that’s  free  of  harassment  so  the  employees  can  feel  safe  and  happy.  The
Institute does not tolerate anyone intimidating, humiliating, or sabotaging others in the
workplace.  The  Institute  also  prohibits  willful  discrimination  based  on  age,  sexual
orientation, ethnicity, race, religion, or disability.
This  anti-harassment  policy,  including  sexual  harassment,  applies  to  all  Institute
stakeholders.  Harassment  includes  bullying,  intimidation,  direct  insults,  malicious
gossip, and victimization.
The consequences for violating the policy can vary based on the severity and frequency
of the offense. They can range from counseling sessions to educate the offender about
their behavior, written reprimands added to their personnel file, suspensions without
pay, or even termination in severe cases.
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
The  Institute  has  formulated  IIT  Jodhpur  (Prevention,  Prohibition  and  Redressal  of
Sexual Harassment) Rules, 2023 in line with Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
(Prevention,  Prohibition  and  Redressal)  Act,  2013,  Government  of  India  to  deal  with
Sexual  Harassment.  The  mandate  of  the  Internal  Complaints  Committee  (ICC)  is  to
evolve a mechanism for the prevention and redressal of any type of Sexual harassment
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
IIT  Jodhpur  has  a  robust  Grievances  Redressal mechanism  to  address  all  types  of
grievances,  complaints,  and  malpractices,  including  those  received  from  Students,
Faculty, and other Stakeholders of the Institute.
Having  a  good  grievance  structure  in  place  has  multiple  benefits,  but  the  chief
advantage  is  that  it ensures  that  the  Institute  maintains  positive  employee  relations.
Effective  grievance  procedures  promote  consistency,  transparency,  and  fairness  in
dealing with workplace complaints.
The  Disciplinary  Committee  ensures  compliance  with  the  Code  of  Discipline  and
Conduct for students and will suggest suitable action in case of its violation. In case of
matters  concerning  the  Institute,  the  Disciplinary  Committee  is  empowered  to  make
A student shall invite disciplinary action from the Institute if he/she violates the Code
of Conduct; the actions may include reprimand, disciplinary probation, fine, debarring
from examinations, withdrawal of scholarship and/or placement services, withholding
of  grades  and/or  degrees,  cancellation  of  registration,  and  even  expulsion  from  the