Engineering disciplines have become increasingly interdisciplinary in nature and Chemical Engineering
is  not  an  exception  to  that.  The  flexibility  of  opting  for  different  specialization  is  ingrained  in
formulating  the  structure  and  curriculum  of  the  Chemical  Engineering  programme.  Traditionally,
Chemical  Engineering  teaching  is  focused  on  transport  phenomena,  chemical  engineering
thermodynamics,  mass  transfer,  fluid  mechanics,  heat  transfer,  chemical  kinetics,  computational
systems and process control. With the advent of the era of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning
(ML), Molecular Engineering, Industry 4.0 in Chemical Plants; the discipline is being transformed by
incorporation  of  new  emerging  technologies.  Through  this  Under-Graduate  (UG)  programme  in
Chemical  Engineering,  IIT  Jodhpur  is  making  conscious  effort  to  divulge  from  traditional  path  and
planning to establish itself to become a leading institute in this new genre of Chemical Engineering
education,  which  includes  foundational  courses,  fundamental  courses  in  chemical  engineering,
emerging areas in chemical engineering, and sustainability aspects for chemical engineers.
The program begins with students pursuing a common foundation in mathematics, physics, chemistry,
engineering sciences, engineering design and programming. Students are expected to build on this
foundation with the concentration on core chemical engineering subjects ranging from material and
energy  balance,  process  control,  chemical  engineering  thermodynamics  to  chemical  reaction
engineering.  Core  courses  are  followed  by  a  set  of  departmental  electives  that  enable  students  to
target their degree program towards in-depth knowledge of areas matching their specific interests.
The  program  ensures  that  the  design  experience,  which  includes  both  analytical  studies  and
experiments,  is  integrated  throughout  the  curriculum  in  a  structured  manner  leading  to  advanced
work. Students can tailor their focus areas in consultation with a faculty advisor. Students can choose
their departmental electives (streams) from the following areas:
Chemical Engineering Design;
Process Engineering Intelligence
Complex Fluids & Interfacial Engineering;
v.  Molecular Engineering and,
Comprehensive  understanding  of  these  areas  will  provide  graduates  with  the  ability  to  adapt  and
maintain leadership roles through the application of fundamental principles to a rapidly changing and
growing discipline. The curriculum also offers numerous options that enable students to gain practical
experience, ranging from collaborative projects in industries to entrepreneurship opportunities at the
institute's incubation centre.
2. Objective of the program
The key objectives of this program are to:
Enable  students  to  have  fundamental  understanding  of  the  core  concepts  of  Chemical
ii.  Offer  opportunities  for  specialization  in  emerging  and  multidisciplinary  areas  including
Molecular Engineering, Data Science and AI applications, Polymer Engineering, Sustainability,
Biochemical Engineering and Complex Fluids & Interfacial Engineering.
Empower students with emerging concepts for plant design in context of chemical engineering
via courses designed with AI, ML, and Industry 4.0 applications.
Integrate  analytical  and  computational  ability  with  experimental  skills  to  create  individuals
competent in professional engineering practices in the domain of Chemical Engineering.
Inculcate  an  attitude  towards  commitment  to  engineering  ethics,  leadership  qualities,
entrepreneurship and professional development.
3. Expected Graduate Attribute
Graduates of B.Tech. program in Chemical Engineering will have:
Strong understanding of mathematics, science and engineering fundamentals of Chemical
Aptitude to implement AI, ML, Molecular Engineering and Industry 4.0 relevant technologies
in chemical companies.
Ability to use simulation and computational tools for a better understanding and designing of
Technical competency for addressing sustainability issues and ability to provide technological
solutions of sustainable nature.
Entrepreneurial spirit to undertake disruptive innovations.
Skills to communicate engineering concepts and ideas to peers in written or oral forms.
Commitment towards professional ethics and have humanitarian engineering skills.
4. Learning Outcome
Graduates of the B.Tech. program in Chemical Engineering will:
i.  Gain  a  strong  understanding  of  mathematics,  science  and  engineering  fundamentals  of
Chemical engineering including the concepts of  material and  energy  balance;  computational
methods; transport phenomena; reaction engineering; mass transfer; thermodynamics; heat
transfer; fluid mechanics and process control.
Have the ability to design a process equipment or plant to meet desired requirements under
socio-economic and environmental constraints.
Be  equipped  with  knowledge  of  emerging  domains:  (i)  Data  Science  &  AI  applications;  (ii)
Have  technical  capability  for  addressing  sustainability  issues  related  to  water,  energy  and
Receive effective hands-on laboratory training as a part of laboratory courses and short-term
research projects, and be able to design and conduct experiments as well as to analyse and
Develop their communication skills by participating in classroom presentations, entrepreneurial
events, seminars and workshops.
5. New skillsets targeted
Graduates of UG programme in Chemical Engineering at IIT Jodhpur will have,
Capability to design and develop process equipment and plants using computer-aided design
and modelling software.
Advanced technical capability to work with AI/ ML and Industry 4.0 aspects in chemical plants.
Latest  industrial  aptitude  in  the  areas  of  Recycle  and  Reuse,  Zero  Liquid  Discharge  (ZLD),
Wealth  from  Waste,  AI  in  Process  Engineering,  Molecular  Engineering,  Complex  fluids  and
Interfacial  Engineering,  3D  Printing  Materials  and  Processes,  and  Packaging  of  Electronic
Fluency with scientific computing techniques via courses including Material and Energy Balance,
Scientific Computations and Data Analytics in Process Modelling and Simulation.
6. Topic clouds and Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed course
Table 1: Topics, and Mapping of Topics with Courses
Fluid Statics, Dynamics, Viscous
Flow, Turbulence and
Compressible Flow Fundamentals,
Material Balance, Energy Balance,
Simultaneous Material & Energy
Liquid-Liquid Mass Transfer, Gas-
Liquid Mass Transfer, Solvent
Fluid Mechanics (PC)
Material and Energy
Mass Transfer (PC)
Conduction, Convection, Radiation,
Boiling, Condensation, Heat
Heat Transfer (PC)
Kinetics of Homogeneous
Reactions, Batch Reactor, CSTR,
Errors in computation, Linear
systems of equations, ODE, PDE
Thermodynamics of Chemical
Thermodynamic analysis of
Process Plant Design, Equipment
Design, Cost Economics
Transport Properties, Continuity
Equation, Momentum, energy and
Different forms of Corrosion and
Industrial Management, Hazards &
Process Plant Design &
Product Design, Common
Methodologies and Strategies
and Safety for Chemical
Product Design in
Conventional Unit Operations in
Process Industries, Filtration and
Membrane Separation, floatation,
Fundamentals of Conventional
Conventional Process Control, AI in
Introduction of Machine Learning,
Neural Networks, Statistical
Unit Operations (PE)
Process Control and AI
Machine Learning (IE)
Neural network era, deep learning
and data science era, AI based
Applications of Artificial
Intelligence in Chemical
Introductory Aspects of
Data driven modeling of distillation
units, FCC, catalyst regeneration
Reliability and Maintainability
Engineering, failure detection
models, reliability models,
Calibration methods, signals and
process analysis in chemical
plants, Spectroscopic data analysis
Reactor models, Bayesian
estimators, observers, filters,
Introduction to AI, predicate logic,
Basics of ML, decision trees, neural
networks, foundation of deep
Introduction to IoT architecture,
sensing, actuation, cloud, edge
and fog computing
Sensor types, nanoparticles as
Introduction to mathematical
modelling, Equation solving
approaches, Decomposition of
networks, Convergence Promotion
Introduction to manufacturing
systems, cellular manufacturing,
flexible, lean and agile systems,
cloud based manufacturing
Fundamentals and Introductory
Aspects of Colloids and
Introduction to Polymer
Process Modelling (PE)
Basics of Reliability and
Engineering for System
Artificial Intelligence in
Machine learning-1 (PE)
Introduction to Internet
of Things (IoT) (PE),
Sensors and IoT lab (PE)
Data Analytics in Process
Modelling and Simulation
Industry 4.0 Applications
Colloids and Suspensions
Fundamentals of Complex Liquids
Introductory aspects of Complex
Fundamentals of Interfacial
Engineering in Soft Matter
Introduction, processes and
applications of bioprinting
Various materials in 3-D printing
and their processing, Post-
processing and Inspection
Polymer Engineering and Principles  Fundamentals
Physics of Complex fluids
Introduction to Complex
Interfacial Engineering in
Soft Matter (PE)
3-D Printing: Material
Introductory Principles in
Concepts of Conventional and
Emerging Waste Management
Process related Air Pollution
Air Pollution Control
Introduction of Rare-earth
Materials and Radioactive
Materials, Their Processing, Unit
Different kinds of Energy
Resources and their Utilization
Waste Water Characteristics,
changes, EIA monitoring and
methodologies, Recycle and Reuse,
Introduction, design and
Fundamentals of Catalytic
reactions and its application for
Hydrogen and methanol as fuel
Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion
(OTEC) cycles, hybrid OTEC
systems and technological
Introduction, approached and
applications in molecular
Transport at molecular level,
Boltzmann equation, transport
theory and properties of dilute
gases, correlation function
Thermodynamic Principles of Self-
Assembly, Interaction Between
Lipid Bilayer and Biological
Electronic and optoelectronic
polymers, small molecules and
complexes for electronic
Processing of Rare-earth
Energy Resources (PE)
Waste Water Treatment
Assessment (EIA) (PE)
Advanced Waste Water
Microfluidic Fuel Cell
Catalysis for Energy (PE)
Hydrogen & Methanol
Ocean Thermal Energy
Fluid-Like Structures and
Complexes and Polymers
for Electronics and
Microstates of a system, statistical
Food engineering, preservation,
composition, quality control
Food Engineering (PE)
Properties of water molecule,
supercritical water, confined and
interfacial water, purification, fuel
cells, health and medicine
Molecular Engineering of
Intermolecular and Molecule-
Structure-property of electronic
and optoelectronic polymers,
piezoelectricity, applications, PCBs
Molecular dynamics, basics of
Monte Carlo method
Basics of Biology, Immobilized
enzyme, metabolic pathways,
Industrial importance of
industrial production of alcohol,
citric acid, vinegar etc
Momentum, heat and mass
transfer in bio-systems and
their analogous behavior
Separation processes in
Modelling of Atoms,
Molecules and Surfaces
Polymers for Electronics
and Optoelectronics I
biochemical industry, design
variables and parameters,
processes and methods
Bioprocess overview, membrane
configuration, kinetics, basics
7.  Course Categories, credit distribution and Credit Structure of B.Tech.
Table 2: Proposed Course Categories and credit distribution in the proposed B.Tech.
S.N.  Course Type
Regular B.Tech.  Double B.Tech.
B.Tech. Project (PP)
Open Electives (OE)
Total Graded + Non-Graded
8. Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 3. Credit Structure for B.Tech. Programmes
Distribution of contact and beyond
1 hour of Lecture
1-0-0  1 hr
0-1-0  1 hr
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Lab/Project  0-0-1  1 hr
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc.
List of Program Compulsory (PC) Courses
Data Structure and Algorithm-CS
Material and Energy Balance
Mass Transfer I
Chemical Reaction Engineering
Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics
Mass transfer II
Process Plant Design & Economics
Process Control and AI Applications
Stream-wise Program Elective (PE) Courses
Industrial Management and Safety for
Applications of Artificial  Intelligence
in Chemical Engineering
Petroleum Refinery Process Modelling  1-0-2
Basics of Reliability and Maintainability
Engineering for System Safety
Introduction to Complex Fluids
Interfacial Engineering in Soft Matter
3-D Printing: Material Processing and
Solid Waste Management
Air Pollution Control technology
Waste Water Treatment
Molecular Transport Phenomena
Organic Molecules, Complexes and
Biochemical Separation Processes
Program elective component for 8th semester
Design/Practical Experience (ND)
Options: Three Summer Design Projects (0-0-4) for 2 Credits each or in regular semesters.
9.  Specializations to be offered by the department:
Table 6: Specialization and courses
S.No.  Name of
Specialization Core (8 credits)  Specialization Elective (12
4XX0  Basics of Reliability
4XX0  Artificial Intelligence  3-0-2
in Chemical Reactor
Data Analytics in
Internet of Things
Sensors and IoT Lab  0-0-2
focused Mini Project
focused Design &
S.No.  Name of
Specialization Core (8 credits)
Specialization Elective (12
Sustainability  Solid Waste
4XX0  Air Pollution Control
4XX0  Energy Resources
7XX0  Catalysis for Energy
Processing of Rare-
focused Mini Project
focused Design &
S.No.  Name of
Specialization Core (8 credits)  Specialization Elective (12
4XX0  Organic Molecules,
Principles in Polymer
Modelling of Atoms,
focused Mini Project
focused Design &
10. Curriculum of B.Tech. Chemical Engineering (Regular)
Table 7. Curriculum of B.Tech. in Chemical Engineering
CH  NC  GC  Cat  Course
IS  Mathematics II
NH  Social Connect
NH  Performing Arts
CH  NC  GC  Cat  Course
PC  Mass Transfer
PC  Material and
PC  Mass transfer II
PC  Heat Transfer
OE  Open Elective-1
LTP  CH  NC  GC
OE  Open Elective-2
OE  Open Elective-3
Total of Non-graded and Graded Credit respectively
Non-Graded Design Credits
11.  Curriculum of Double B.Tech. : B.Tech. Chemical Engineering and
Table 8. Programme structure of Double B.Tech.
CH  NC  GC  Cat  Course
CH  NC  GC
Arts I /Sports
CH  NC  GC  Cat  Course
CH  NC  GC
15-3-4  22  1
CH  NC  GC
PC  Heat Transfer
PC  Heat Transfer Lab  0-0-2  2
IH  Humanities II
Mass transfer II
LTP  CH  NC  GC
Total  17-3-8  28
CH  NC  GC
LTP  CH  NC  GC
Total of Non-Graded and Graded Credits respectively
Non-Graded Design Credits
Grand Total  15
12. Detailed Course Content of Programme Compulsory Courses
Department  Mechanical Engineering/ Chemical
B.Tech (ME, CH)
The instructor will
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  To inculcate the fundamental laws governing fluid flow
2.  Help the students to understand the importance and application of fluid mechanics.
3.  To exemplify concepts of similarity and model testing
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply fundamental knowledge in modelling and analysis of fluid flow problems in engineering
2.  Interpret data from experiments of fluid flows and solve using differential equations and charts
Introduction [2 Lecture]: Definition and properties, continuum approach, types of fluids, basics of vector
calculus and index notations.
Fluid statics [4 Lectures]: Basic equations, Manometry, hydrostatic force on submerged bodies, rigid
Integral analysis of fluid flow [4 Lectures]: Reynolds transport theorem, conservation equations.
Differential  analysis  [5  Lectures]:  Kinematics  of  fluids  -  Deformations  in  fluid  particle,  strain  rate,
vorticity, stream function, potential function, streamlines, pathlines, streaklines, derivation of Navier-
Incompressible  Inviscid  flow  [6  Lectures]:  Euler’s  equation,  Bernoulli’s  equation,  elementary  potential
flows, superposition of elementary flows. Vorticity and vortex flows
Internal Incompressible Viscous flow [4 Lectures]: Hagen-Poiseuille and Couette flows, skin friction and
loss coefficients, venturimeter, orifice meter and Pitot tube.
External Incompressible Viscous flow [5 Lecture]: Boundary layer over flat plate, boundary layer thickness,
Prandtl-boundary  layer  equations,  momentum  integral  equation,  adverse  pressure  gradient  &
separation, drag coefficients.
Dimensional analysis and similarity [2 Lectures]: Buckingham Pi theorem and examples.
Introduction to Turbulent flows [3  Lectures]: Decomposition of instantaneous velocities, time-averaged
continuity and Navier-Stokes equations, Reynolds stresses, turbulent viscosity.
Basics of Compressible flow [3 Lectures]: Acoustic waves, isentropic equations, concept of shock waves
Few Industrial Applications [4 Lectures]: Pipe networks, Flow past immersed objects, Agitation and
1.  Fox, R. W., Pitchard, P. J and McDonald, A. T., (2010), Introduction to Fluid Mechanics,
7thEdition, John Wiley & Sons Inc.
2.  Munson, B. R., Rothmayer, A. P., Okiishi, T’H., and Huebsch, W. W. Fundamentals of Fluid
Mechanics, 7th Edition, John Wiley and Sons
3.  Kundu, P. K, Cohen, I. M and Dowling, D. R, Fluid Mechanics, 6th Edn., Associated Press.
4.  McCabe, W.L., Smith, J.C., Harriott, P., (2005), Unit Operations of Chemical Engineering, 7th
edition, McGraw-Hill International edition.
1.  White, F. M.,(2003), Fluid Mechanics, 5thEdition, McGraw-Hil
2.  Cimbala, J.M. and Cengel, Y.A., (2010), Fluid Mechanics: Fundamentals and Applications,
3.  Bird. R. B., Stewart, W. E. and Lightfoot, E. N., 2006, Transport Phenomena, 2nd edition, John
Wiley & Sons.
4.  Panton, Ronald L - Incompressible flow, John Wiley & Sons, 2006. Third edition is available from
Wiley Student Edition
1.  S. Chakrabarty, Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, NPTEL Course Material, Mechanical Engineering,
IIT Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112/105/112105269/
2.  V.Shankar, Fluid Mechanics, NPTEL Course Material, Chemical Engineering, IIT Kanpur,
Course Title  Data Structures and Algorithms
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  B.Tech of all branches
Prerequisite  Introduction to Computer Programming
1.  To introduce and practice the implementation of various data structures used for indexing,
searching, and sorting operations.
2.  To introduce basic mathematical techniques for algorithm analysis and design.
1.  Ability to design and implement appropriate data structures for indexing, searching, and sorting
operations for real-world problems.
2.  Designing of new algorithms using standard data structures.
3.  Analyzing the time and space complexities of standard data structures and basic algorithms.
Algorithm analysis and complexity: Big/little -Oh, Omega, Theta notation, Recurrence equations [2
Abstract data types: Linear data structures, Tree, Binary trees, Tree traversal, Applications [7 Lectures]
Search trees: Binary search trees, Balanced search trees, AVL trees, B-Trees [5 Lectures]
Heaps: Binary Heap, Heap order property and min/max heaps [3 Lectures]
Sets: Disjoint set ADT, Basic operations on Sets, Union/Find Algorithm [2 Lectures]
Sorting algorithms: Bubble sort, Selection sort, Bucket sort, Insertion sort, Overview of Divide-and-
conquer, Quick sort, Merge sort [6 Lectures]
Hashing: Hash tables and operations, Hash function, Open and closed hashing, External and internal
hashing, Collision resolving methods, Rehashing [5 Lectures)]
Graph algorithms: Definitions, Branch and bound, Backtracking, Representation, Traversal, Shortest-path
algorithms, Minimum Spanning Tree algorithm, Topological sorting [8 Lectures]
Greedy techniques and Dynamic programming [4 Lectures]
Implementation of data structures using C programming language.
2.  Practically verifying and comparing run-time performance and asymptotic behavior of various data
structures and related algorithms.
3.  Applications of data structures from real-life scenarios.
1. M. A. WEISS (2002), Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C, Addison-Wesley, 2nd Edition.
1.  T. H. CORMEN, C. E. LEISERSON, R.L. RIVEST, C. STEIN (2009), Introduction to Algorithms, MIT
Press, 3rd Edition.
Department  Department of Chemical Engineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background about the basic concepts of molecular engineering, biomolecules and their
structure,  sensors  that  are  used  for  the  detection  and  principles  of  recognition  along  with
overview of relevant manufacturing processes and applications.
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain an overview of overall molecular engineering starting from biomolecules to manufacturing
processes and applications.
2.  This course will enable and motivate scholars to pursue higher-level courses in focused areas.
Introduction  to  Molecular  Engineering:  [10  lectures]  Scope  of  molecular  engineering  (1lecture),
building blocks of molecular engineering (Monosaccharides, amino acids, nucleic acids, synthetic
monomer,  macrocyclic  molecules,  metal  chelates  and  cluster)  (5  lectures),  Redox  unit  and
reactive functional groups, chromophore and fluorophore (4 lectures),
Approaches in Molecular Engineering: [16 lectures] Chemical conjugation, Chemical polymerization
(4  lectures),  enzymatic  modification,  molecular  self-assembly  (4  lectures),  methods  of
recognition for chemical and biomolecules (4 lectures), Nanomaterials and Polymers in Chemical
Sensors (4 lectures)
Molecular  Engineering  Applications  for  Chemical  Engineering:  [16]  Chemical  sensor  technology,
Definition  of  chemical  sensors,  application  of  chemical  sensors  (5  lectures),  hydrogels,
encapsulation, polymer membranes (4 lectures), micro fabrication methods, existing molecular
diagnostic  devices,  wearable  sensors,  Catalysis  (5  lectures),  downstream  processing  (affinity
purification, product modification, membrane technology)(2 lectures)
1. Banica F.G,(2012) Chemical Sensors and Biosensors: Fundamentals and applications, 1st ed.,
1.  Nielsen M .B., (2014), Organic Synthesis and Molecular Engineering, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
2.  Malhotra B.D., Pandey C.M., (2017), Biosensors: Fundamentals and applications, Smithers,
Online Course Material
1.  Pandya H.J., Fabrication Techniques for MEMs-based sensors: Clinical perspective, NPTEL Course
Material,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Science  Bangalore,
Material and Energy Balance
Department  Chemical Engineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide the basics of material and energy balances for Chemical Engineers.
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain basic understanding of material and energy balances.
2.  Gain knowledge of applying the material and energy balances to Chemical Engineering Systems.
Introduction:  Units  and  dimensions  in  chemical  engineering  (1  lecture),  stoichiometric  and  composition
relations (1.5 lectures), concept of degrees of freedom and linear dependence of a set of equations (1.5
lectures). [4 lectures]
Material Balance: Selection of a basis, conservation of mass/atom material balance for systems with and
without chemical reactions, material balance involving gases (5 lectures), vapors, liquids and solids and
uses  of  real  gas  relationships,  vapor-liquid  equilibrium  and  concept  of  humidity  and  saturation  (5
lectures);  Analysis  of  systems  with  bypass,  recycle  and  purge;  Analysis  of  processes  involving
condensation, crystallization and vaporization (4 lectures). [14 lectures]
Energy  Balance  :  Conservation  of  energy  with  reference  to  general  energy  balance  with  and  without
chemical  reactions,  chemical  engineering  problems  involving  reversible  processes  and  mechanical
energy balance (5 lectures), calculations of heat of change of phase (solid – liquid and liquid –  vapor),
heat  of  reaction,  heat  of  combustion,  heat  of  solutions  and  mixing  (5  lectures),  determination  of
temperatures  for  adiabatic  and  non-adiabatic  reactions,  use  of  psychrometric  and  enthalpy
concentration diagrams(4 lectures). [14 lectures]
Simultaneous Material and Energy Balances: Degrees of freedom analysis for multicomponent systems (3
lectures), combined steady state material and energy balances for units with multiple sub-systems (3
lectures). [6 lectures]
Unsteady State Material and Energy Balances: Transient material and energy balances with and without
chemical reactions. [4 lectures]
1.  Himmelblau D.M., Riggs, J.B. (2015), Basic Principles and Calculations in Chemical Engineering, 8th
Ed., Prentice India Education Services.
2.  Bhat, B.I., Vora, S.M., (2004), Stoichiometry, 4th Ed., Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Ltd.
1.  Narayanan K.V. and Lakshmikutty B., (2006), Stoichiometry and Process Calculations, Prentice Hall of
2.  Felder R.M. and Rousseau R.W., (2005), Elementary Principles of Chemical Processes, 3rd Ed., John
Wiley & Sons.
3.  O.A. Hougen, K.M. Watson and R.A. Ragatz, 2004, Chemical Process Principles Part 1, 2nd Edition,
CBS Publishers and Distributors.
Online Course Material
Majumdar  S.K.,  Basic  Principles  and  Calculations  in  Chemical  Engineering,  SWAYAM  Course  Material,
Mass Transfer I
Department  Chemical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-3 [4.5]
The Instructor will:
Share basic concepts of mass transfer operation, definitions and overview of equipment.
The students are expected to:
Gain basic understanding of the mass transfer operations and its industrial applications.
Introduction to Mass Transfer: [8  lecture] Overview with  examples and  definitions,  Fick’s Law (1st
law), steady state molecular diffusion for fluids in laminar flow, diffusivity of gases and liquids (5
lectures),  applications  of  molecular  diffusion,  method  of  separation,  penetration  and  surface
renewal theories (3 lectures)
Direct Contact Mass Transfer Operations for Immiscible Phases: [10 lectures] Equilibrium, diffusion
between two insoluble phases, ideal stage, local diffusion, overall diffusion (4 lectures), material
balance  in  co-current  processes;  counter-current  processes;  stage-wise  processes;  continuous
and batch processes (4 lectures), minimum stages for total reflux (2 lectures).
Gas-Liquid Mass Transfer: [8 lectures] Bubble columns, multi-stage absorption, tray efficiency, NTU
(Number of Transfer Units) (4 lectures), HTU (Height of Transfer Unit), wetted-wall towers, tray
towers, packed towers, Ergun equation, end effects and axial mixing, q-line location (4 lectures).
Special Cases in Gas-Liquid Mass Transfer: [12 lectures] Liquid-vapor equilibrium (1 lecture),  vapor
pressure  curve,  triple  point,  critical  point,  Clausius-Clapeyron  equation,  absolute  humidity,
saturation,  humidification,  dry-bulb  temperature,  dew  point,  psychrometric  charts,  wet-bulb
temperature, the Lewis relation (5 lectures), distillation - Pressure-Temperature- Concentration
phase  diagram  for  binary  systems,  constant  pressure  and  constant  temperature  equilibria  (4
lectures),  relative  volatility,  Raoult’s  law,  azeotropes,  enthalpy  concentration  diagrams
Liquid-Extraction  (Solvent  Extraction)  &  Solid-Fluid  Operations:  [4  lectures]  Basics  Definitions
including  feed,  solvent,  extract,  raffinate  (2  lectures);  liquid-liquid  equilibria,  the  mixture  rule,
effect of temperature and pressure, three liquid systems (2 lectures).
Experiments on mass transfer such as
Diffusivity in gases, diffusivity in liquids (3 experiments)
Absorption such as packed bed tower/ plate column (4 experiments)
Distillation (3 experiments)
1.  Treybal R.E. (2017) Mass Transfer Operation, 3rd Ed., McGraw Hill Education, New Delhi.
2.  Dutta, B.K. (2007) Principles of Mass Transfer and Separation Processes, 2nd edition, Prentice
Hall of India
1. McCabe W.L., Smith J.C. and Harriott P. (2017), Unit Operations of Chemical Engineering, 7th
Ed., McGraw Hill
Online Course Material
1.  Majumdor S.K. and Das C., Mass Transfer Operations I, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati,
2.  Mandal B., Mass Transfer Operations I, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati.
Department  Mechanical Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  To inculcate understanding, formulation, designing and solving problems with concepts in
conduction, convection and radiation
2.  To explain design concepts of fins, heat exchangers
3.  To introduce physical background associated with empirical correlations for heat transfer
coefficients using real world problems
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Analyze empirical situation of steady and transient conduction heat transfer
2.  Evaluate transfer coefficients in natural and forced convection in and out of control areas
3.  Assess performance of various heat exchangers
4.  Solve numerical problems related to conduction and radiation heat transfer
Introduction (1 Lectures): Modes of heat transfer, Fourier’s law, conductivity, diffusivity
Introduction to Heat conduction (3 Lectures): General heat conduction equations, 1D Heat
conduction, Boundary and initial conditions, Heat generation
conduction (4 Lectures):  Heat
in  plane  wall, cylinder, sphere,
network analysis, critical radius of insulation, heat transfer from fins
Transient heat conduction (4 Lectures): Lumped system analysis, transient heat conduction in large
plane walls, long cylinders and sphere with spatial effect, Heisler and Grober charts
Numerical methods of heat conduction (2 Lectures): Finite difference formulation, numerical
methods for 1D and 2D steady state heat conduction
Introduction  to  convection (4 Lectures): Velocity  and thermal boundary layer, laminar, turbulent
flows, solution of boundary layer equations, Non-dimensional numbers
External heat transfer (4 Lectures): Drag and heat transfer, parallel flow over flat plates, flow across
cylinders and spheres
Internal heat transfer (4 Lectures): Mean Velocity and Temperature, Critical Reynolds number, The
entrance regions, Hydrodynamic and thermal entry lengths, fully developed flow
Natural/free convection (2 Lectures): Physical Mechanism, Natural convection over surfaces, Criteria
for forced and natural convection
Boiling and condensation (3 Lectures): Boiling Curve, Nucleate boiling, film boiling, Dropwise and
film condensation, Nusselt’s theory of film condensation
Heat  Exchangers  (4  Lectures):  Classifications,  Overall  Heat  Transfer  Coefficient,  LMTD,
Effectiveness-NTU method, Operation Issues, Introduction to Design of Heat Exchanger
Introduction to radiation (4 Lectures): Physical Mechanism, Radiations laws, Intensity of Radiation,
View factors (3 Lectures): View Factor Integral for diffuse surfaces, Radiation exchange, Electric
1.  Incropera, F. P. & Dewitt, D. P., (2011), Fundamental of Heat and Mass  Transfer, John
Wiley & Sons
2.  Cengel, Y. A. & Ghajar, A. J.,(2008),Heat and Mass Transfer, McGraw Hill
1. Holman J.P., Heat Transfer, Tata McGraw-Hill Edition, New Delhi
Chemical Reaction Engineering
Department  Chemical Engineering
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce basic concepts of reaction kinetics and chemical reactors.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Have fair understanding of basic concepts of chemical engineering reaction kinetics and
2.  Design and operate a chemical reactor.
Introduction: [4 lectures] General understanding and background, Definition of rate of reaction,
Concepts  of  rate  equations,  stoichiometry  and  rate  laws,  types  of  reactors,  industrial
reactions and reactors.
Reaction  kinetics:  [10  lectures]  Determination  of  kinetic  parameters,  Interpretation  of  data,
design equation using batch- and semi batch- reactors (5 lectures), CSTR, PFR and recycle
reactor, auto catalytic reactions, reactor choice for single reaction, Reactor design for ideal
flow reactors (5 lectures).
Design  for  Multiple  Reactions:  [6  lectures]  Parallel  and  series  reactions,  analysis  of  product
distribution  and  determination  of  reactor  size  (3  lectures),  selectivity  and  yield  factors,
Denbigh reactions, reactor choice for multiple reactions (3 lectures).
Reactor  design  and  operation:  [14  lectures]  Isothermal  and  non-Isothermal  design  of  ideal
reactors,  tubular  reactor,  auto-thermal  process  (5  lectures),  CSTR,  first  order  reversible
reaction,  Residence  time  distribution  (RTD)  theory,  role  of  RTD  in  reactor  behavior  (5
lectures), age distribution (E) of fluid, relationship between E and F curve; non-ideal flow (4
Catalytic reaction: [8 lectures] Rate controlling steps, intra- and inter- particle mass transfer,
Thiele  modulus  and  effectiveness  factor,  performance  equations  (4  lectures),  product
distribution  in  multiple  reactions,  Unreacted  core  model  for  spherical  particles,  rate  of
reaction, rate-controlling step determination (4 lectures).
1.  Residence Time Distribution (3 h)
2.  Kinetics of reaction (3h) such as condensation polymerization etc.
3.  Batch reactor (6h)
4.  Flow Reactors (18 h) CSTR PFR Tubular
5.  Catalysis (3h)
6.  Half-life method analysis of kinetic data (3h)
7.  Batch reactive distillation (6h)
1.  Fogler H. S., (2006), Elements of Chemical Reaction Engineering, 4th Ed., Pearson-
2.  Levenspiel O., (2000), Chemical Reaction Engineering, 3rd Ed., John Wiley and Sons.
Schmidt L. D., (2005), The Engineering of Chemical Reactions, 2nd Ed., Oxford University Press.
Online Course Material
Mandal,  B.,  CHEMICAL  REACTION  ENGINEERING  –  I,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Chemical Engineering IIT Guwahati, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/103/103103153/
The Instructor will:
B.Tech ME, MT, CHE
1.  Demonstrate the validity and error in the numerical results
2.  Explain numerical techniques for a variety of problems
3.  Introduce how to solve numerically algebraic equations, linear systems of equations,
approximation and ordinary differential equations.
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Develop an understanding of numerical error and applicability of a particular method.
2.  Solve numerically algebraic equations, linear systems of equations and ordinary differential
3.  Carry out numerical interpolation, differentiation and integration.
Errors in computation [2 Lecture]: Numerical Algorithms and errors, source and types of errors,
error propagation, floating point representation, rounding error and floating point arithmetic.
Roots of equation [8 Lecture]: Iterative methods, order of convergence, Iterative methods for roots
of nonlinear system of equations.
Linear systems of equations [8 Lecture]: Direct and iterative methods (Jacobi, Gauss Seidel), rate of
convergence  of  iterative  methods,  Condition  number,  Power  and  inverse  power  methods  for
eigenvalue problems, matrix factorization schemes (LU, QR, spectral, Schur, polar, SVD).
Interpolation [7 Lecture]:  Lagrange, Newton  divided  difference  formula,  Newton’s  interpolations,
errors in interpolation.
Differentiation and Integration [7 Lecture]: Differentiation using interpolation formulas, Integration
using interpolation, Newton-Cotes formulas, Gauss quadrature rules.
Ordinary  differential  equations  [4  Lecture]:  Taylor  series  method,  Euler’s  Method,  Modified  Euler’s
Methods, multistep methods, Runge-Kutta Methods.
Advanced methods for Differential Equations [6 Lecture]: Adaptive methods, BVP finite difference
methods and their extension to PDEs, introduction to parallel computation.
1.  S.S. Sastry, (2012) Introductory Methods of Numerical Analysis, PHI Learning.
2.  E. Kreyszig, (2010) Advanced Engineering Mathematics, Wiley.
3.  S.C. Chapra, (2008) Applied Numerical Methods with MATLAB for Engineers and Scientists,
4.  Golub, G.H., and Loan, C.F.V., (2000) Matrix Computation, JHU Press.
5.  Santosh Kumar Gupta, 2012, Numerical Methods for Engineers, New Academic Sciences.
1.  R.L. Burden and J.D. Faires, (2011) Numerical Analysis, Cengage Learning.
2.  J.H Mathews and K.D. Fink, (2006) Numerical Methods using Matlab, Pearson Education.
3.  R. Süli and D.F. Mayers, (2003) Introduction to Numerical Analysis, Cambridge University
1.  Lal, R. and Banerjee S., Numerical Analysis, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Mathematics, IIT Roorkee, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111107062/
2.  Usha, R., Numerical Analysis, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mathematics, IIT
Department  Chemical Engineering
Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Offered for  BTech
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background of basic concepts in thermodynamics for chemical engineers such as fugacity,
activity  coefficient,  vapor-liquid  equilibrium  and  reaction  equilibrium  while  focusing  on
thermodynamics of fluids, equilibria and processes
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain understanding of thermodynamic aspects relevant to chemical engineering
2.  Learn about the importance of thermodynamics for mixing, equilibria and processes
Review : Laws of thermodynamics, PVT behavior of fluids, Gibb’s phase rule, cubic equations of state
and generalized correlations. [2 lectures]
Vapor-liquid equilibrium (VLE): Phase rule, simple models for VLE, VLE by modified Raoult’s law(4
lectures), VLE from K-value correlations, Flash calculations(2 lectures). [6 lectures]
Solution Thermodynamics: Fundamental property relationships (1 lecture), free energy and chemical
potential  (1  lecture),  partial  properties,  definition  of  fugacity  and  fugacity  coefficient    of  pure
species and species in solution (4 lectures), the ideal solution and excess properties (3 lectures).
Liquid phase properties from VLE: Models for excess Gibbs energy, heat effects and property change
on mixing [5 lectures]
Liquid-Liquid  Equilibria:  Vapor-Liquid-Liquid  Equilibria  (2  lectures);  Solid-Liquid  Equilibria  (2
lectures); Solid-Gas Equilibria (2 lectures) [6 lectures]
Chemical  reaction  equilibria:  Equilibrium  criterion,  equilibrium  constant,  evaluation  of  equilibrium
constant  at  different  temperatures  (3  lectures),  equilibrium  conversion  of  single  reactions,
multireaction equilibria (4 lectures). [7 lectures]
Thermodynamic  Analysis of Processes: Work and free energy, availability (2  lectures), analysis of
mixing, separation processes (3 lectures), heat exchange, lost work calculations (2 lectures). [7
1. Smith J.M., Van Ness H.C. and Abbott M.M., (2005), Introduction to Chemical Engineering
Thermodynamics, 7th Ed., McGraw Hill.
1.  Rao, Y.V.C., (1997), Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics, University Press, Hyderabad.
2.  Koretsky M.D., (2004), Engineering and Chemical Thermodynamics, John Wiley & sons.
3.  Kyle B.G., (1999), Chemical and Process Thermodynamics, 3rd ed., Prentice Hall.
4.  Sandler S.I. (2006), Chemical, Biochemical and Engineering Thermodynamics, 4th Ed., John
Wiley & Sons.
Online Course Material
1. Ananth M.S., Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Chemical Engineering, IIT Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103106070/
Department  Mechanical Engineering
Heat Transfer Lab
Prerequisite  Heat and Mass Transfer
B. Tech (ME)
The instructor will:
Program Compulsory (PC)
1)  Provide the practical knowledge with regard to the determination of rate of heat exchange in
various modes of heat transfer
2)  Provide practical exposure to various temperature measurement instruments and its working
The students will have the ability to:
1)  Compare the performance of different convection processes
2)  Measure the heat transfer properties of various metals
3)  Understand basic laws of radiation heat transfer
4)  Measure the temperature of objects using different temperature measurement instruments
1.  Study on Temperature distribution during 1-D heat transfer in (a) Plain Wall (b) Cylinder (C)
Sphere. (2 week)
2.  Measurement of Thermal Conductivity of unknown material. (1 week)
3.  Effect of Size of Plain wall on Temperature distribution and contact resistance. (1 week)
4.  Demonstration of domestic solar water heating system (Time vs Temperature plots). (1 week)
5.  Investigation of the influence of solar luminous intensity, the water flow rate and the angle of
incidence of the light on the efficiency and temperature difference. (1 week)
6.  Study on forced and free convection heat transfer for flow over flat plate, Tube bundle and Fins.
7.  Testing  the  accuracy  and  time  response  of  different  temperature  sensors  (PT100,  NTC,
Thermocouple,  Mercury  Thermometer,  Gas  Pressure  Thermometer,  Bimetallic  Thermometer).
8.  Calibration  of  PT100  temperature  sensor  and  derive  equation  of  temperature  as  function  of
resistance. (1 week)
9.  Calibration of K-Type thermocouple temperature sensor and derive equation of temperature as
function of voltage. (1 week)
10. Study  on  validation  of  different  radiation  laws  (a)  Lambert’s  Distance  Law  (b)  Lambert’s
Direction Law (Cosine Law) (C) Stefan Boltzmann’s Law (d) Kirchhoff’s Law. (2 week)
1.  Incropera,  F.  P.  &  Dewitt,  D.  P., (2011), Fundamental of Heat and Mass Transfer, John
Wiley & Sons
2.  Cengel, Y. A. & Ghajar, A. J., (2008), Heat and Mass Transfer, McGraw Hill
3.  Holman J.P., Heat Transfer, Tata McGraw-Hill Edition, New Delhi
Mass Transfer II
Mass Transfer I
L-T-P [C]  3-0-3 [4.5]
The Instructor will:
Provide details of mass transfer unit operations and overview of the equipment. This is a 2nd
course in the series of mass transfer followed by mass transfer I.
The students are expected to:
Gain detailed understanding of the mass transfer unit operations and it’s industrial applications.
Mass Transfer Overview and Diffusion in Solids: [4 lectures] various solid geometries in diffusion (1
lecture), diffusion (1 lecture), structure of solids and diffusion (2 lectures)
Gas Absorption (in Liquids/ Solvents): [12 lectures] Equilibrium solubility (1 lecture), two component
systems,  ideal  and  non-ideal  liquid  solutions,  solvent  selection  (5  lectures),  material  balances  –
countercurrent flow, absorbers, concurrent flow, stage operations, absorption factor, non-isothermal
operations, tray efficiency (4 lectures), continuous contact equipment, Henry’s law, transfer units,
multi-component systems (2 lectures).
Distillation  in  Tray  Columns:  [10  lectures]  Multicomponent  systems,  flash  vaporization,  partial
condensation (3 lectures), differential distillation, Ponchon and Savarit Method for tray towers, Single
Vs  multiple  feeds  (3  lectures),  McCabe  &  Thiele  Method,  reflux  ratios,  azeotropic  mixtures  (4
Distillation  with  Packed  Towers:  [8  lectures]  Multicomponent  systems,  reflux  ratios  (3  lectures).
Lewis and Matheson Calculation, Method  of Thiele and Geddes, azeotropic  distillation (3  lectures),
extractive distillation, low pressure distillation (2 lectures).
Solid-Fluid  Operations:  [8  lectures]  Effect  of  temperature  and  pressure,  liquid-solid  systems,  the
Freundlich  equation  (3  lectures),  stage  wise  operations,  equipment,  fluidized  and  moving  beds,
principles of ion-exchange, drying (5 lectures)
Liquid-liquid extraction (3 experiments)
Cooling Tower (2 experiments)
Membrane process (2 experiments)
1.  Treybal, R.E., (2017), Mass Transfer Operation, 3rd Ed., McGraw Hill Education.
2.  Dutta, B.K., (2007), Principles of Mass Transfer and Separation Processes, 2nd edition, Prentice
Hall of India.
3.  Foust, A.S., (1980), Principles of Unit Operations, 2nd Edition, Wiley, New York.
1. McCabe W.L., Smith J.C. and Harriott P. (2017), Unit Operations of Chemical Engineering, 7th
Ed., McGraw Hill
Online Course Material
1.  Majumdor S.K. and Das C., Mass Transfer Operations I, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
2.  Mandal  B.,  Mass  Transfer  Operations  I,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Chemical
Department  Chemical Engineering
Process Plant Design & Economics
L-T-P  [C]  3-0-3 [4.5]
Offered for  B.Tech.
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce basic concepts in Process Equipment Design, engineering economics, safety features
and its application to chemical engineering.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand technical and business related information to design equipment required in
2.    Follow a logical sequence of interconnected unit operations for an effective chemical
Mechanical  design  of  process  equipment:  Background  and  relevance,  Concept  of  design  and
economics  in  chemical  industries,  pressure  vessels,  tall  columns,  process  piping  design  (5
lectures);  Materials  and  Fabrication  Selection,  Design  variations,  Selection  criteria,  process
calculations (4 lectures). [9 lectures]
Heat Exchange Equipment: Rating of an existing unit and design of a new system of shell and tube
heat exchangers (4 lectures); design of multiple-effect evaporator (3 lectures). [7 lectures]
Mass  Exchange  Equipment:  Design  of  a  sieve-tray  tower  for  distillation  (3  lectures);  design  of  a
packed tower for gas absorption (3 lectures). [6 lectures]
Pump and Compressor: Types of pumps and selection criteria (2 lectures), calculations of a pumping
circuit  and  rating,  characteristic  curves  (2  lectures),  Cavitation  and  NPSH,  blowers  and
compressors,  Single/multistage  compression,  Typical  multistage  compressor  calculations  (4
lectures). [8 lectures]
Economics: Basic concepts in economics, Economic Design criteria; Cost and Asset Accounting; Cost
Estimation; Interest and Investment Costs (4 lectures); Profitability, estimation of various costs
to  install  and  run  a  plant;  interest  costs  and  present/future  worth  of  cash  flows  (4  lectures);
methods  for  depreciation  calculation;  discounted  cost  flow/net  present  worth  methods  for
profitability analysis (4 lectures). [12 lectures]
1.  Process and mechanical design calculations for process equipment. (6h)
2.  Numerical studies in reactor design. (6h)
3.  Design and analysis of separation equipment. (6h)
4.  Steady-state simulation of flow sheets. (6h)
5.  Optimization and costing in flow sheets. (3h)
6.  Design and analysis of control systems. (3h)
7.  Process flow simulations using commercial simulators. (6h)
8.  Process economics and Profit analysis. (6h)
1.  M.S. Peters, K.D. Timmerhaus, R. West, 2003 ‘Plant Design and Economics for Chemical
Engineers’, 5th edition, McGraw Hill.
2.  R. Smith, 1995, ‘Chemical Process Design’, McGraw Hill.
1.  F.C. Jelen and J.H. Black, 1992, ‘Cost and Optimization Engineering’, McGraw Hill, 3rd ed.
2.  S. Walas, 1988,’Chemical Process Equipment Selection and Design’, Butterworth.
Online Course Material
Moholkar V.S., Process Design Decisions and Project Economics, NPTEL course material, Department
of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati,
Transport Phenomena  Number
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide knowledge about momentum, heat and mass transfer in chemical engineering systems and
their analogous behavior.
2.  Train the student to create chemical engineering knowledge using the transport phenomena approach
with special focus on combined transport problems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Identify and analyze the properties and mechanisms of momentum, energy and mass transport.
2.  Analyze, design and solve problems combining these transport phenomena in chemical engineering.
Fractal 1: [14 Lectures]
Basics of Transport phenomena: Introduction (1 lecture), Basic concepts of Vector and Tensor Analysis (3
lectures) [4 lectures]
Momentum  transport:  Basic  concepts,  Euler/Lagrangian  viewpoint,  laminar  and  turbulent  flows  (3
lectures), boundary layers, stress tensor, Shell momentum balances, equations of change, dimensional
analysis (5 lectures), applications to isothermal flow of Newtonian & non-Newtonian fluids (2 lectures).
Fractal 2: [14 Lectures]
Energy transport: Basics of energy transport, conductive, convective and viscous dissipation energy fluxes
(5 lectures), Equations of change for non-isothermal systems (3 lectures), dimensional analysis, and
applications to steady- state conduction and convection (6 lectures) [14 lectures]
Fractal 3: [14 Lectures]
Mass transport: Basics of mass transport, mechanisms, and mass and molar fluxes [3 lectures] Continuity
equation: Derivation for a binary mixture (2 lectures), convection- diffusion  problems,
Unsteady state mass, heat and momentum transport (4 lectures), Formulation of transport problems
from nature (5 lectures). [11 lectures]
Tutorial sheets will be provided every week as homework assignments and will be discussed in the next
slot.  It  will  help  the  students  to  conceptualize  the  problems  and  understand  the  methods  to  solve
transport related problems.
1.  Formulation of transport problems [1 lectures]
2.  Vector, Tensor analysis [1 lectures]
3.  Newtonian and non-Newtonian momentum transport [4 lectures]
4.  Boundary layer problems [1 lectures]
5.  Steady state energy transport [2 lectures]
6.  Flux [1 lectures]
7.  Diffusion and convection [1 lectures]
8.  Unsteady state transport problems [3 lectures]
1.  Bird, R.B., Stewart, W.E. and Lightfoot, E.N., (2006), Transport Phenomena, 2nd ed., Wiley India.
2.  Welty, C. E., Wicks, R. E., Wilson, G. L. Rorrer, (2007), Fundamentals of Momentum, Heat, and Mass
Transfer. 5th ed., Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.
1.  Geankoplis C.J., 2004, Transport Processes and Separation Process Principles, 4th Ed., Prentice-Hall of
2.  Brodkey, R.S., Hershey H.C., 2003, Basic concepts in transport phenomena, a unified approach. Vol 1,
3.  Deen, W.M., (1998), Analysis of Transport Phenomena, Oxford University Press.
4.  Thompson, W.J., (2000) Introduction to Transport Phenomena, Prentice Hall.
Online Course Material
‘Transport Phenomena’ by Prof. S.K. Gupta, NPTEL: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/102/103102024/
Process Control & AI
The Instructor will:
1.   To impart knowledge about the dynamics and control strategies for linear and non-linear
processes along with control elements in continuous and discrete domains.
2.  Introduce various paradigms that come under the broad umbrella of AI and the application of
Internet of Things (IoT) in process Control.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Have fair understanding of the dynamics and control strategies for linear and non-linear
processes along with control elements in continuous and discrete domains.
2.   Have fair knowledge of IoT and AI application and have the ability to develop an understanding
of where and how AI can be used in the field of chemical engineering.
The concept of process dynamics and control, History and Relation of AI and IoT in control systems
Review of feedback control, On-Off Control, Valve Gains, transfer function, dynamic model building
Dynamic Behavior of Processes
Response of first and second order processes, Approximation of higher-order processes transfer
function, Process with time delays, MIMO Processes [4 lectures]
Stability and Controller Design
Review of stability analysis (Routh-Hurwitz test), root-locus method [4
lectures] PID Controller design, Tuning, and Applications in Process control
Review of Bode and Nyquist plots, Gain and Phase margins, Stability using frequency response [5
Effect of process parameters on Bode and Nyquist plots, control system design by frequency
response methods [4 lectures]
AI and IoT in control systems
Modes of control action, integration of AI and IoT, Fuzzy controllers, neural network for controllers
Control of complex chemical processes and equipment, valve, real time computer control of process
equipment [5 Lectures]
AI in Chemical Processes
AI techniques in process monitoring, fault detection and diagnosis. [5 lectures]
1.  Basics of control system components, signals and standards (2 hrs.)
2.  Pressure measuring devices (2 hrs.)
3.  Level measurement (2 hrs)
4.  Flow measuring devices (2 hrs.)
5.  Temperature measuring devices (2 hrs)
6.  Humidity, density, viscosity and pH measuring devices (2 hrs.)
7.  Pressure controllers: regulators, safety valves (2 hrs)
8.  Flow control actuators: different types of valves (2 hrs.)
9.  Computer process control, PLC, DCS, SCADA (4 hrs.)
10. AI/IoT in Chemical plants (4 hrs)
1.  Coughanowr D. R. and LeBlanc S., (2008), Process System Analysis and Control, 3rd Ed.,
2.  Quantrille, T.E. and Liu, Y.A., (1991), Artificial Intelligence in Chemical Engineering, Academic
1.  Stephanopoulos G., (1990), Chemical Process Control – An Introduction to Theory and
Practice, Prentice-Hall of India.
2.  Boullart, L., Krijgsman, A., Vingerhoeds,R.A., (1992), Application of Artificial Intelligence
in Process Control, Pergamon Press Ltd. England.
Online Course Material
Jogwar, S., Chemical Process Control, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemical
Engineering IIT Bombay, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/101/103101142/
2.  Rengasamy, R., Process Control-Design, Analysis and Assessment, NPTEL Course
Material, Department of Chemical Engineering IIT Madras,
Department  Mechanical Engineering
Fluid Mechanics Lab
Offered for  B. Tech (ME)
Prerequisite  Fluid Mechanics
1.  To introduce various forms of flow measuring devices and techniques
2.  To provide hands on experience on in the area of experimental fluid mechanics
The students will have:
1) Ability to design experimental methods for fluid flow problems
1. Ability to interpret data from experiments of fluid flows and usage of charts and hand
Contents (13-14 Classes)
1.  Determination of head loss in pipes having different diameters, different materials and
2.  Determination of pressure drop at different types of bends and valves
3.  Reynolds apparatus to measure critical Reynolds number for pipe flows
4.  Lift and Drag measurement in an airfoil using pressure measurements
5.  Wake profile measurement
6.  Wind tunnel air velocity profile measurement using Pitot static tube
7.  Working principle of different flow meters (orifice plate, venture meter, turbine, Rota
meter, electromagnetic flow meter
8.  Flow measurement around an object or blockage using PIV technique
1.   Fox, R. W., Pitchard,P. J.,and McDonald, A. T., (2010), Introduction to Fluid Mechanics,
7thEdition, John Wiley & Sons Inc.
2.  Cimbala, J.M., Cengel, Y. A. (2010), Fluid Mechanics: Fundamentals and Applications,
15. Detailed Course Content of Programme Elective Courses
Industrial  management  and  safety  for
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide information about handling of hazardous materials and safety in Chemical plants.
2.  Illustrate the method of risk assessment to avoid accidents in plants.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the industrial practices of handling hazardous materials and safety assessment.
2.    Assess the safety in chemical plants and provide recommendations to avoid accidents in
Risk Assessment and safety: Introduction; Probability theory; event tress; fault trees; LOPA; QRA;
practical application of QRA; software for QRA; (4 lectures) safety and Loss Prevention; hazard
and risk; accident and loss statistics; nature of accident process; inherent safety (4 lectures). [8
Toxicity, Dispersion models and Industrial Hygiene: Definition; effect of toxicants; dose and response
curves;  relative  toxicity  and  threshold  limits;  Parameters  affecting  dispersion(4  lectures);
neutrally buoyant dispersion models; toxic effect criteria; release mitigation, Govt. Regulations
for industrial safety; occupational health hazards and their control(5 lectures). [9 lectures]
Fires  and  Explosions  in  Chemical  plants:  Fire  Triangle;  flammability  characteristics  of  liquid  and
vapour;  flammability  diagram;  ignition  energy;  auto  ignition  and  auto  oxidation  (4  lectures);
adiabatic compression; ignition sources; sprays and mists; explosions; fire protection systems,
designs to prevent fires and explosions; ventilation; sprinkler systems(5 lectures). [9 lectures]
Accident Investigation and Case Histories: Theories; methodologies; impact of human factors; root
cause analysis;  developing effective  recommendations (5  lectures) ; study of  major accidents,
Strategies  to  avoid  accidents  (such  as,  System  design;  chemical  reactivity;  static  electricity;
procedures, etc.) (4 lectures). [9 lectures]
Integrity Management: Definition; risk management; Barrier models; Safety Critical Equipment (3
lectures); Risk Register; Project Health, Safety and Environment Review; Safety Management;
reliability management (4 lectures). [7 lectures]
1.    Daniel A. Crowl and Joseph F Louvar, 2002, Chemical Process Safety Fundamentals with
Applications, 3rd edition, Prentice Hall.
2.  Trevor A. Kletz., 2001, Hazop & Hazan, 2nd edition, I.ChemE.
Online Course Material
Sinha, S., Chemical Process Safety, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemical Engineering
IIT Roorkee, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/107/103107156/
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide information about discovery, design and delivery in the chemical industry.
2.  Illustrate the conceptual implementation of product development in industries.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the process associated with new product development and commercialization in
General  features:  Introduction,  Factors,  idea  generation  and  screening  (screening  vs.  high
resolution), Framework for chemical product design (3 lectures), processing and verification of new
material, Classification of chemical products, environmental impact and sustainability (3 lectures).
Product development aspects: Structure of Chemical Product Engineering, concept development and
testing (4 lectures), product architecture and industrial design (2lectures). [6 lectures]
Computer  aided  methods:  Heuristics,  Molecular  dynamics  for  property  prediction(5  lectures),
Population-based model, Factorial design, Group contribution methods (5 lectures). [10 lectures]
Case  studies:  water  filter,  heat  exchanger,  paints  and  inks,  adhesives,  liquid  fuels  by  cracking  of
heavy oil, production of fine Chemicals, fuels and chemicals from syngas, etc. [6 lectures]
1.  Montgomery, D. C., 2009, Design and Analysis of Experiments, John Wiley & Sons.
2.  Jess,A., Wasserscheid, P., 2020, Chemical Technology: From Principles to Products. Willey,
1.  Ulrich, Karl T., Eppinger, Steve D., and Yang, Maria C., 2020, Product Design and Development,
7th ed., McGraw-Hill Education.
2.  Recent published journal articles on relevant topics.
The Instructor will:
1. Provide general principle and mechanism of different chemical engineering processes.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand and correlate the principles of different processes and suggest design solutions to
engineering problems related to separation.
Particulate  matter:  Introduction,  Particulate  matter,  size  reduction  (4  lectures),  enlargement  and
separation, Crushers and Grinders (3 lectures). [7 lectures]
Packed Columns and Granular Beds: Motion of Particles in a Fluid, flow through beds and columns (4
lectures),  Single  Fluid  flow  through  Granular  Beds,  Specific  Surface  and  Voidage  (5  lectures),
Packings, pressure drop in packed column (5 lectures). [14 lectures]
Filtration and Membrane Separation: Theory, filtration equipment, membrane processes (5 lectures),
general equation, microfiltration, fouling, electrolysis (5 lectures), reverse osmosis, pervaporation
(4 lectures). [14 lectures]
Flotation  and  sedimentation:  Fundamental  concept,  froth  flotation  (3  lectures),  gravity  settling,
centrifugation, design criteria (4 lectures). [7 lectures]
1.  Harker, J. H., Backhurst, J. R., Richardson, J.F., 2013, Coulson and Richardson’s Chemical
Engineering, 2nd Volume, 5th Edition, Butterworth-Heinemann.
2.  W.L. McCabe, J. Smith, P. Harriot, 2005, Unit Operations of Chemical Engineering, 7th Edition,
1.  E. Ortega-Rivas, 2012, Unit Operations of Particulate Solids: Theory and Practice, CRC  Press,
Online Course Material
1. Kishore N, Mechanical Unit Operations, NPTEL course material, Department of Chemical
Engineering, IITGuwahati, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/103/103103155/
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide an insight to the membrane-based separations that is an integral part of the down-
stream processing of various industries.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Develop necessary skills to design appropriate membrane-based separation technique/s as
per the need.
Introduction: Membrane and membrane materials, Material properties. [4 lectures]
Membrane  Preparation:  Phase  inversion  process,  Preparation  of  composite  membrane,  Inorganic
membranes (4 lectures)
Membrane Characterization: Microfiltration (MF) characterization, Ultrafiltration (UF) characterization
Membrane Transport: Pressure driven transport through porous and nonporous membrane, Osmosis
concepts  (5  lectures),  Reverse  Osmosis  (RO),  Nanofiltration  (NF),  Transport  models,  Micellar-
enhanced and affinity UF (5 lectures). MF transport, Facilitated transport, Membrane contactors
(3 lectures). [13 lectures]
Concentration/  Temperature  driven  and  Hybrid  membrane  processes:  Liquid  membranes,  Gas
separation, Membrane distillation, hybrid membrane processes [5 lectures]
Challenges  and  solutions:  Membrane  fouling  (2  lectures),  RO,  NF,  UF,  MF(5  lectures),  Dialysis,
Electrodialysis, Pervaporation (5 lectures). [12 lectures]
1. Baker, R.W., (2004), Membrane Technology and Applications, 2nd Edition, Membrane
Technology and Research Inc., Menlo Park, CA.
1.  Tewari,  P.K.,  (2016),  Nanocomposite  Membrane  Technology:  Fundamentals  and
Applications, CRC Press, Taylor & Francis Group.
Online Course Material
Mohant K, Membrane Technology, NPTEL course material, Department of Chemical Engineering,  IIT
Applications  of  Artificial  Intelligence
B.Tech, Dual Degree
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background on AI in chemical engineering and allied systems
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain fundamental understanding of the application of AI in chemical and allied engineering.
2.  Learn to develop AI model equations, approaches for chemical and allied engineering
3.  Learn to write basic codes of AI for simple systems.
Artificial Intelligence in Chemical Engineering Background: Early Attempts, Expert System Era (1
Lecture) , Neural Network Era, Effects and Lacunae of Expert System Era and Neural Network Era
on  Chemical  Engineering  (2  Lectures),  Deep  Learning  and  Data  Science  Era  (2  Lectures).  [5
Application of AI in modelling: AI in chemical process modelling (2 Lectures), AI in optimisation of
chemical  process  (2  Lectures),  Application  of  neural  networks  in  chemical  process  control,
Modelling  Real-World  Processes:  Deep  and  Shallow  Knowledge  Integrated  with  Approximate
Reasoning  in  a  Diagnostic  Expert  System  (4  Lectures),  Application  of  AI  techniques  in  fault
detection and diagnosis of chemical engineering (3 Lectures), Numeric to Symbolic Structures and
Relationships (1 Lecture). [12 Lectures]
Case  Studies:  Oxidative  coupling  of  methane  (OCM)  over  the  Mn/Na2WO4/SiO2  catalyst  in  a
fluidized  bed  reactor  (4  Lectures),  Control  of  Reactive  Distillation  Column  (4  Lectures),  Use  of
Qualitative    Models    in     Discrete     Event     Simulation     to     Analyze     Malfunctions     in
Processing Systems (4 Lectures), Fault Detection and Diagnosis Using Artificial Neural Networks
(4  Lectures),  A  Modular  Approach  to  Multiple  Faults  Diagnosis  (4  Lectures),  Design  of  Protein
Purification Processes by Heuristic Search (4 Lectures). [24 Lectures]
AI in Chemical Engineering Recent Trends and Future Outlook: Emergence in large  scale
systems of self-organizing intelligent agents. [1 Lecture]
1.  Michael L. Mavrovouniotis, 1990, Artificial Intelligence in Process Engineering, Academic
1.  Venkat Venkatasubramanian,  2019,  The  Promise  of  Artificial  Intelligence  in  Chemical
Engineering: Is It Here, Finally?, AIChE, Vol. 65, No. 2
2.  Zeinab Hajjar, Shokoufe Tayyebi and Mohammad Hosein Eghbal Ahmadi, 2018, Application
of AI in Chemical Engineering.
3.  Eghbal-Ahmadi M-H, Zaerpour M, Daneshpayeh M, Mostoui N. Optimization of fluidized bed
reactor  of  oxidative  coupling  of  methane.  International  Journal  of  Chemical  Reactor
Engineering. 2012; 10:1-21
4.  Araromi DO, Sonibare JA, Emuoyibofarhe JO. Fuzzy identification of reactive distillation for
acetic  acid  recovery  from  waste  water.  Journal  of  Environmental  Chemical  Engineering.
5.  Shih-Bo  Hung  and  Ming-Jer  Lee,  2006,  Control  of  Different  Reactive  Distillation
Configurations, AIChE, Vol. 52, No. 4
6. Neha Sharma and Kailash Singh, 2010, Control of Reactive Distillation Column:  A
Review, International Journal of Chemical Reactor Engineering, Vol. 8
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1. Provide background information about the petrochemical engineering including definition,
petrochemical products and processes
The students are expected to:
1. Gain a holistic view of Petrochemical Engineering and learn about the importance of
petrochemical products and processes
Introductory Concepts for Crude Petroleum and Petrochemicals: Composition of crude oil,  physical
properties of crude  oil,  origin of  hydrocarbons  (3  lectures),  petrochemical global and domestic
petrochemical  industries,  definitions,  feedstock  for  petrochemicals,  intermediate  and  finished
products in petrochemicals (3 lectures) [6 lectures]
Chemical  Processes  in  Petrochemicals:  Dissociation  and  dehydrogenation  (thermal  and  catalytic
cracking)  (3  lectures),  hydrogenation,  addition,  condensation,  polymerization  (3  lectures)  [6
Petrochemical  Intermediates  from  Petroleum  Products:  Introduction,  manufacturing  processes  for
carbon  black  from  methane/  natural  gas,  polyethylene  production  from  ethane  (5  lectures),
Terephthalic  acid  and  PET  from  from  Xylene,  Naphtha  for  olefins,  sulfuric  acid  from  sulfur,
cosmetics and food grade coating wax from wax, naphtha cracking (5 lectures). [10 lectures]
Petrochemical  Finished  Products  from  Intermediates:  Manufacturing  of  paint,  fiber,  plastics  (5
lectures), rubber, Nylons, fibers (3 lectures), processing of plastic, rubber and fibers (4 lectures).
Layout  and  Unit  Operations  in  Petrochemical  Plants:  Petrochemical  complex,  Reactors  processing
units, offsite facilities, power and steam generating plants, cooling tower. [4 lectures]
Sustainability and Latest Trends in Petrochemical Plants: Effluent water treatment, gaseous effluent
treatment, latest trends [4 lectures]
1.  Hatch, Lewis Frederic, and Sami Matar (1981) From hydrocarbons to petrochemicals, Gulf
Publishing Company, Book Division.
2.  Chaudhuri U. R. (2011) Fundamentals of Petroleum and Petrochemical Engineering, CRC Press
1. Meyers, Robert, and Robert Allen Meyers, eds. (2005) Handbook of petrochemicals production
Online Course Materials
Pant, K.K. and Kunzru, D., Petroleum Refinery Engineering, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Chemical Engineering, IIT Delhi and Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Kanpur
Petroleum Refinery Process Modelling
B.Tech., Dual Degree in Chemical Engineering
The Instructor will provide:
1. Thorough understanding in the area of process models for petroleum refinery
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand various process models available for refinery processes.
2.  Learn simulations using Aspen Hysys/ Matlab for petroleum refinery units
Energy conservation and new trends in petroleum refinery operations: Data Driven Modelling of
Atmospheric  and  Vacuum  Distillation  Unit  (4  Lectures),  Data  Analytics  of:  Fluid  Catalytic
Cracking (FCC) Process (2 Lectures), Continuous Catalyst Regeneration (CCR) and Reforming
Process  (3  Lectures),  Hydroprocessing  Units  (2  Lectures).  Alkylation,  Delayed  Coking,  and
Refinery-Wide Simulations (3 Lectures). [14 lectures]
Experiments [28 hours]
1.  Building the Model in Aspen HYSYS Petroleum Refining Components Design
2.  Model Applications to Process Optimization
3.  Rebuild Model Using “Backblending” Procedure
4.  Simplified VDU Model
5.  Rigorous Model from a Simplified Model
6.  Kinetic Models
7.  Unit-Level Models
8.  Aspen HYSYS Petroleum Refining FCC Model
9.  Calibrating the Aspen HYSYS Petroleum Refining FCC Model
10. Basic FCC Model
11. Perform Case Studies to Quantify Effects of Key FCC Operating Variables
12. Generate Delta-Base Vectors for Linear Programming
13. Aspen HYSYS Petroleum Refining Catalytic Reformer Model
14. Model Calibration
15. Build a Downstream Fractionation System
16. Aspen HYSYS Petroleum Refining HCR Modelling
17. H2-to-Oil Ratio versus Product Distribution, Remained Catalyst Life and Hydrogen
18. Build and Calibrate a Preliminary Reactor Model of HCR
19. Hydrofluoric Acid Alkylation Process Simulation
20. Simulation and Calibration of a Delayed Coking
21. Simplified Model of Delayed Coker by Petroleum Shift
22. Refinery-Wide Process Simulation
1. Y. A. Liu, Ai-Fu Chang, and Kiran Pashikanti, 2018, Petroleum Refinery Process
Modeling Integrated Optimization Tools and Applications, Wiley
Basics of Reliability and Maintainability
Engineering for System Safety
Department  Chemical Engineering
B.Tech, Dual Degree
Prerequisite  Mathematics I and Mathematics II
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background on Reliability Engineering Models that can be integrated for AI
development in system safety.
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain fundamental understanding of the models used for failure detection and reliability
2.  Learn to connect failure and reliability models for AI approach towards system safety.
Introduction: Study of Reliability and Maintainability Engineering, Concepts, Terms and
Definitions, Applications (1 Lecture), Brief History (1 Lecture). [2 Lectures]
Failure Detection Models: Failure Distribution (4 Lectures), Constant Failure Rate Model (5
Lectures), Time Dependent Failure Models (5 Lectures). [14 Lectures]
Reliability Models: Reliability of Systems (4 Lectures), State Dependant Systems, Physical
Reliability Models (5 Lectures), Design for Reliability (5 Lectures). [14 Lectures]
Maintainability: General Overview (4 Lectures), Design for Maintainability (4 Lectures),
Availability (4 Lectures). [12 Lectures]
1.  Problem solving on Failure Detection Models, Reliability Models and on Designing
1.  Charles E. Ebeling, 2004, An Introduction to Reliability and Maintainability Engineering,
3rd Edition, TMH.
2.  Kailash C. Kapur and Michael Pecht, 2014, Reliability Engineering, John Wiley & Sons
1. Krishna B. Mishra, 2008, Reliability Engineering: A Perspective, DOI: 10.1007/978-1-
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide information of various materials that do not follow the characteristics of simple fluid like
water (Newtonian Fluid).
2.  Highlight the underlying intermolecular interactions and its relation to the material properties.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Analyze and explain the anomalous behavior of different fluids.
2.  Explain the rheological behavior of viscoelastic materials and the structure-property relation of
Complex  fluids:  Introduction,  common  features  &  applications  (3  lectures),  Viscoelasticity,
Microstructures,  Intermolecular  and  Surface  forces  (5  lectures,  Forces  in  colloidal  system  and
stability (5 lectures), Mechanical Rheology (2 lectures). [15 lectures]
Types of complex fluids and their properties: Colloidal dispersions, polymeric solutions (4 lectures),
gels, liquid crystals (4 lectures), Emulsions and Blends (3 lectures), Surfactants and micelles (3
lectures). [14 lectures]
Micro  and  Mesoscopic  Systems:  Self-assembly,  phases(4  lectures),  Characterization  of  structure-
property  relationships  in  complex  fluids(5  lectures),  Structures  and  Rheology  of  dispersions(4
lectures). [13 lectures]
1.  R. G. Larson, 1999, The Structure and Rheology of Complex Fluids, 1st Edition, Oxford
2.  Jones, R. A. L., 2002, Soft Condensed Matter, 1st Edition, Oxford University Press.
1. Isaraelachvili, J., 2011, Intermolecular and Surface Forces, 3rd Edition, Academic Press.
Interfacial engineering in soft
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the fundamental concepts of interfaces and its application.
2.  Provide quantitative and conceptual treatment of interfacial forces and phenomena.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Anticipate the stability of a given interface.
2.  Infer microscopic processes at the interface and suggest design solutions to engineering problems.
Interface:  Concept  and  definition,  physical  surfaces,  surface  chemistry  and  physics  of  colloids  (5
lectures), thin films, dispersions, emulsions, foams (5 lectures), interfacial self-assembly, amphiphilic
system (3 lectures), comparison and contrast of liquid and solid interfaces (3 lectures). [16 lectures]
Surfaces  and  forces:  Interfacial  energy  and  forces,  wetting,  shape  of  interfaces  (5  lectures),
Intermolecular forces and potentials; solvation, structural and hydration forces (5 lectures); particle-
particle interactions, thin film stability (3 lectures), self-organized monolayers and bilayers, electro-
kinetic phenomena, adsorption (3 lectures). [16 lectures]
Industrial aspects: Interfacial rheology and transport, Catalysis (4 lectures), reaction-injection moulding,
emulsions and foams that require stabilization (4 lectures), emulsifier, Coating Processes (2 lectures).
1.  Isaraelachvili, J., 2011, Intermolecular and Surface Forces, 3rd Edition, Academic Press.
2.  Ghosh, P., 2009, Colloid and Interface Science, PHI Learning.
1. G.J.M. Koper, 2009, An Introduction to Interfacial Engineering, second edition.
Online Course Material
1. Ghosh, P., Introduction to Interfacial Engineering, NPTEL course material, Department of Chemical
Engineering, IIT Guwahati, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103103033/
Prerequisite  Basic knowledge of bioengineering
The instructor will provide the essential concepts of 3D bioprinting and will apprise the student about
the potential of 3D bioprinting for various applications.
The student will be able to
(i)  analyze the properties and performances of different bioinks.
(ii)  design a bioprinting strategy for specific application.
Introduction  to  bioprinting  (14  lecture):  Scope,  strategies  and  workflow  (3  lecture),  bioinks  :  types,
components, physico-chemical and biological properties (5 lecture), cells and cellular micro-aggregates
in  bioinks  (2  lecture),  cross-linking  strategies  for  bioinks,  commercially  available  bioinks,  bioinks  vs
biomaterial inks, scaffold free bioprinting (4 lecture).
Bioprinting processes (14 lecture): Digital designing of 3D organ/tissue model, (3 lecture), 3D bioprinting
processes:  extrusion  based  bioprinting,  droplet  bioprinting  (4  lecture),  laser  assisted  bioprinting,
stereolithography  based  bioprinting,  novel  bioprinting  processes  (5  lecture),  selection  criteria  for  3D
printing processes, limitation of bioprinting processes (2 lecture).
Application of bioprinting (14 lecture): Bioprinting for tissue engineering and regenerative medicine
(4 lecture), bioprinted tissue model for drug and cosmetic research, bioprinted food (4 lecture), bioprinted
bacterial biofilm and biosensors (2 lecture), Bioprinting in chemical engineering (4 lecture).
Text  book:  W.  Y.  Yeong  and  C.  K.  Chua,  Bioprinting:  Principles  And  Applications,  World  Scientific
Publishing Co Pte Ltd, 2015, 1st Ed
Reference  book:  A.  Khademhosseini,  G.  Camci-Unal,  3D  Bioprinting  in  Regenerative  Engineering:
Principles and Applications, CRC Press , 2018 , 1st Edr
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
3-D Printing: Material Processing and Properties
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. Materials Engineering
The Instructor will introduce:
1.  Importance of 3-D printing of materials for various range of applications
2.  Process control and product quality evaluation through application of basics
The students are expected to gain:
1.  Insight of the evolutionary technology for rapid and cost effective growth of products
into  novel  components  with
Introduction [5 lectures]: 3-D printing small but multipurpose product inspiration, Science fiction to
terminology,  Current  system  configurations,  Construction,
Hardware – software – material Interdependence [5 lectures]:, Essence of hardware, software and
materials, Impact on systems engineering in various industries, Processing philosophy
Raw  Materials  [4  lectures]:  Forms  and  sources  of  raw  materials,  Processing  methods  and
characteristic properties, Material specifications based industries and processing technology e.g.
3-D Printing Processes [2 lectures]: Process flow and basics of stages involved, Process control,
Upgrading options, 3-D product design, evaluation, justification and integration (DEJI) model,
Additive  Manufacturing  of  Metallic  Systems  [5  lectures]:  Light  metals  and  alloys,  Superalloys,
Intermetallic compounds, Shape memory alloys, porous metals, Rare earth permanent magnets
Thermo-mechanical  Effects  [2  lectures]:  Phase  transformation,  Microstructure  evolution,  Variation
in properties, Thermo-mechanical modeling of microstructure evolution and mechanical properties
3-D Printing of Polymers and Hydrogels [5 lectures]: Natural polymers, Synthetic polymers, Design
considerations and guidelines, Mechanics modeling, AM of tooling for mass  production processes,
3-D  bioprinting  hardware,  Reactive  inkjet  printing  of  nylon  materials,  Stimuli  responsive
hydrogels, Biopolymer hydrogel biolinks
3-D Printing of Ceramics and composites [5 lectures]: Processing technology and options, Laminated
object manufacturing, Laser Engineered net shaping, Bio-active ceramics and bio- active glasses,
Engineering  ceramics,  Green-tape-based  AM,  Complex  ceramic  architecture,  Metal  matrix
composites,  Ceramic  matrix  composites,  Polymer  matrix  composites  and  their  variants,  Nano-
Special  Purpose  3-D  Printing  [5  lectures]:  Functionally  graded  materials,  Biomedical  applications,
Biomimetic design model, Frugal design sustainability, Smart material- DNA origami, 4-D printing,
Reconstructive  surgery,  Patient  specific  3-D  printing,  Hydrogen  storage  material,  Printed  and
hybrid electronics enabled by digital AM technologies, Reverse Engineering
Post-processing and Inspection techniques [2 lectures]: Post processing problems and requirements,
Student  Presentation  &  Discussion  [2  lectures]:  Concept  for  developing  prototype  object,
Methodology, Examining novelty and market acceptability, Translation to business idea
1. Gibson, I., et al (Eds.) (2015), Additive Manufacturing Technology: 3D printing, Rapid
Prototyping, and Direct Digital Manufacturing, 2nd Ed., Springer
2.    Maniruzzaman, M.. (Ed.), (2019), 3D and 4D Printing in Bio-medical Applications: Process-
Engineering and Additive Manufacturing, Wiley- VCH Verlag GmbH & Co.
1.  Declan, M.D.. (2019), Polymer Based Additive Manufacturing- Biomedical Applications, Springer
2.  Gu, D., (2015), Laser Additive Manufacture of High-Performance Materials, Springer Verlag
Online Course Material
1.  Ramkumar, J., 2018, NOC: Rapid Manufacturing, Department of Mechanical Engineering; IIT
Department  Chemical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Offered for  BTech
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background knowledge in polymer science and engineering to excite students to pursue
further studies in the area of polymers and composites
The students are expected to gain:
1.  Basic understanding of polymers
2.  Knowledge about application of polymers in traditional as well as advanced areas
Introduction: Origin, basics definitions, examples of polymers and their applications, classification of
polymers  based  on  structure,  processing,  crystallinity(5  lectures),  case  study,  molar  mass
averages,  polymerization  reaction  and  classification,  Tacticity  and  isomerism  in  polymers(5
lectures) [10 lectures]
Amorphous and Crystalline Polymers: Glass transition temperature, amorphous state, definition, free
volume  theory,  polymer  crystallinity,  crystal  structure  and  its  determination,  single  crystals(5
lectures)semicrystalline polymers and examples, degree of crystallinity, melting and DSC, Defects
in Crystalline Polymers (5 lectures)[10 lectures]
Deformation in Polymers : Elastic deformation, Definitions of stress, strain and their relationship  for
elastic  deformation(5  lectures),  elastic  deformation  in  polymers,(4  lectures)  viscoelasticity,
examples, Mechanical Models(5 lectures) [14 lectures]
Applications  and  other  Topics  in  Polymer  Science  &  Engineering:  Introduction,  examples  and
applications of polymer blends(3 lectures), block-copolymers, elastomers, polymer composites(5
lectures) [8 lectures]
1. Young R.J. and Lovell P.A. (2011) Introduction to Polymers, 3rd Edition, CRC Press
1. Chanda M. (2006) Introduction to Polymer Science & Chemistry, CRC Press
Online Course Material
1. Adhikari B, Science & Technology of Polymers, NPTEL Course Material, Department  of  Metallurgy
Department  Chemical Engineering
Solid Waste Management
Offered for  BTech
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1. Provide background about the solid waste management including types, sources and processes
The students are expected to:
1. Gain holistic understanding of processes and challenges in solid waste management
Introduction: Waste generation and management in a technological society, environmental impact
of  solid  waste,  sources  of  solid  waste,(3  lectures)  functional  elements  of  a  solid  waste
management system, challenges in solid waste management, integrated waste management(3
lectures) [6 lectures]
Collection  and  Processing  of  Solid  Waste:  Collection  of  MSW,  material  separation  and  handling,
recyclable components, (3 lectures) size reduction and separation, thermal processing of waste,
biological processing of waste, chemical processing of waste (3 lectures)[6 lectures]
Landfills  for  Disposal  of  Solid  Waste:  Decomposition  of  solid  waste  in  landfills,  types  of  landfills,
requirements  of  an  engineered  landfill,(4  lectures)  layout  of  a  landfill  site,  landfill  operations,
environmental  monitoring  of  landfills(4  lectures),  leachate  management  -  landfill  liners,
geosynthetic materials(4 lectures) [12 lectures]
Hazardous  Waste  and  Management:  Characteristics,  landfills  for  hazardous  waste,(4  lectures)
autoclaving, microwaving, biomedical waste(4 lectures) [8 lectures]
Recycling  of  Electronic  waste  and  PCBs:  Electronic  waste  management  in  India,  electronic  waste
recycling, Current approach for PCB recycling,(5 lectures) PCB scrap characteristics, technologies
for PCB recycling, toxins in PCB fabrication, lead-free soldering(5 lectures) [10 lectures]
1.  Khan I. H., Ahsan N. (2014) Textbook of Solid Wastes Management, CBS Publishers and
2.  Khandpur R. S. (2010) Printed Circuit Boards: Design, Fabrication, Assembly and Testing, Tata
McGraw Hill Education Private Limited
1.  Tchobanoglous G., Kreith F. (2002) Handbook of Solid Waste Management, 2nd Edition, McGraw
2.  Shalh K. L., (1999) Basics of Solid and Hazardous Waste Management Technology, Prentice
Online Course Material
1.  Ramachandra T. V., Municipal Solid Waste Management, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Environmental Science, IISc Bengaluru, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/120108005/
2.  IITM-EWRE, Solid and Hazardous Waste Management, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Civil Engineering, IIT Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105106056/
Department  Chemical Engineering
Air Pollution Control Technology
Offered for  B.Tech.
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide a broad view of air pollution and how to reduce it.
2.  Provide information about various techniques to control different air pollution.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand and explain the processes causing air pollution.
2.  Anticipate and quantify air pollution and design methods to control it.
Air pollution: Overview, fossil fuel and automobile, nature and classification of pollutants,(4 lectures)
BS-VI  regulation,  techniques  to  measure  and  quantify  air  pollution,  air  quality  management,
Active and future research(5 lectures). [9 lectures]
Industrial  Air  Pollution  Sources  and  Prevention:  Air  Pollution  in  the  Chemical  Process  Industries,
Petroleum  Industry,  Power  plants;(5  lectures)  Aluminum,  Iron  and  Steel  Manufacturing(2
lectures);  Copper,  Lead  and  Zinc  Smelting(2  lectures);  Nickel  Ore  Processing  and  Refining(2
lectures). [11 lectures]
Air pollution controlling techniques: Fabric filtration, cyclones, electrostatic precipitation, wet and dry
scrubbing,  condensation,  thermal  oxidation,  Catalytic  processes,  Activated  carbon,  gas-  phase
biofiltration, emerging technologies. [15 lectures]
Ventilation  and  Indoor  Air  Quality  Control:  Overview,  issues  and  impact;  Diagnose,  manage  and
control,  Ventilation  and  Air  Conditioning,(3  lectures)  volatile  organic  compounds  (VOCs)
household pollutants and control of indoor air quality, Issues related to ambient air clean-up(4
lectures). [7 lectures]
1.  Heck, R. M., Farrauto, R. J., and Gulati, S. T., 2012, Catalytic air pollution control: commercial
technology. John Wiley & Sons.
2.  Licht, W.,1988, Air pollution control engineering: Basic calculations for particulate collection,
Vol. 10, CRC Press.
1.  Wang, L.K., Pereira, N.C., Hung, Y., 2004, Air pollution control engineering, Vol. 1,
Springer science + Business media.
2.  Karl B. Schnelle, Jr., Charles A. Brown, 2002, Air Pollution Control Technology
Handbook, CRC Press LLC.
Online Course Material
Environmental Air Pollution, NPTEL course material, Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute
of Technology Delhi, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105102089/
Processing of rare earth & radioactive
The Instructor will:
1. Provide in depth knowledge about the processes used to purify rare earth and radioactive
materials and their applications.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the mechanism of rare earth and radioactive materials separation processes and
Basic  Concept:  Introduction  and  overview,  definition,  atomic  structures,  processing  and  handling,
history and trade of RE and RA(5 lectures); geological distribution, application of rare earth (RE)
and radioactive (RA) materials(4 lectures). [9 lectures]
Rare  Earth  elements:  Ore  mineral,  classification,  physical  and  chemical  properties(4  lectures),
chromatographic  techniques  for  analysis,  deposit  exploration,  mining,  chemical  treatment,
separation  processes(5  lectures),  bio-sorption,  recycling,  economic  aspects(4  lectures).  (13
Radioactive  materials:  Definition,  physicochemical  properties(3  lectures),  Resource  finding  and
mining,  separation  techniques(5  lectures),  application  in  technology  development,  health  and
environment effects(4lectures). (13 lectures)
Sustainability  and  environment:  Sustainability  of  sources  and  demand(2  lectures),  sustainable
mining, impact on environment, Geo-political considerations(5 lectures). (7 lectures)
1.  Voncken, J.H.L., 2016, The Rare Earth Elements: An Introduction, Springer.
2.  Atwood, D. A., 2012, The Rare Earth Elements: Fundamentals and Applications, Wiley.
3.  Lauf, R.J., 2008, Introduction to Radioactive Minerals, Schiffer Publishing Ltd.
4.  L'Annunziata, M. F., 2016, Radioactivity: Introduction and History, From the Quantum to
Quarks. 2nd edition, Elsevier.
1.    I. B. De Lima, W. L. Filho, 2016, ‘Rare Earths Industry: Technological, Economic, and
Environmental Implications’, Elsevier.
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide information of various energy resources and their role in modern society, with both
national and global perspectives.
2.    Present different technologies to harness energy from different resources, and the
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Describe the energy sources in use today including the extraction and use of these resources.
2.  Address the impacts of the use of different energy sources.
Energy production, environment and economy: Introduction to energy resources and their utilization,
National and global power generation, role of chemical engineers in power generation, (4 lectures)
Concepts of ecosystems and environment, local regional and global implications, role of energy
on economy (3 lectures). [7 lectures]
Different resources and sustainability: Fossil fuel, natural gas, Biofuel (5 lectures), solar power, wind
and tidal energy, geothermal, Nuclear energy, (5 lectures) energy from hydrogen and methanol,
Electrochemical energy (3 lectures), other energy sources, sustainability of different resources (3
lectures). [16 lectures]
Energy  harvesting  and  storage:  Introduction  and  general  concept,  Techniques,  materials  (5
lectures); mechanism for different energy storage (4 lectures), AI and IoT in power generation
and storage (4 lectures), storage demand, utilization (3 lectures). [16 lectures]
Industry 4.0: Prelude to the concept; smart energy production, storage and utilization; Indian Govt.
Policies for green and sustainable energy. [3 lectures]
1.  G. A. Olah, A. Goeppert, G. K. S. Prakash, (2006), Beyond Oil and Gas: The Methanol Economy,
Wiley□VCH, Weinheim, Germany.
2.  Ball M. and Wietschel M., (2009), The Hydrogen Economy Opportunities and Challenges,
Cambridge University Press.
3.  Vertes, A. A., Qureshi, A., Yukawa, H., Blaschek, H.P., (2010), Biomass to Biofuels, Wiley.
4.  R.A. Huggins, Energy Storage, Springer, 2010.
5.  Joao Cruz, Mairead Atcheson (2016). Floating offshore wind energy (1st Ed). Springer.
6.  A.G. Ter-Gazarian, Energy Storage for Power Systems, IET Publications,2nd Edition,  2011
7.  G. N. Tiwari, M K. Ghosal, 2004, Renewable Energy Resources: Basic Principles and
Applications. Narosa Publishing House, New Delhi.
Online Course Material
Mondal P.,Waste to Energy Conversion, NPTEL course material, Department of Chemical Engineering,
IIT Roorkee, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103107125/
Waste Water Treatment
The Instructor will:
1.  Illustrate quantitative and conceptual foundation of conventional wastewater treatment.
2.   Provide information related to the practical configurations, design and operation of conventional
wastewater treatment processes.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand and apply the knowledge to waste water treatment and management.
2.  Advance the operation of waste water treatment plant and maintenance of equipment
Overview of water management: Water demand, supply and wastewater generation, water in operating
units  and  effluent  rejection,  water  quality  parameters  and  standards  (5  lectures);  Waste  water
specifications, epidemiological and toxic aspects, nature of water pollutants, measurement techniques
of water pollution, on-line analyzers, screening and primary Treatment (5 lectures). [10 lectures]
Water treatment processes: General theory, primary water treatment systems such as primary settlers,
sedimentation,  Coagulation  and  flocculation(5lectures),  filtration,  disinfection,  physicochemical
treatment,  process  water  stripping(5  lectures),  insoluble  hydrocarbons  and  sludge;  biological
treatment  of  waste  water  (aerobic,  anaerobic,  biofiltration,  activated  sludge  basins)(5  lectures),
biological sludge treatment, aerobic, adsorption kinetics in water treatment design of water treatment
plants(5 lectures). [20 lectures]
Tertiary wastewater treatment systems: Root zone technology, Ion exchange, ultraviolet (UV) treatment,
removal  of  N,  P,  K  and  other  trace  elements,  (5  lectures)  sludge  treatment  and  disposal,  low  cost
water  treatment  systems,  design  of  conventional  wastewater  treatment  plants  (5  lectures).  [10
Disposal  of  treated  wastewater:  Inland  surface  water,  land  for  irrigation,  marine  coastal  areas.  [2
1.   Peavy, H.S., Rowe, D. R., and Tchobanoglous, G., 2013, Environmental Engineering. McGraw-Hill,
2.  Riffat, R., 2013, Fundamentals of Wastewater Treatment and Engineering, CRC
3.  Spellman, F.R., 2003, Handbook of Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant Operations, CRC press.
Online Course Material
Tiwari M K, Wastewater treatment and recycling, NPTEL course material, Department of Civil Engineering,
IIT Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105105178/
The Instructor will provide basic knowledge about molecular transport phenomena.
The students are expected to gain knowledge about molecular transport phenomena.
Theory of transport phenomena from a molecular view point. [5 lectures]
Classical concept from statistical mechanics and derivation of Boltzmann equation. [6 lectures]
Transport theory and properties of dilute gases. [6 lectures]
Development of transport theories and properties from Boltzmann equation. [6 lectures]
Introduction to time correlation functions. [5 lectures]
1.  Deen W. M., 1998, Analysis of Transport Phenomena, Oxford University Press, New York.
2.  Bird. R. B., Stewart, W. E. and Lightfoot, E. N., 2006, Transport Phenomena, 2nd edition, John
Wiley & Sons.
1.  Slattery J.C., 1999, Advanced Transport Phenomena, Cambridge University Press.
2.  Leal L. G., 2010. Advanced Transport Phenomena: Fluid mechanics and convective transport
processes, Cambridge University Press.
3.  Ramachandran, P. A. 2014. "Advanced Transport Phenomena", Cambridge University Press.
Online Learning Materials
1.  R. Nagarajan, Advanced Transport Phenomena, NPTEL Course Material, Chemical Engineering,
IIT Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103106068/#
2.  V. Kumaran, Fundamentals of Transport Processes, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Chemical Engineering, IIsc Bangalore, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/108/103108099/
Fluid-Like Structures and Self-Assembling
Department  Chemical Engineering
B.Tech, Dual Degree
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background on basic concepts of Micelles, Bilayers and Biological Membranes.
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain fundamental understanding of intermolecular forces present in Self-Assembly and
2.  Learn about the importance of intermolecular forces in molecular modeling of Micelles,
Bilayers and Biological Membranes
Thermodynamic  Principles  of  Self-Assembly:  Introduction,  Fundamental  thermodynamics  (2
Lectures), Conditions for formation of aggregates, Critical micelle concentration (2 Lectures),
Infinite aggregates versus finite aggregates,  Size  distribution of self-assembled structures (3
Lectures), More complex amphiphilic structures, Effect of interactions between aggregates (3
Lectures). [10 Lectures]
Aggregation  of  Amphiphilic  Molecules:  Introduction,  Optimal  head  group  area,  Geometric
Packing Considerations (2 Lectures), Spherical Micelles, Non-spherical and Cylindrical Micelle,
Bilayers  and  Vesicles  (3  Lectures),  Factors  affecting  the  changes,  Curvature  elasticity  (2
Lectures),  Biological  Membranes,  Membrane  Lipids,  Membrane  Protein  and  Structure  (3
Lectures). [10 Lectures]
Interaction  Between  Lipid  Bilayer  and  Biological  Membrane:  Introduction,  Attractive  van  der
Waals  Forces,  Electrostatic  Forces  (1  Lecture),  Hydration  Forces,  Hydration  Model  and  its
Limitation (2 Lectures), Steric Forces, Hydrophobic Forces, Specific Interactions (2 Lectures),
Interdependence  of  inter-  and  intra-membrane  forces  (2  Lectures),  Adhesion,  Fusion  (1
Lecture). [8 Lectures]
1.  J. N. Israelachvili, 2003, Intermolecular and Surface Forces, 2nd Edition, Academic
Organic Molecules, Complexes and Polymers for
Electronics and Optoelectronics
Department  Chemical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0
Offered for  BTech
Prerequisite  Polymer as material fractal
The Instructor will:
1. Provide introductory knowledge about molecules, complexes and polymers that are relevant
to electronics and optoelectronics
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain basic knowledge about organic materials for electronics and optoelectronics
2.  build a foundation to pursue specialization in the area of molecular engineering and organics
for electronics and optoelectronics
Fractal 1[14 lectures]:
Prelude:  Concept  of  electronic  polymers,  synthetic  electronic  polymers  and  their  chemistry,
structure-property of polymers (4 lectures), nano-electronic polymers, electronic polymer based-
based  compounds,  electronic  small  molecules,  electronic  nanocomposites  (5  lectures),  electrical
conductivity of electronic polymers and charge transport/ transfer (5 lectures)
Fractal 2 [14 lectures]:
Introduction  to  optoelectronic  polymers:  overview,  optical  polymers,  optical  electroactive
polymers, organic photovoltaic  polymers (5  lectures),  properties  of  optical polymers, organic
optoelectronic  systems, emitters,  organic  photonics (5  lectures), optical amplifiers,  detectors
and receivers, electro-optic modulators (4 lectures)
Fractal 3 [14 lectures]:
Small  Molecules  and  Complexes  for  Electronic  Systems:  overview,  small  molecules  based  on
polycyclic aromatics, solution processable, small molecule dyes, donor-pi-acceptor structure (4
lectures), organic electronic complexes, polymer metal complexes, liquid crystalline elastomers
(4 lectures), electro-viscoelastic polymers, electromagnetic shielding polymers (6 lectures)
1. Sulaiman,K., (2020), Polymers in Organic Electronics – Polymer Selection for Electronic,
Mechatronic & Optoelectronic Systems, 1st Edition, ChemTec Publishing
The Instructor will provide basic knowledge about concepts, microstates of a system, statistical
thermodynamics and classical statistical mechanics.
The students are expected to gain fair knowledge of basic concepts of molecular thermodynamics,
microstates of a system, statistical thermodynamics and classical statistical mechanics.
Review of classical thermodynamics, basic concepts, thermodynamic potential. [4 lectures]
Microstates of a system. [9 lectures]
Fundamentals of statistical mechanics, postulates of statistical thermodynamics, statistical
ensembles, canonical ensemble. [7 lectures]
Ideal gas, Monoatomic and polyatomic ideal gases, statistical thermodynamics of ideal gases,
statistical thermodynamics of diatomic ideal gases. [10 lectures]
Chemical reaction equilibrium, molar heat capacities, specific heat of solids, rate of chemical
reaction. [2 lectures]
Application of molecular thermodynamics. [4 lectures]
Introduction to classical statistical mechanics. [6 lectures]
Hanson, R.M., Green Susan (2008) Introduction to Molecular Thermodynamics, University Science
Online Learning Materials
Srabani Taraphder, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/104/105/104105088/
Department  Chemical Engineering
Offered for  BTech
The  Instructor  will  provide  basic  knowledge  about  chemical  engineering  aspects  of  biology  and
biotechnology, kinetics of enzyme catalysis, mass transfer, bioreactors, bio-separation and manufacture
of biochemical products.
The  students  are  expected  to  gain  understanding  of  chemical  engineering  aspects  of  biology  and
biotechnology, kinetics of enzyme catalysis, mass transfer, bioreactors, bio-separation and manufacture
of biochemical products.
Overview of biotechnology [2 Lectures], diversity in microbial cells, cell
Basics o f    Biology:
constituents, chemicals for life. [5 Lectures]
Kinetics of enzyme catalysis. [5 Lectures]
Immobilized enzymes: Effects of intra and inter-phase mass transfer on enzyme kinetics. [5 Lectures]
Major metabolic pathways: Bioenergetics, glucose metabolism, biosynthesis. [5 Lectures]
Microbial growth: Continuum and stochastic models. [3 Lectures]
Design, analysis and stability of bioreactors. [4 Lectures]
Kinetics of receptor-ligand binding. [3 Lectures]
Receptor-mediated endocytosis. [3 Lectures]
Multiple interacting microbial population: prey-predator models. [2 Lectures]
Bio-product recovery & bio-separations; manufacture of biochemical products. [5 Lectures]
1.  Bailey, J.E. and Ollis, D. F. [1986] Biochemical Engineering Fundamentals, McGraw Hill Book
2.  Blanch, H.W. and Clark, D.S. [1997] Biochemical Engineering, Marcel Dekker Inc.
1.   Shuler, M.L. and Kargi, F. [2003] Bioprocess Engineering (Basic Concepts), Prentice Hall of
Online Course Material
1.  Ritu  Banerjee  and
saikat  Chakraborty,  Biochemical  Engineering,
Department  Chemical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0
Offered for  BTech
The  Instructor  will  provide  basic  knowledge  about  bioprocess  technology,  industrial  importance  of
microorganisms,  fermentation,  industrial  production  of  alcohol,  glycerol,  acetone,  butanol  and
microbial production of organic acids like citric acid, vinegar etc.
The  students  are  expected  to  gain  knowledge  about  industrial  importance  of  microorganisms,
fermentation, industrial production of alcohol, glycerol, acetone, butanol and microbial production of
organic acids like citric acid, vinegar etc.
Industrial importance of microorganisms. [5 lectures]
Substrates for fermentation – major elements, minor elements, vitamins, hormones, trace
elements and growth factors. [7 lectures]
Alcoholic fermentation – distilled alcohol, wine and beer. [6 lectures]
Baker’s yeast production. [2 lectures]
Production of glycerol, acetone and butanol. [6 lectures]
Microbial production of organic acids – citric acid, gluconic acid, itaconic acid, gibberellic acid, lactic
acid and vinegar. [8 lectures]
Production of industrial enzymes – amylases, proteases, invertases, pectinases, cellulases;
mushroom production. [8 lectures]
1.  Shuler, M.L. and Kargi, F. [2003] Bioprocess Engineering: Basic Concepts, Prentice Hall of
2.  Mansi El-Mansi and C. F. A. Bryce, C.F.A., Fermentation Microbiology and Biotechnology
1.  Stanbury, P.F., Whitaker, A., Hall, S. Principles of Fermentation Technology
2.  Friberg, Stig, Handbook of Food and Beverage Fermentation Technology (Food Science and
Online Course Material
Patel, N.K., https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/106/103106109/
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide knowledge about momentum, heat and mass transfer in bio-systems and their analogous
2.   Train the student to create bio-engineering knowledge using the transport phenomena approach
with special focus on combined transport problems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Identify and analyze the properties and mechanisms of momentum, energy and mass transport.
2.  Analyze, design and solve problems combining these transport phenomena in bio-engineering.
Transport processes across cell membrane: Transport mechanisms, transport by diffusion, filtration and
osmosis, facilitated diffusion, vesicular transport, bulk transport, co-transport, membrane transport,
transport of virus in cells. [8 lectures]
Intracellular Transport: Molecular mechanism of intracellular transport, membrane structure, transport
of proteins, forms of endocytosis and intracellular transport, factors affecting intracellular transport.
Models for blood flow: Non-newtonian fluid model, steady flow in tubes, pulsatile flow in a rigid tube,
pulsatile  flow  in  an  elastic  tube,  blood  flow  dynamics  in  arteries  and  veins,  heart-valve
hemodynamics. [7 lectures]
Air flow in the lungs: Mechanics of breathing, gas exchange and transport. [3 lectures]
Application of the principle of bio-transport phenomenon in medical device development. [2 lectures]
1.  Truskey, G.A., Yuan, F., Katz, D.F., (2009) Transport Phenomena in Biological Systems, 2nd ed,
Prentice Hall, New Jersey.
2.  Bird, R.B., Stewart, W.E. and Lightfoot, E.N., (2006), Transport Phenomena, 2nd ed., Wiley
1.  Welty, C. E., Wicks, R. E., Wilson, G. L. Rorrer,(2007), Fundamentals of Momentum, Heat, and
Mass Transfer. 5th ed., Wiley India Pvt. Ltd.
2.  Geankoplis C.J., 2004, Transport Processes and Separation Process Principles, 4th Ed., Prentice-Hall
2.  Brodkey, R.S., Hershey H.C., 2003, Basic concepts in transport phenomena, a unified approach.
Vol 1, Brodkey Publishing.
3.  Thompson, W.J.,(2000) Introduction to Transport Phenomena, Prentice Hall, 2000.
Online Course Material
‘Transport Phenomena’ by Prof. S.K. Gupta, NPTEL: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/102/103102024/
Biochemical Separation Processes
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide knowledge in biochemical separation.
2.  Train the student in separation processes in biochemical engineering.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand different aspects of biochemical separation.
2.  Analyze the different aspects of separation processes in the field of biochemical engineering.
Introduction: Role of separation process in biochemical industry. [2 lectures]
Design variables and parameters: feed, product, operating conditions, density, viscosity, diffusion
coefficients, mass transfer data. [4 lectures]
Different processes and methods viz. vacuum distillation, adsorption, extraction, membrane processes
etc. [8 lectures]
Process design [8 lectures]
Performance evaluation [4 lectures]
Case studies [2 lectures]
1.  Bajpai, P., Bajpai, P.K., Dochain, D. and Dutta, N.N. Biotreatment, Downstream Processing and
Modelling (Advances in Biochemical Engineering / Biotechnology)
2.  Blanch, H.W. and Clark, D.S. [1997] Biochemical Engineering, Marcel Dekker Inc.
1.  Atkinson, B. and Mavituna, F. Biochemical Engineering and Biotechnology Handbook
2.  Bailey, J.E. and Ollis, D. F. [1986] Biochemical Engineering Fundamentals, McGraw Hill Book
Online Course Material
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide knowledge about reactor design for biochemical engineering systems and scaleup.
2.  Train the student in bioreactor configurations, design and analysis.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Design the reactors for the biochemical engineering systems.
2.  Analyze the bioreactors.
Introduction: Bioprocess overview, Common types of  bioreactors, sterilization, thermal sterilization.
Thermodynamics and rate concept of biochemical engineering systems, enzyme bioreactors, enzyme
kinetics. measurement principles and methods. [5 lectures]
Bioreactor configuration: batch reactor, continuous stirred-tank reactor (CSTR), tubular reactor, plug
flow  reactor,  [5  lectures]  packed  bed  reactor,  solid  state  bioreactors,  photobioreactor,  air  lift,
fluidized bed reactor, membrane bioreactor. [5 lectures]
Kinetic expression: Monod’s equation and its generalization. [3 lectures]
Bioreactor  design:  Basic  calculation;  Bioreactor  design  and  optimum  operations–  mixing
characteristics;  [6  lectures]  residence  time  distribution  in  bioreactors  and  non-ideality,
concentration distribution and temperature distribution. [6 lectures]
Analysis  of  multiple  interacting  microbial  populations:  Biological  system  parameters;  processes
involving microbial flocs; bioreactors containing microbial films. [3 lectures]
Basic concept of scale-up of bioreactors and case studies. [4 lectures]
1.  Bailey, J.E. and Ollis, D. F. [1986] Biochemical Engineering Fundamentals, McGraw Hill Book
2.  Blanch, H.W. and Clark, D.S. [1997] Biochemical Engineering, Marcel Dekker Inc.
1.  Atkinson, B. and Mavituna, F. Biochemical Engineering and Biotechnology Handbook
2.  Aiba, S., Humphrey, A.E. and Millos, N.F. Biochemical Engineering
3.  Asenjo, J.A. Bioreactor System Design (Biotechnology and Bioprocessing Series)
Online Course Material
Suraishkumar, IIT Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/106/102106053/
Introduction to Internet of Things (IoT)
M. Tech. 1st
The Instructor will:
1. Provide overview of applications of IoT and relevant technologies
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify and integrate different components required for IoT applications
Introduction to IoT: Sensing, Actuation, Basics of IoT Networking (2 Lectures) IoT
Architecture, Communication Protocols for IoT (2 Lectures)
Sensor Networks: Wireless Sensor Network, Sensor nodes (2 Lectures)
Machine to machine Communication: Introduction, Node types and M2M Applications, Integration of
Sensors and Actuators for Implementation of IoT (4 Lectures)
Introduction to Cloud, Fog, and Edge Computing, Smart cities and Smart homes, Industrial IoT (4
1. Kamal, R., (2017), Internet of Things - Architecture and Design Principles, 1st Edition, Mcgraw Hill.
Preparatory Course Material
1. Misra, S., Introduction to Internet of Things, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Computer Science
and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105166/
Sensors and IoT Lab
M. Tech. 1
1.  To introduce students with sensors fabrication
2.  To familiarize students with measurement instruments like Spectrum and Vector Network
3.  To introduce students with various kits and components required for IoT applications
1.  Familiarization with sensor fabrication process and characterization
2.  Handling high frequency measurement instruments
3.  Implementation of various circuits required to build a transceiver
The lab course will be dependent on the various core and elective components of the program. There
will  be  a  scope  for  modifying  the  contents  depending  on  the  recent  developments  in  technology.
Experiments from some of the following topics will be part of this lab.
Implementation of Signal Conditioning Circuits
Implementation of IoT components using Hardware/Software
•  Sensor interfacing using off-the-shelf components
•  Sensor Design, Fabrication and Characterization (Part of this in winter internship)
•  RF components characterization; Antennas and RF amplifiers
•  Selected experiments from Communication Systems
•  Recent topics of interest
Implementation of real time examples of IoT using Embedded Systems
The Instructor will:
1. provide brief understanding about Industry 4.0 concepts in manufacturing systems
The students are expected to appreciate:
1.  current trends at system level in manufacturing organizations
2.  the importance of industry 4.0 concepts at manufacturing systems
Introduction to Manufacturing systems (2 Lecture)
Automated Manufacturing Systems: Concept of Group Technology and cellular manufacturing,
Flexible Manufacturing Systems, Lean Manufacturing, Agile Manufacturing (6 Lectures)
Industry  4.0  for  Manufacturing  Systems:  Agent  Based  Manufacturing,  Cloud  Based
Manufacturing (6 Lectures)
1.  Talavage J., and Hanman R. G, Flexible Manufacturing Systems in Practice, Taylor and
2.  Gunasekaran A., Agile Manufacturing: 21
Century Competitive Strategy, Elsevier
3.  Wang L., and Vincent W. X., Cloud Based Cyber-Physical Systems in Manufacturing, Springer
Department  Chemical Engineering,
Offered for  B.Tech., M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D.
Prerequisite  basics of chemical engineering
The instructor will:
Impart knowledge of modern methods of analyzing chemical data.
The students are expected to have the:
Comprehensive knowledge of the modern methods of reducing and analyzing chemical data.
Prelude to chemometrics: Introduction and history of Chemometrics, factorial analysis; reverse, surface and
mixture design; correlograms and time series analysis; sequential methods, Pattern recognition. [6 lectures]
Calibration: introduction to multivariable calibration, selectivity problems, statistical problems in calibration,
Univariate  calibration,  multiple  linear  and  principal  components  regression,  model  validation,  outlier
detection. [6 lectures]
Evolutionary  signals  and  process  analysis  in  chemical  plants:  exploratory  data  analysis  and  processing,
determining composition, resolution pre-processing, composition of sequential data, screening. [6  lectures]
Derivatives  in  Spectroscopy:  Theoretical  and  computed  derivatives,  derivative  approximation,  calibrating
with  derivatives,  spectroscopic  monitoring  of  reactions,  kinetics  and  multivariable  model,  online
spectroscopy. [6 lecture]
General Data Analysis:  simple analysis of  variance and experimental design (one-way, two-way with and
without replicates, randomized and blocked designs). [6 lectures]
Computational  methods:  control  structures  for  selection  and  iteration,  functions,  array  data  structure,
numerical methods for data analysis. [6 lectures]
Machine  learning  in  Chemical  plants:  Introduction,  basics  of  decision  trees,  combining  multiple  learner,
reinforcement learning, experimental design and analysis. [6 lectures]
1.  Richard G. Brereton, 2003, Chemometrics: Data Analysis for the Laboratory and Chemical Plant,
2.  Howard Mark, Jerry Workman, Jr, 2018, Chemometrics in Spectroscopy, Elsevier Academic Press.
3.  Ethem Alpaydin, 2004, Introduction to Machine Learning, MIT Press.
1.  Vandeginste, B.G.M., Massart, D.L., Buydens, L.M.C., Jong, de D., Lewi, P.J., Smeyers-Verbeke, J.,
1998, Handbook of Chemometrics and Qualimetrics: Part B, Elsevier.
2.  Kreyszig, Erwin, 2014, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, John Wiley and Sons, 10th Edition.
3.  Harald Martens, Tormod Næs, 1989, Multivariate Calibration, John Wiley & Sons.
4.  Richard G. Brereton, 2007, Applied Chemometrics for Scientists, John Wiley & Sons.
Artificial Intelligence in Chemical Reactor
B.Tech, M.Tech., M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree
Material and Energy Balance, Chemical Reaction
Engineering, Scientific Computations
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background on AI in chemical reactor design
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain fundamental understanding of the application of AI in chemical reactor design.
2.  Learn to develop AI model equations, approaches for chemical reactors.
3.  Learn to write basic codes of AI control for chemical reactors.
Reactor Models: Review of Mixing Problem, Batch Reactors (1 Lecture), CSTR, PFR, Bioreactor (1
Lecture), Non-isothermal reactors (1 Lecture), Fluidised bed and Packed bed reactors (1 Lecture),
Slurry Reactor, Cholette’s Model (1 Lecture), Non-Ideal Reactors (1 Lecture). [6 Lectures]
Basic  Concepts  of  Filters:  Bayesian  Estimators,  Luenberger  Observer  (4  Lectures),  Kalman
Observer, Extended Kalman Filter (4 Lectures), Unscented Kalman Filter, Particle Filter, Moving
Horizon  Estimation  (5  Lectures),  Multi-rate  Estimations  (3  Lectures),  Multi-rate  Observer  (4
Lectures). [20 Lectures]
Case Studies: Qualitative Modelling of Chemical Reaction Systems (3 Lectures), Exothermic Batch
Chemical  Reactor  Automation  via  Expert  System  (3  Lectures),  State  Estimation  in  a    Batch
Suspension Polymerization Reactor (3 Lectures), Dynamic Real-Time Optimization of Transitions
in  Industrial  Polymerization  Processes  using  Solution  Models  (2  Lectures),  On-Line  Nonlinear
Model-Based Estimation and Control of a Polymer Reactor (2 Lectures), Recursive Estimation in
Constrained Nonlinear Dynamical Systems (3 Lectures). [16 Lectures]
1.  Simulation of CSTR
2.  Simulation of PFR
3.  Simulation of PBR
4.  Simulation of Nonisothermal Reactors
5.  Simulation of Slurry Reactor
6.  Simulation of Bioreactor
7.  Simulating Cholette’s Model
8.  Luenberger Observer
9.  Kalman Filter
10. Extended Kalman Filter
11. Control of Isothermal & Non-isothermal Batch Reactors
12. Control of Polymer Reactor
1.  Fogler, H. S., (1992), Elements of Chemical Reaction Engineering, Prentice-Hall
2.  Michael L. Mavrovouniotis, 1990, Artificial Intelligence in Process Engineering, Academic
1.  Mohammad  Shahrokhi  and  Mohammad  Ali  Fanaei,  2001,  State  Estimation  in  a  Batch
Suspension Polymerization Reactor, Iranian Polymer Journal, Vol. 10, Number 3
2.  J.V. Kadam, B. Srinivasan, W. Marquardt, D. Bonvin, Dynamic Real-Time Optimization of
Transitions in Industrial Polymerization Processes using Solution Models
3.  Rajendra K. Mutha, William R. Cluett, Alexander Penlidis, 1997, On-Line Nonlinear Model-
Based Estimation and Control of a Polymer Reactor, AIChE Journal, Vol. 43, Number 11
Pramod  Vachhani,  Raghunathan  Rengaswamy,  Vikrant  Gangwal,  2005,  Recursive
Estimation in Constrained Nonlinear Dynamical Systems, AIChE Journal, Vol. 51, Number
B. Tech, M. Tech and PhD
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide understanding about the importance of nanoscale materials for sensing applications.
2.  Teach approaches for fabrication and characterizing of sensors based on nanomaterials.
3. Enhance critical, creative and innovative thinking to tailor nanomaterials for specific application.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design and fabricate nanomaterial based sensors.
2.  Undertake interdisciplinary research and exploit nanomaterials for new sensing applications.
Sensor types: Displacement, position and proximity sensors (3 lectures); velocity, motion, force and
pressure sensors (4 lectures); components and classification of sensors (1 lecture); parameters for
sensor characterization (1 lecture); sensor arrays (1 lecture).
Nanostructures and Nanoparticles: Nanostructures (1  lectures); nanostructure  fabrication (top  down
and bottom up approach) (3 lectures); characterization of nanostructures using different techniques
(Atomic  Force  Microscopy,  Scanning  Electron  Microscopy,  Tunneling  Electron  Microscopy)  (3
lectures);  nanoparticles  (types  and  shapes)  (1  lecture);  nanoparticle  production,  shape  control,
functionalization  and  application  (2  lectures);  nanowires  (properties,  sensing  mechanism,
fabrication, and devices) (4 lectures); quantum dots (1 lecture).
Carbon nanotubes/nanofibres (CNT/CNF) and other Nanosensors: CNT structure, properties, synthesis,
functionalization  (3  lectures);  CNT/CNF  based  sensors  (single  layer/multi-layer)  (2  lectures);
nanostructure,  nanoparticles,  nanowire  and  nanofibre  based  metal  oxide  sensors  (3  lectures);
flexible sensors and electronic skin (2 lectures); Nanosensors in engineering applications: optical,
chemical,  mechanical,  electrochemical,  mass  sensitive,  biosensors,  mechanical  sensors  in  liquid
solution, thin film sensors (7 lectures).
1.  Khanna, V. K., (2011), Nanosensors: Physical, Chemical, and Biological, CRC Press.
2.  Atta, N. F., (2014), Nanosensors: Materials and Technologies. IFSA Publishing.
3.  Meyyappan, M., (2004), Carbon Nanotubes: Science and Applications, 1
Edition, CRC Press.
Self Learning Material
Data Analytics in Process Modelling and
M.Tech.,  M.Tech-Ph.D.  Dual  Degree
The Instructor will:
1.  Impart knowledge about the mathematical modelling of physical systems, data analytics and
introduce flow-sheet simulation as a tool for process analysis, enabling systems approach in
modelling of a process with interaction among several unit processes and unit operations.
2.  Provide insight into development of simulators to do steady-state and dynamic simulation.
The students are expected to:
1. Gain in-depth knowledge of the data analytics and mathematical modelling of physical systems
and process with interaction among several unit operations and have insight into development
of simulators to do steady-state and dynamic simulation.
Introduction to mathematical modelling: lumped vs distributed parameter systems, process
synthesis, design, simulation & analysis, Modelling of various chemical systems covering
heat, mass, momentum transfer, and reactions, Sequential and simultaneous modular
approaches for flow-sheet Simulation (9 lectures).
Equation solving approaches: Partitioning, Decomposition, Disjointing, PTM, SWS-, Steward-, and
Rudd-Algorithms, Direct Methods, Pivoting, Iterative methods, BTF, BBTF, Block Back
Substitution, BTS. (4 lectures)
Decomposition of networks: Tearing algorithms, digraph, MCN, signal flow graph, B&M
algorithm, BTA, K&S algorithm, M&H-1 & -2 algorithms, and related problems, Convergence
Promotion. (6 lectures)
Data  analysis:  Sources  and  data  banks  of  physical  &  thermodynamic  properties,  Modularity &
Routing, Specific purpose simulation, Dynamic simulation (9 lectures)
Process Modelling and Simulation Design Lab (28 hrs)
Modelling of Heat exchange equipment (2)
Modular approaches for flow-sheet Simulation (4)
Process simulation using MATLAB (6)
Process simulation using ASPEN (6)
Distillation with reflux, reboiler and condenser (6)
Case studies: Process simulation of industrial scale processes and validation (4)
1. Jana, A.K. Chemical Process Modelling & Computer Simulation, 2nd ed., PHI Learning, 2011
1.  Babu, B.V. Process Plant Simulation, Oxford University Press, India, 2004.
2.  Luyben, W.L. Process Modelling, Simulation & Control for Chemical Engineers, 2nd ed.,
McGraw Hill, 1990
Online Course Material
1.  Agrawal,  V.K.,  Process  Modelling  and  Simulation,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department of
Chemical Engineering, IIT Roorkee https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/107/103107096/
Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech. 1st year, Ph.D. 1st
The Instructor will:
1. Cover various paradigms that come under the broad umbrella of AI, with some of them being
covered in depth
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Develop an understanding of where and how AI can be used
Introduction (1 lecture)
Propositional logic (8 lectures)
Search: Uninformed strategies (BFS, DFS, Dijkstra), Informed strategies (A* search, heuristic
functions, hill-climbing), Adversarial search (Minimax algorithm, Alpha-beta pruning) (10 lectures)
Predicate logic: Knowledge representation, Resolution (6 lectures)
Rule-based systems: Natural language parsing, Context free grammar (3 lectures) Constraint
satisfaction problems (4 lectures)
Planning:  State  space  search,  Planning  Graphs,  Partial  order  planning  (4  lectures)  Uncertain
Reasoning:  Probabilistic  reasoning,  Bayesian  Networks,  Dempster-Shafer  theory,  Fuzzy  logic  (6
1. Russel,S., and Norvig,P., (2015), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, 3rd Edition, Prentice Hall
1. Research literature
Self Learning Material
1.  Department of Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley,
2.  NPTEL: Artificial Intelligence, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105077/
Computer Science and Engineering
Year, Ph.D. 1
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide motivation and understanding of the need and importance of Machine Learning in today’s
2.  Provide details about various algorithms in Machine Learning
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Develop a sense of Machine Learning in the modern context, and independently work on
problems relating to Machine Learning
2.  Design and program efficient algorithms related to Machine Learning, train models,
conduct experiments, and deliver ML-based applications
(fractal 1) Introduction: Motivation, Different types of learning, Linear regression, Logistic regression (2
Gradient D e s c e n t :
Subgradients,  Stochastic Gradient Descent for risk minimization (2 lectures)
Support Vector Machines: Hard SVM, Soft SVM, Optimality conditions, Duality, Kernel trick, Implementing
Soft SVM with Kernels (4 lectures)
Decision Trees: Decision Tree algorithms, Random forests (2 lectures) Nearest
Neighbour: k-nearest neighbour, Curse of dimensionality (1 lecture)
Neural Networks: Feedforward neural networks, Expressive power of neural networks, SGD and
Backpropagation (3 lectures)
(fractal 2) Clustering: Linkage-based clustering algorithms, k-means algorithm, Spectral clustering (2
Dimensionality reduction: Principal Component Analysis, Random projections, Compressed sensing (2
Generative  Models:  Maximum  likelihood  estimator,  Naive  Bayes,  Linear  Discriminant  Analysis,  Latent
variables and Expectation-maximization algorithm, Bayesian learning (4 lectures) Feature Selection and
Generation: Feature selection, Feature transformations, Feature learning (3 lectures)
Model  selection  and  validation:  Validation  for  model  selection,  k-fold  cross-validation,  Training-
Validation-Testing split, Regularized loss minimization (3 lectures)
(fractal 3) Statistical Learning Framework: PAC learning, Agnostic PAC learning, Bias-complexity tradeoff,
No free lunch theorem, VC dimension, Structural risk minimization, Adaboost (7 lectures) Foundations of
Deep Learning: DNN, CNN, RNN, Autoencoders (7 lectures)
1. Shalev-Shwartz,S., Ben-David,S., (2014), Understanding Machine Learning: From Theory to
Algorithms, Cambridge University Press
1. Mitchell Tom (1997). Machine Learning, Tata McGraw-Hill
Self Learning Material
1.  Department  of  Computer  Science,  Stanford  University,
The Instructor will:
Ocean  Thermal  Energy  Conversion  (OTEC)
B. Tech./ M.Tech./M.Tech.-Ph.D./ Ph.D.
1. Provide understanding of Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC) cycles, hybrid OTEC
systems and technological challenges.
The students are expected to have the:
1.  Proper knowledge about Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC) cycles and hybrid OTEC
2.  Ability to understand OTEC design challenges.
Ocean as a Heat Engine: Concepts of ocean thermal energy, Favorable temperature difference,
OTEC history. (2 lectures)
OTEC Cycles: Closed OTEC cycles, Open OTEC cycle, Flow diagrams, Comparison of OTEC Cycles,
Products of OTEC: electricity, desalinated water, cold water for air-conditioning etc., Hybrid OTEC
systems. (6 lectures)
OTEC System Design: System components, Heat exchangers, evaporators, Pumps, Turbines, Piping,
Platform concepts, Dual Purpose OTEC Plants, Challenges, Case studies. (6 lectures)
1. Takahashi, Patrick and Trenka, Andrew, (1996) Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion, Ist ed.,
1. Lockerby,R.W., (1981) Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC), US Department of Energy,
Microfluidic Fuel Cells
B. TECH, MTECH, MTECH-PhD
The Instructor will:
1. Provide in-depth knowledge about the fundamentals of microfluidics devices as fuel cells.
The students are expected to have:
1. Detailed understanding of Microfluidic fuel cells.
Microfluidic cells: Introduction, concept, classification, and challenges, categories, Thermodynamic and
kinetic of microfluidic fuel cells, electrochemical principles and transport. [7 lectures]
Designs: Microfabrication techniques, 2D, 3D electrodes in microfluidic fuel cells, performance
evolution. [3 lectures]
Microfluidics devices: co-laminar streaming, fuel cells with biocatalysts, gas diffusion electrodes,
microfluidics redox batteries, cell arrays and Stacks. [4 lectures]
1. Erik Kjeang, 2014, Microfluidic Fuel Cells and Batteries, Springer.
Research Articles from different journals.
Catalysis for Energy
The Instructor will:
1.  To give a overview about defining a roadmap for the role of catalysis in energy production
2.  Relate catalysis with fuel cells, hydrogen production and storage, methane storage and industrial
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the role and the possibilities of catalysis in the production of new energy carriers and in
the utilization of different energy sources.
2.  to  go  beyond  conventional  application
identifying  new  developments  that  may  lead  to
breakthroughs in the production of alternative energy.
Catalysis:  Introduction  to  heterogeneous  catalysis,  including  models  of  surface  reactivity,  surface
equilibria,  kinetics  of  surface  reactions,  electronic  and  geometrical  effects  in  heterogeneous  catalysis.
Catalytic  reactions  and  application:  Trends  in  reactivity,  catalyst  structure  and  composition,  electro-
catalysis and photo-catalysis. (Lectures 12)
Selected applications and challenges in energy transformations: fuel cells, hydrogen production, OER and
HER reactions, CO2 oxidation, methane and hydrogen storage and industrial catalysis. (Lecture 14)
1. Hanefeld, U, Lefferts, L. (2018) Catalysis: An Integrated Textbook for Students, 1st Edition, Wiley
1.  Okada, Tatsuhiro, Kaneko, Masao, (2009), Molecular Catalysts for Energy Conversion Springer.
2.  Guczi, László, Erdôhelyi, András, Catalysis for Alternative Energy Generation, Springer.
3.  Pierluigi Barbaro, Claudio Bianchini, Catalysis for Sustainable Energy Production, Wiley
1.   Xile Hu, Angamuthu, R and Bera, J. K., Catalysis for Energy Storage, GIAN Course material, Indian
Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LvTfsIAI-VE
The instructor will:
Advanced Waste Water
B.Tech., M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D.
1.  Impart comprehensive knowledge of industrial and municipal wastewater.
2.  Discuss mechanism and methodologies for wastewater treatment.
3.  Discuss case studies
The students are expected to have the:
1.  Comprehensive knowledge of wastewater treatment.
2.  Knowledge of advanced methodologies such as waste water management, recycle and reuse.
Introduction: Waste water engineering: an overview, characterization of waste water and monitoring
of  industrial  and  municipal  waste  water,  environmental  impacts  of  waste  water  constituents.  (4
Conventional  Waste  Water  Treatment:  Existing  unit  operations  and  processes,  basic  philosophy  of
water  treatment  plants  (4  lectures);  physio-chemical  treatment  methods:  (i)  Screening,  (ii)
conventional  filtration  (iii)  coagulation,  (iv)  flocculation,  (v)  floatation  (vi)  Clari-flocculation  (vii)
sedimentation, (viii) sand filtration, etc. (6 lectures). [10 lectures]
Aerobic and Anaerobic Suspended and Attached Growth Waste Water Treatment Processes: Aerated
lagoon, activated sludge systems, trickling filter, (4 lectures) sequential batch reactor, fluidized bed
bioreactors, Up-flow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) and hybrid Up-flow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket
(UASB) reactors, bio-towers (4 lectures). [8 lectures]
Advanced  Treatment Processes: Membrane  Filtration, reverse osmosis, ultrafiltration,  nanofiltration
and electrodialysis(3 lectures); wet air oxidation, adsorption and ion-exchange(2 lectures); Wet- land
and root-zone treatment of industrial and municipal wastes; Design of sludge drying beds, thermal
and  biological  processes  for  sludge  and  land  fillings(5  lectures).  Membrane  Reactors,  New
Technologies for Waste Water Disinfection (2 lectures). [12 lectures]
Water  Recycling  and  Reuse:  Different  unit  operations  for  water  recycling  depending  on  end  use  (3
lectures), recovery of valuables from waste water, zero liquid discharge (ZLD)(5 lectures). [8 lectures]
Waste Water Treatment Design Lab (28 hrs)
Sand filtration system
Municipal waste water system
Grey water treatment system
Sewage water treatment system
Industrial waste water systems
Pond water treatment
1.  Burton F.L., Tchobanoglous G., Stensel H.D., 2017, Waste Water Engineering Treatment and
Reuse, 4thed., Tata McGraw-Hill.
2.  Arceivala S.J. and Asolekar S.R., 2007, Wastewater Treatment for Pollution Control and
Reuse, 3rd Ed., Tata McGraw Hill.
1. Henze M., van-Loosdrecht M.C.M., Ekama G.A. and Brdjanovic D., 2008, Biological
Wastewater Treatment: Principles, Modelling and Design, IWA publishing.
2. Sincero A.P. and Sincero G.A., 1996, Environmental Engineering – A Design Approach,
Online Course Material
Tiwari M K, Wastewater treatment and recycling, NPTEL course material, Department of Civil
Engineering, IIT Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105105178/
(i) Chemical Engineering, (ii) Civil and
B.Tech., M.Tech., M.Tech.-Ph.D.
The instructor will:
1.  Impart the knowledge to the students with the methods of assessment of environmental
impacts due to developmental and industrial activities.
2.  Expose the students with the EIA regulations and EMP.
The students are expected to have the:
1.  In-depth knowledge of the methods of assessment of environmental impacts due to
developmental and industrial activities.
2.  In-depth knowledge of EIA regulations and EMP.
Introduction to EIA; definitions and concepts (2 lectures); evolution of EIA historical development of
lectures)  strategic  environmental  assessment;
environmental clearance procedure (4 lectures). [11 lectures]
forecasting  environmental  changes;(5
EIA  documentation  and  processes;  preliminary  stages  of  EIA;  project  types  and  screening;(5
lectures) impact prediction; evaluation and mitigation (4 lectures); EIA monitoring and auditing (2
lectures). [11 lectures]
EIA regulations; TOR for EIAs; EIA at regional level (3 lectures), sectoral level, and policy level;(3
lectures) sustainable development; Environmental Management Plan (EMP)(5 lectures). [11 lectures]
Future strategies (4 lectures) and EIA case studies (5 lectures). [9 lectures]
1. Canter, L., Environmental Impact Assessment, McGraw Hill, New York, 1996.
1.  World Bank, ‘Environmental Assessment Source Book’, Environment Dept.,
Washington D.C., 1991.
2.  Rau, G.J. and Wooten, C.D., Environmental Impact Analysis Handbook, McGraw Hill, New
York, 1980. Preventive environmental management.
Online Course Material
Dubey B K, Introduction to Environmental Engineering and Science – Fundamental and Sustainability
Concepts, NPTEL course material, Department of Civil Engineering, Indian Institute  of Technology
Department  Chemical Engineering
Hydrogen and Methanol Economy
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0
Offered for  MTECH, MTECH-PhD, PhD
The Instructor will:
1. Provide in-depth knowledge about Hydrogen and Methanol production, storage, their Utility
and infrastructure development.
3.    Impart knowledge about the economic and environmental viewpoint of using Hydrogen and
Methanol as fuel sources.
The students are expected to have:
1.  Proper knowledge about Hydrogen and Methanol production and related issues.
2.  Economic view point of Hydrogen and Methanol as fuel and the related challenges & opportunities.
Hydrogen and methanol as fuels: General aspects, Prelude to the energy systems, Hydrogen and
Methanol as energy sources, Future energy supply, Economy and Environment, Sustainability (6)
Hydrogen economy: Properties, production, storage, utilization and safely, Infrastructure requirement,
Hydrogen as a transportation fuel, Hydrogen based fuel cell. (12)
Methanol economy: Properties, production, storage, transportation and safely, Infrastructure
Requirement, Methanol as fuel and energy carrier, Methanol as automobile, marine and aviation
Challenges  and  opportunities:  Indian  and  global  perspectives,  Domestic  and  transportation
application, Affordable Technology development, Policy. (6)
Case studies: Comparative study with other energy sources. (4)
1.   G. A. Olah, A. Goeppert, G. K. S. Prakash, (2006), Beyond Oil and Gas: The Methanol
Economy, Wiley□VCH, Weinheim, Germany.
2.  Ball M. and Wietschel M.,(2009) The Hydrogen Economy Opportunities and Challenges,
Cambridge University Press.
1.   A. Scipioni, A. Manzardo, J. Ren, (2017) Hydrogen Economy: Supply Chain, Life Cycle
Analysis and Energy Transition for Sustainability, Academic Press.
2.  M. Bertau, H. Offermanns, L. Plass, F. Schmidt, H. Wernicke,(2014) Methanol: The Basic
Chemical and Energy Feedstock of the Future, Springer; 2014
The Instructor will provide basic knowledge about molecular science and engineering of water.
The students are expected to gain knowledge about molecular science and engineering of water.
Properties of the water molecule, hydrogen bonding, clusters, supercritical water, condensed
phases, solutions, confined and interfacial water, clathrates, and nucleation. [7 lectures]
Methods of water purification, water splitting and fuel cells, water in atmospheric and climate
science, and water in biology, health and medicine. [7 lectures]
Leach, R. (2001) Molecular Modelling: Principles and Applications, Pearson Education.
Online Learning Materials
Srabani Taraphder, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/104/105/104105088/
Polymers for Electronics and Optoelectronics
Department  Chemical Engineering
Polymer as material fractal
The Instructor will:
1. Detailed know-how about polymers for electronics and optoelectronics
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain detailed knowledge about polymers that are relevant to Electronics and Optoelectronics
2.  Learn about printed circuit board technology based on polymers
Fractal 1 [14 lectures]:
Introduction:  basics  of  electronic  polymers  and  their  chemistry,  structure-property  of  polymers  (3
lectures),  electronic  nanocomposites,  electrical  charge  transport/  transfer  theories  (4  lectures),
optoelectronic  polymers,  optical  polymers,  optical  electroactive  polymers,  organic  photovoltaic
polymers (3 lectures), basics of piezoelectricity, microelectronics, optoelectronics (4 lectures)
Fractal 2 [14 lectures]:
Properties of Organic Electronic Structures: band gap and excitation energy, absorption wavelength,
transparency,  optical  absorption,  birefringence,  optical
transmission,  haze,  polarizability,
photoconductivity, optical emission, luminescence (4 lectures)
Polymers in Organic Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs): Overview, polymers for traditional PCBs, prepreg,
single-sided and double sided circuit boards, multilayered PCBs, flexible PCBs (5 lectures), rigid-flex,
3D PCBs, molded interconnect devices, smart textile PCBs (5 lectures)
1. Sulaiman,K., (2020), Polymers in Organic Electronics – Polymer Selection for Electronic,
Mechatronic & Optoelectronic Systems, 1st Edition, ChemTec Publishing
The Instructor will provide basic knowledge about statistical mechanics, molecular dynamics and
introduce the Monte Carlo method.
The students are expected to gain knowledge about:
Statistical mechanics and molecular dynamics; and
Monte Carlo method.
Statistical Mechanics: Basics of statistical mechanics, ideal monoatomic gas, canonical ensemble,
grand-canonical and isobaric-isothermal ensemble. [8 lectures]
Molecular  dynamics:  Basics  of  molecular  dynamics,  force  field  and  integrating  algorithms,  periodic
box  and  minimum  image  convention,  non-bonded  interactions,  estimation  of  pure  component
properties. [10 lectures]
Introduction to Monte-Carlo methods. [5 lectures]
Case studies like Monte Carlo simulation in polymers. [5 lectures]
Leach, R. (2001) Molecular Modelling: Principles and Applications, Pearson Education.
Online Learning Materials
Srabani Taraphder, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/104/105/104105088/
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide knowledge about different aspects of food engineering.
2.  Train the student in food preservation and food processing.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand different aspects of food engineering and food preservation.
2.  Analyze the food processing aspects.
General introduction of food, food engineering and food preservation. [4 lectures]
Composition of foods, chemistry, properties, and function of carbohydrates, proteins, amino acids,
lipids, vitamins. [7 lectures]
General principles underlying spoilage and chemical changes of food caused by microorganisms. [5
Food preservation by application of heat (canning), dehydration, freezing, ionization radiation,
chemical preservatives, fermentation and the like. [7 lectures]
Case studies of food processing viz. meat, fish and poultry; vegetables and fruits; bakery and dairy
products. [7 lectures]
Quality control of food and food products. [3 lectures]
Food laws, rules and standards, food engineering overview, [3 lectures]
Production of engineered food products, [3 lectures]
Case studies in food engineering, Industrial and commercial aspects of food technology. [3 lectures]
1.  Murano P. Understanding Food Science and Technology
2.  Friberg,  S.  Handbook of Food and Beverage Fermentation Technology (Food Science and
1.  Reed G, Prescott and Dunn's Industrial Microbiology
2.  Shuler, M.L. and Kargi, F. [2003] Bioprocess Engineering: Basic Concepts, Prentice Hall of India
Online Course Material
Modelling of Atoms, Molecules and Surfaces
Department  Chemical Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree
The Instructor will:
1. Provide background on various forms of Intermolecular and Molecule-Surface interactions.
The students are expected to:
1.  Gain fundamental understanding on the molecular nature of systems and surfaces.
2.  Learn about the importance of intermolecular forces in molecular modeling and simulations
in chemical and allied engineering.
Introduction: Four Forces of Nature, Early Scientific Period (1 Lecture), First Phenomenological
Theories, Modern View of origin of Intermolecular Forces (2 Lectures). [3 Lectures]
Forces Between Atoms and Molecules, Principle and Concepts: Some Thermodynamic Aspects
of  Intermolecular  Forces  (3  Lectures),  Covalent  and  Coulomb  Interactions  (3  Lectures),
Interactions  Involving  Polar  Molecules,  Interactions  Involving  Polarisation  of  Molecules  (5
Lectures),  van  der  Waals  Forces  (3  Lectures),  Repulsive  Forces,  Total  Pair  Potentials  (3
Lectures),  Hydrogen  Bonding,  Hydrophobic  and  Hydrophilic  Interactions  (2  Lectures).  [19
Forces Between Particles and Surfaces: Concepts of Intermolecular and Interparticle Forces (2
Lectures), Contrast Between Intermolecular, Interparticle and Intersurface Forces (3 Lectures),
van der Waals Forces Between Surfaces (2 Lectures), Electrostatic Forces Between Surfaces in
Liquids  (5  Lectures),  Solvation,  Structural  and  Hydration  Forces  (3  Lectures),  Steric  and
Fluctuation Forces (3 Lectures), Adhesion (2 Lectures). [20 Lectures]
1.  J. N. Israelachvili, 2003, Intermolecular and Surface Forces, 2nd Edition, Academic