Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Dual degree M.Tech. (AI) + PhD
offered by the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a branch of computer science that aims to create machines to act with higher
levels of intelligence and emulate the human capabilities of sense, comprehend and act. The core problems of
artificial intelligence include programming computers for certain traits such as Knowledge, Reasoning,
Problem-solving, Perception, Learning and Planning. AI technology development and applications are
evolving rapidly with major implications for economies and societies. As the demand for such applications
increases, there is also an increasing need for building the future workforce for AI. For developing the AI
ecosystem, this program will be executed in synergy with other M.Tech programs running in IIT Jodhpur,
such as Sensors & IoT, Cyber-Physical Systems, and Advanced Manufacturing and Design.
This M.Tech in AI programme will offer students with deep knowledge of both fundamental AI technologies,
as well as application-oriented AI. A student completing this program will be capable to undertake careers in
industry as well as academia. He/She will have the option to explore a variety of domains including
Manufacturing, Fintech, Healthcare, Agriculture/Food Processing, Education, Retail/Customer Engagement,
Human and Robot interaction/intelligent automation, Smart City , Aid for Differently Abled/Accessibility
Expected Graduate Attributes:
After completing this programme, a student will be able to develop an ability to:
1.  Comprehend fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of the state-of-the-art AI methodologies.
2.  Design and Build real-world AI systems for complex planning, decision making and learning, solving
application-specific problems, and to reason about them.
3.  Conceive, Design and Develop Intelligent multi-modal multi-sensory Man-Machine interfaces.
4.  Design, Develop and Deploy machine learning based applications using structured and unstructured
data (e.g., speech, text, images/videos).
5.  Understand and Assess reliability, dependability and trust-worthiness of AI-based systems.
6.  Design and develop AI applications for resource constrained environments.
7.  Adhere to evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and territories.
8.  Plan and manage technical projects.
1.  Understand the fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Inference Engines, Speech,
Vision, Natural Language Understanding, Robotics, and Human Computer Interaction.
2.  Unify the knowledge of human cognition, AI, Machine Learning and data engineering for
3.  Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of state-of-the-art AI tools for real-world problem-solving.
4.  Ability to develop real-time and robust AI-based systems with specific software, hardware and data
5.  Build solutions to explore fully immersive computer-generated worlds (in VR), and overlay computer
graphics onto our view of our immediate environment (AR) along with smart, cognitive functionality.
6.  Demonstrate advanced skills to comprehend and communicate effectively.
7.  Carry out projects using intelligent cognitive solutions provided by AI algorithms to get more insights
in stakeholder management, risk modeling, intelligent resource scheduling and managing project
constraints with intelligent use of data models.