5th International Conference on Nonlinear
Applied Analysis and Optimization (ICNAAO-2025)
Dec 4-6, 2025
Department of Mathematics
IIT Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India, 342030
In collaboration with
Department of Mathematics
ABOUT THE CITY
IIT  Jodhpur  is  located  in  the  town  of  Jodhpur,  which  is
situated  in  the  Jodhpur  district  of  the  Indian  state  of
Rajasthan. Jodhpur, known as the "Blue City" and "Sun City,"
is a historic and vibrant city in Rajasthan, India, famous for
the  imposing  Mehrangarh  Fort  overlooking  a  maze  of
blue-painted houses in its old town. Founded in 1459 by Rao
Jodha, this former capital of the Marwar kingdom is now a
major  tourist  destination  celebrated  for  its  unique  culture,
architecture,  cuisine,  and  strategic  location  in  the  Thar
Desert, serving as a gateway to the region.
ABOUT IIT JODHPUR
Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur was established
in  2008,  to  foster  technology  education  and  research  in
India.  The  Institute  is  committed  to  technological  thought
and  action  to  beneﬁt  the  economic  development  of  India.
The  Institute  is  committed  to  multidisciplinary  approach  of
technology  development.  Hence,
it  has  established
state-of-the-art  laboratories  for  basic  and  applied  research
and  has  organized  its  academic  degree  activities  through
departments  and  its  coordinated  research  through  Centers
ABOUT THE DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS
The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to advancing
the  ﬁelds  of  pure  mathematics,  applied  mathematics  and
statistics. Our vision is to emphasize both the fundamental
principles  of  core  mathematics  and  the  foundational
concepts  essential  for  analyzing  key  principles  applied  in
cutting-edge  technologies.  The  department  also  aimed  to
explore  modern  aspects  of  mathematics  coupled  with
to  develop  a  workforce
specialized  in  mathematical  aspects  of  key  technologies.
Currently, we oﬀer various programmes, namely, a two-year
M.Sc.  program  in  Mathematics,  a  four-year  M.Sc-M.Tech
program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences,
a  two  year  M.Tech  program  in  Data  and  Computational
Sciences, and Ph.D.
ABOUT THE CONFERENCE
The Conference ICNAAO is in its 5th edition this year. The
objective  of  the  conference  is  to  motivate  and  equip  the
participants  with  the  recent  state-of-art  of  mathematical
optimization,  nonlinear  analysis,  ﬁxed  point  theory,
dynamical  systems,  fractals,  applications  to  diﬀerential/
integral  equations  and  to  signal  &  image  processing,
machine learning, soft computing as well as to expose the
young  talents  with  the  newer  dimensions  in  these  areas
with  their  practical  approaches  to  tackle  the  real  life
problems in engineering, medical and social sciences.
Linear and Non-linear
Fixed Point Theory
Heuristics and Metaheuristics
Optimization for Machine
Optimization and Learning
Selected  high  quality  articles  will  be  published  in  the
special issue of SCI/Scopus Indexed reputed journals.
WHO CAN ATTEND?
Faculty  /  Researchers  /  Scientist  from  academic  /
technical  institutions  /  industries  and  R&D  Centers.
Postdoctoral  /  Ph.D.  students  from  various  institutes,
universities, colleges, research organization.
4-6 December 2025
30 September 2025
Notiﬁcation of Acceptance
10 October 2025
5 September 2025
Registration Open (presenter)
10 October 2025
Early bird registration close
30 October 2025
Regular Registration close
10 November 2025
Participants from Indian
Academia/ R&D Labs
Participants from Industry
Students (Paper presenter)
* Early bird will enjoy a discount in registration charges
of  Rs.  1000/-  for  Indian  participant  and  USD  50  for
# Additional 18% GST will be paid by the participant
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Tanmoy Som, IIT BHU, India (Coordinator
Prof. D. R. Sahu, BHU, India
Dr. VVMS Chandramouli,
Head, Department of Mathematics, IITJ
Dr. Kuntal Som, IITJ
Dr. MAT Ansary, IITJ
Prof. Gaurav Bhatnagar, IITJ
Dr. Kirankumar R Hiremath, IITJ
Dr. Dilpreet Kaur, IITJ
Dr. Pankaj Gautam, IIT Roorkeee
Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee, IITJ
Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh, IITJ
Prof. V. Vetrivel, IITM, India
Prof. Joydeep Dutta, IITK, India
Prof. Geetanjali Panda, IIT KGP, India
Prof. Akhtar A Khan, RIT, USA
Prof. Markus Grasmair, NTNU, Norway
Prof. K.S. Mallikarjun Rao, IIT Bombay, India
Prof. D.K. Ganguly, BC (CU), India (VP, CMS)
Prof. Arindam Bhattacharya, JU, India (Secretary, CMS)
Prof. B.S. Choudhury, IIEST Shibpur, India (CMS)
Prof. Indrajit Lahiri, KU, VC-NSOU, India (President CMS)
CALL FOR PAPERS & PUBLICATIONS
The  abstract  in  the  speciﬁc  format  (available  on  the
conference site) should be sent through the Google form:
Selected  High  quality  papers  will  be  published  in  the
special issue of SCI/ SCOPUS indexed reputed journal
For the updates and other information, please visit the
Dr. Kuntal Som
Phone No: 0291 280 1474
Department of Mathematics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Rajasthan, India, 342030