Department of Mathematics
Minor in Data Science
Data Science is the art of generating insight, knowledge and predictions by processing of data gathered
about a system or a process. It emerges as a multi-disciplinary field that generally highlight the use of
statistics, predictive modelling and machine learning without changing its application, irrespective of the
domain. Today, data science has far reaching implications in many fields, both academic and applied
research domains like governance, finance, security, transportation, healthcare, energy management,
agriculture, population studies, weather prediction, economics, social sciences, predictive maintenance,
structural health monitoring, smart manufacturing and computational structural biology. The growing
importance of data science has in turn led to the need of inculcating it in the educational ecosystem to
come up with the future workforce.
2. Objectives of the minor
The main objective of specialization in Data Science is to equip students with the fundamental concepts,
approaches, and methods in data science. On the completion of the minor, students will develop critical
and logical thinking to solve problems in data science and further will be able to use appropriate
technology that aids their problem-solving and data analysis.
3. Minor Compulsory courses (8 Credits)
Introduction to Data Science
Statistical Inference and Simulation Techniques
Advanced Machine Learning
Applied ML Lab
4. Minor Electives courses (12 Credits)
Introduction to Financial Engineering
Stochastic Calculus for Finance
Time Series Analysis
Reliability Engineering and Life Testing
Introduction to Game Theory
Non-linear dynamics and chaos
Maths for Big Data
Discrete Mathematical Structures and Applications
10 Mathematical Biology
Statistical Models and Regression
Topological Data Analysis
Group Theory for Machine Learning
Image and Video Analytics
Advanced Artificial Intelligence
Graph Theoretic Algorithms
Image and Video Forensics
Introduction to AR and VR
Notes: The permission of Senate is requested for the following:
(1) To include the 700 level courses (highlighted in Yellow colour) in the Elective list of MTech (Data
and Computational Sciences).
(2) To include the courses with S.No. 9, 10 and 11 in the Elective list of MSc (Mathematics).
5. Offered for: All BTech students except BTech CSE, BTech AI&DE and BTech EE
6. Detailed Course Content of Compulsory Courses
Applied ML Lab
Minor in Data Science
The Instructor will
applicability to the problems involved in their domain.
introduce students to the importance of Machine Learning techniques and their
The students are expected to have the ability to design and implement Machine Learning techniques for
the problems of the domain.
The lab course is a mini project laboratory where the students will select a problem(s) from their
domain and will solve the selected problem on the basis of machine learning algorithms. This unique lab
will provide an opportunity to the students to undertake ML based research in their own domain.
1. Research literature
2. Research literature
Online Course Material
7. Detailed Course Content of Elective Courses
Discrete Mathematical Structures and Applications
Minor in Data Science
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce the methods of analytical, abstract and critical thinking.
2. Provide logical and mathematical tools for problem solving skills.
3. Provide formal definitions in combinatorics and graph theory with their applications.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the notion of mathematical thinking, mathematical proofs, and algorithmic thinking, and
be able to apply them in problem solving.
2. Understand some basic properties of graphs and related discrete structures, and be able to relate
these to practical examples.
Mathematical Logic [7 Lectures]: Propositional Logic, First Order Logic, Proof techniques, Mathematical
Induction, application to verify the algorithms and processes.
Set Theory and Algebra [9 Lectures]: Sets, Paradoxes in Set Theory, Inductive Definitions of Sets and
Proof by Induction, Relations, Functions, Partial Orders, Lattice, Boolean Algebra, Groups and Rings:
Examples and Basic Properties, Error-correcting codes [6 Lectures], Secret sharing, Applications in
Cryptography specifically in RSA cryptography, (k,n)-threshold scheme and visual cryptography [3
Combinatorics [12 Lectures]: Recurrence relations, common techniques for solving recursions,
Permutations, Combinations, Counting,
Polya Counting, Stirling numbers, Bell numbers,
Combinatorial Sums [8 Lectures]; Applications of combinatorics in Machine Learning and Number
Theory [4 Lectures].
Graph Theory [14 Lectures]: Connectivity, Trees and its properties, Cut vertices & edges, Covering,
Matching, Independent sets [7 Lectures]; Coloring, Planarity, Isomorphism, Applications of Graphs in
Supply Chain, Networks and Marketing Analytics [7 Lectures].
1. Rosen, K. H., (1999), Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications, McGraw-Hill.
2. Epp, S.S., (2004) Discrete Mathematics with Applications, Thomson-Brooks/Cole.
1. K. A. Ross and C. R. B. Wright, (2003) Discrete Mathematics (Fifth Edition), Prentice Hall.
2. Van Lint, J. H. and Wilson, R. M., (2009), A Course in Combinatorics, Cambridge University Press
3. Matousek, J. and Nesetril, J., (2008), Invitation to Discrete Mathematics, Oxford University Press.
Online Course Material
1. Dr. Kamala Krithivasan, Discrete Mathematical Structures, NPTEL Course Materials, Department
Statistical Models and Regression
Minor in Data Science
Probability, Statistics and Random Processes
The Instructor will discuss the following aspects
1. Statistical Modelling
2. Linear and Non-linear Regression
3. ANOVA and Analysis of Categorical Data
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand applications of regression and assumptions
2. Formation of Contingency Tables and Its Analysis
3. Use of R for Analysis of Real Data
Introduction to Statistical Modeling [6 Lectures]: Model Diagnostics, Transformations, Multicollinearity,
Influence, Model Building, Variable Selection.
Linear regression [8 Lectures]: Bi-variate Gaussian Distribution, Assumptions for linear regression,
Estimation of Parameters by Least Square Approximation, Hypothesis Test and Confidence Intervals for
Model Parameters, Multiple Linear Regression with data examples, Residual Analysis
Regression Cont [14 Lectures]: Introduction to Logistic Regression and Poisson Regression Within the
More General Regression Approach, Exponential Family of Distributions, Generalized Linear Model With
Data Examples. Introduction to Multiple Approaches to Variable Selection Illustrated with an Extensive
Data Analysis Example
Analysis of Variance [6 Lectures]: One way and Two way ANOVA with applications
Analysis of Categorical Data [8 Lectures] – Contingency Table, Log-linear Modeling, Measures of
Association, Testing of Hypotheses of associations for 2-way and 3-way tables
Lab R Programing: Reading in Data, Tables, Linear regression and basic plotting, One way ANOVA and
QQ-norm plots, Two way ANOVA and Box Plots, Logistic and Poisson regression, Analysis of contingency
table, demonstration of the tools for some data.
1. Montgomery D. C., Peck, E. A. and Vining, G. G. (2013) Introduction to Linear Regression
2. Althem, P. M. E. (2015) Introduction to Statistical Modelling in R, Cambridge University Press
1. Draper, N.R. and Smith, H. (2011). Applied Regression Analysis, Wiley Series.
2. Rohatgi, V.K. and Saleh, A.K.M.E. (2008). An Introduction to Probability and Statistics, Wiley.
Salabh, Linear Regression Analysis and Forecasting, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mathematics
and Statistics, IIT Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111/104/111104098/
Topological Data Analysis
Minor in Data Science
The Instructor will:
1. Provide the introduction to the topological data analysis.
2. Provide new methods lying at the interface between pure mathematics, applied mathematics, and
The students are expected to have the ability to:
3. Be familiar with basics in topology that are useful for data analysis.
4. Develop a comprehensive understanding of extracting topological information from data.
5. Appreciate the connection of Pure and Applied mathematics with computer science.
Introduction (4 lectures): Motivation for topological data analysis, Basic concepts (graphs, connected
components, topological space, manifold, point clouds), Combinatorial structures on point cloud data,
topology based dimension reduction, topology-based data partition and classification.
Topological Homology (5 lectures): Homotopy, homeomorphism, Classification of surfaces up to
Approximation, Simplicial homology, Chains spaces, Boundary operators, Homology group,
Topological Persistence (5 lectures): Topological
Incremental algorithm for filtrations,
persistent homology groups, Persistence diagrams, persistence decomposition, persistence matrix
reduction, stability of matrix reduction, transpositions, switches, types of switching, Bottleneck
distance, Stability of filtrations and persistence.
Topological Inference (8 lectures): Topological distance functions, medial axis and reach, topology from
data, homotopy equivalence, Cech and Rips filtrations, nerves filtration, persistent nerves, sparsified
filtrations and their usage in inference.
Topological Learning (10 lectures): Learning with Persistence Diagrams, kernal Hilbert space, Kernels for
persistence diagrams, Explicit Feature Map in Rd, Wasserstein Gaussian kernel, Frechet means in
diagrams space, Hilbert space embedding, Deviation inequality, Confidence regions, landscapes,
Subsampling with landscapes.
Manifold Learning (10 lectures): Motivation for manifold learning, Multi-dimensional Scaling (MDS),
metric MDS, isomaps, isomap interpolation, Local Linear Embedding, Maximum Variance Unfolding,
Laplacian Eigenmap, Manifold Geometry and its application to clustering.
1. H. Edelsbrunner, J. Harer, (2009) Computational Topology: An Introduction. AMS Press.
2. S. Oudot, (2015) Persistence Theory: From Quiver Representations to Data Analysis. AMS Surveys
and Monographs, Vol. 209.
3. James R. Munkres, (1984) Elements of Algebraic Topology, Perseus.
4. Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani and Jerome Friedman, (2009) The Elements of Statistical Learning
(2nd edition). Springer-Verlag.
Online Course Material
Group Theory for Machine Learning
Minor in Data Science
The Instructor will:
1. Provide the introduction of group theoretic aspect for Machine Learning
2. Give sufficient knowledge of the subject which can be used by students for further applications in
their respective domains of interest.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Develop a comprehensive understanding of harmonic analysis of group theory.
2. Appreciate the connection of group theory and machine learning.
Introduction to groups for Machine Learning (4 lecture): Groups as systems of transformations, Group
axioms, Classes of groups: finite, countable, and Lie groups.
Group representations (6 lecture): Group equivalence and reducibility, isomorphism, homomorphism,
normal subgroups, direct product and semi-direct product of groups, classification of groups, group
action, groups in the real world (quantum mechanics, robotics and permutations).
Harmonic analysis on the symmetric group (8 lecture): Permutation cycle notation and cycle type,
Partial rankings, commutative and non-commutative harmonic analysis, convolution theorem and
Plancherel’s theorem, Decomposition of the group into isotypal components, Young diagrams, Young
tableaux and Young’s orthogonal representation.
Application of group theory (8 lecture): Spectral analysis of ranking data, Fast Fourier transforms, the
Cooley-Tukey algorithm and its interpretation in terms of subgroups, Clausen’s FFT for permutation
and multi-object tracking.
Lie groups and invariance (10 lecture): Definition of Lie groups, Generators, the exponential map and
Lie algebra, the rotation groups: parametrization and representations, connection to spherical
harmonics Homogeneous spaces,
the classical spectrum and
bispectrum and their generalization to non-commutative groups, Kakarala’s completeness results,
application to fast pattern matching, rotation and translation invariant features in image processing.
the Euclidean motion groups,
Group theory in Deep learning (6 lecture)
1. H. Edelsbrunner, J. Harer, (2009) Computational Topology: An Introduction. AMS Press.
2. Chirikjian, G. S., Kyatkin, A. B., (2001) Engineering applications of noncommutative harmonic
analysis. CRC Press.
3. Diaconis, P., (1988) Group Representation in Probability and Statistics. Volume 11 of IMS Lecture
Series, Institute of Mathematical Statistics.
4. Kanatani, K., (1990) Group theoretical methods in image understanding, Springer-Verlag.
Online Course Material
Minor in Data Science
The Instructor will:
1. Provide the introduction to the science and technology of visual analytics.
2. Provide exposure on both theoretical foundations and application methodologies.
3. Practical experience building and evaluating visualization systems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the purpose of visualization in general and visual analytics in particular.
2. Develop a comprehensive understanding of this emerging, multidisciplinary field.
3. Apply that understanding toward a focused research problem in a real-world application.
Introduction (2 lectures): Motivation, Historical Perspective on Visual Analytics and overview.
Data Visualization and Visualization Models (5 lectures): Exploring the digital age, visualization as a
tool, defining data visualization, visualization design objectives and process, classification of data
visualization, Reference model, Data state reference model, Visual analytics model, Sense making
Loop, Visual Analytics Process.
Data Mining and Interaction (8 lectures): Data representation, Extracting salient features from data,
encoded representation of data, Data aggregation and sampling, data reduction and projection, data
integration, data attributes, visualization attributes, Interaction operators, operands and space,
Interaction with data and problem space, Interaction with visual interfaces, data structure space,
animating transformation and interaction control.
Visualizing Techniques (14 lectures): Visualization of spatial data (one-, two- and three-dimensional
line and area data) (3 lectures),
data) (3 lectures), visualization of Geospatial data (point,
visualization of time oriented data, visualization of multivariate data (5 lectures), visualization of
trees, graphs and networks (3 lectures).
Analytic Provenance and Evaluation Methods (7 lectures): Data provenance, Information provenance,
Human-Visualization Interactions, Epistemic Action, Nested Model of VIS Design, Matching methods
and metrics, Insight-based evaluation.
Advanced Visualization Analytics (6 lectures): Interactive graphics (Mosaic plots, parallel coordinate
plots and Trellis Displays), infographics, types of infographics, visualization of high dimensional data.
1. Tamara Munzner, 1st edition (2014), Visualization Analysis and Design (AK Peters Visualization
Series), A K Peters/CRC Press.
2. Daniel Keim, Jörn Kohlhammer, Geoffrey Ellis, and Florian Mansmann, (2010). Mastering the
Information Age Solving Problems with Visual Analytics, Published by the Eurographics Association.
3. Matthew Ward, Georges Grinstein, and Daniel Keim, (2010),
Interactive Data Visualization:
Foundations, Techniques, and Applications, A K Peters Ltd.
1. Claus O. Wilke, 1st edition (2019), Fundamentals of Data Visualization, O’Reilly Media
2. Koponen, J. and Hildén, J., (2019), Data Visualization Handbook, CRC Press.
3. Jason Lankow, J., Ritchie, J., and Crooks, R., (2012), Infographics: The Power of Visual Storytelling,
John Wiley & Sons.
Online Course Material
Image and Video Analytics
Minor in Data Science
The Instructor will:
1. Provide the key techniques and theory used in image and video analytics.
2. To develop the understanding of different types of analytics processes.
3. Provide exposure to a number of common image and video analytics application domains.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify and apply appropriate principles for image and video analytics.
2. Appreciate the implementation described in the image and video analytics applications.
Introduction and Image basics [2 Lectures]: Image formation, Digital Image, Image sampling and
quantization, Definition, Digital Image Characteristics, Representation and visualization.
Feature extraction [4 Lectures]: Global
characterizing shapes, Hough Transform.
feature specific measurement,
Representation and Description [7 Lectures]: Region Identification, Contour Based and Region Based
Shape Representation and Description– Shape Classes, active contours, active shape and active
appearance, Syntactic and Hybrid Texture Description Methods.
Image Understanding [5 Lectures]: Control Strategies, Point Distribution Models, RANSAC, Scene
Labeling and Constraint Propagation.
Introduction to Video Analytics [3 Lectures]: Fundamentals of video, Advantages of employing video
analytics (security and non-security), Distinguish between edge and server based analytics,
Distinguish between computing and graphical processing power requirements in video analytics.
Object Detection and Tracking [3 Lectures]: Background modeling, shadow detection, eigen faces,
texture modeling, Object Tracking using Active Contours.
Tracking & Video Analysis [7 Lectures]: Tracking and Motion Understanding, Kalman filters,
particle, Bayesian filters, hidden Markov models, Motion estimation and
Compensation-Block Matching Method, Hierarchical Block Matching, Overlapped Block Motion and
compensation, Motion Estimation, Mesh Based Method, Optical Flow Method.
ML-driven Video Analytics Systems [10 Lectures]: ML based object detection and recognition, machine
learning optimizations for modern video analytics without violating latency and query accuracy
expectations. Case studies in Face Detection and Recognition, Natural Scene Videos, Crowd Analysis,
Video Surveillance, Traffic Monitoring, Intelligent Transport System.
1. M. Sonka, V. Hlavac and R. Boyle, (2007) Image Processing, Analysis and Machine Vision, Third
Edition, Cengage Learning.
2. D. Zhang, (2019) Fundamentals of Image Data Mining: Analysis, Features, Classification and
3. A Murat Tekalp, (1995) Digital Video Processing, Pearson.
4. F. Camastra and A. Vinciarelli, (2015) Machine Learning for Audio, Image and Video Analysis Theory
and Applications, Springer.
Online Course Material
Minor for Data Science
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce a variety of basic principles, techniques for text mining.
2. Use these tools for text categorization, text clustering and topic modelling.
3. Explore various text mining applications.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand principles and various techniques for text mining
2. Apply the tools for text categorization, text clustering and topic modelling
3. Carry of sentiment analysis, Document summarization, develop recommendation system, carry out
Introduction (2 Lectures): Definition of text mining, motivation for Text mining, challenges with text
data and its applications.
representation (7 lectures): Representation of unstructured text, document models
(vector-space models and language models), determining the vocabulary of terms, Bag-of-Words
representation, document frequency, Generative view of text documents, perplexity.
Natural language processing (6 lectures): Basic techniques in natural language processing, tokenization,
part-of-speech tagging, chunking, syntax parsing and named entity recognition, Public NLP toolkits,
Embedding space, Word2Vec, Glove.
Text categorization and clustering (7 lectures): Text categorization algorithms, Identifying the clustering
text documents, assigning documents to the identified cluster(s),
structure of a corpus of
connectivity-based clustering and centroid-based clustering.
Topic modeling (8 lectures): Uncovering the hidden thematic structure in document collections, the
general idea of topic modelling, Probabilistic Latent Semantic Indexing (pLSI) and Latent Dirichlet
Allocation (LDA), and their variants for different application scenarios, including classification,
imagine annotation, collaborative filtering, and hierarchical topical structure modeling.
Text Mining Applications (12 lectures): Sentiment analysis (sentiment polarity prediction, review
mining, and aspect identification) (4 lectures), Document summarization and recommendation
the basic concepts of recommendation algorithms,
(Extraction-based summarization methods,
especially the content-based and collaborative filtering based solutions)
(4 lectures), Text
visualization (visual representations of abstract data to reinforce human cognition, mathematical and
programming tools to visualize a large collection of text documents) (4 lectures).
1. Michael W. Berry and Jacob Kogan, (2010), Text Mining: Applications and Theory, Wiley.
2. Charu C. Aggarwal and ChengXiang Zhai, (2012), Mining Text Data, Springer.
1. Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schuetze, (2007), Introduction to
Information Retrieval, Cambridge University Press.
2. Dan Jurafsky and James H Martin, (2000), Speech & Language Processing - An Introduction to
Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics, and Speech Recognition (2nd edition),
Pearson Education India.
Online Course Material
Minor in Data Science
The Instructor will:
1. This course is an exploration in applications of mathematical modeling in the analysis of biological
systems including population biology, physiology and in the biomedical sciences.
2. To show how mathematics can be used in an integrated way to analyze biological systems.
3. To develop student’s skills in algebraic manipulation, and the calculus of ordinary differential
equations, introduced in the context of biological systems.
After the completion of this course, students should:
1. have an enhanced knowledge and understanding of mathematical modeling in the analysis of
2. interpret biological assumptions in terms of mathematical equations
3. be better able to assess biological inferences that rest on mathematical arguments.
Discrete Processes in Biology: The Theory of Linear and Nonlinear Difference Equations Applied to
Population Biology (6 lectures)
Continuous Processes and Ordinary Differential Equations: Bacterial Growth in a Chemostat,
Dimensional Analysis, Steady-State Solutions, Stability and Linearization, Application to related
problems such as Delivery of drugs by continuous infusion, Modeling of Glucose -Insulin Kinetics etc (6
Phase Plane Methods and Qualitative Solutions: Systems of two first order ODEs, The Direction Field,
Nullclines, Phase Plane Diagrams for Linear Systems, Constructing a Phase Plane Diagram for the
Chemostat. (6 lectures)
Epidemiology and the SIRS Model: Analysis of equations,
Immunization, Variation STDs (5 lectures)
interpreting α, Nullcline analysis,
Application of Continuous Models to Population Dynamics: Malthus Model, Logistic Growth, Predator
Prey Systems and The Lotka -Volterra Equations, and Population in Competition. Numerical Methods to
solve system of differential equations (6 lectures)
Chemical Kinetics: Chemical Networks, Introduction to Enzymatic Reactions, Quasi-Steady State
Approximations and Michaelis-Menten Reactions, Fast and Slow Behavior, Singular Perturbation
Analysis, Inhibition, Allosteric Inhibition, Cooperativity. (6 lectures)
Numerical Methods to solve ODE: Euler’s method, finite difference methods, shooting method, multistep
methods, Taylors, Runge–Kutta–Fehlberg methods, ode45, linprog. (7 lectures)
1. Leah, Edelstein, Keshet, Mathematical Models in Biology, SIAM publications.
2. J.D. Murray, Mathematical Biology Vol. I, II, 3rd edition, Springer publications.
3. Martin A. Nowak-Evolutionary Dynamics: Exploring the equations of life, The Beklnap Press of
Harvard University Press, 2006
4. J.N. Kapur, Mathematical Models in Biology and Medicine, East-West Press Private limited.
5. K. Atkinson, W. Han, D. Stewart, Numerical Solutions of ODE, John Wiley and Sons publications
1. Fred Brauer and Carlos Castillo-Chavez, Mathematical Models in Population Biology and
Epidemiology, second edition, Springer publications.
2. Haberman, R, Mathematical Models: an introduction to applied mathematics, SIAM publisher
Online Course Reference Material
1. Dr. Ameeya Kumar Nayak,
IIT Roorkee, Mathematical Modeling, Analysis and application: