Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur | IIT Jodhpur
About IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was established in 2008, to foster technology education and research in India. The Institute is committed to technological thought and action to benefit the economic development of India. Scholarship in teaching and learning; Scholarship in research and creative accomplishments; and relevance to Industry are three driving forces for us at IIT Jodhpur. IIT Jodhpur functions from its sprawling residential Permanent Campus of 852 acres on National Highway 65, north-northwest of Jodhpur towards Nagaur. This campus is meticulously planned and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep.
Discover More about IITJ
View All Highlights
Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method
Structure and exfoliation mechanism of two-dimensional boron nanosheets
2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nano architectonics and Recent Progresses
MBA Admission 2026-28: CAT Cut-off for the Personal Interview
MBA 2026–28 Admissions date extended!
Extension Notice for the post of Registrar, Advt. No: 62.
( 155 KB )
Advertisement for the post of Registrar (on Tenure/Deputation), IIT Jodhpur
Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) at IIT Jodhpur ( 333 KB )
View All News
Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal (Impact Factor = 13)
Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka for receiving the CRSI Bronze Medal
Congratulations to Dr Sandip Murarka on his appointment as an Associate Editor of RSC Advances, a prestigious journal published by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC)
View All Announcements
Extension of application deadline for Empanelment of Advocate(s)/Law Firm(s) at IIT Jodhpur
List of Selected Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II
List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II (December 2025)
View All Events
National Safety Week, 07-08 March 2026
Hands-On Workshop on Recent Trends in Generative AI Models and Their Applications
Skill Development Program on MATLAB/Simulink and Software-Defined Radio (SDR)-Based...
Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Student Life at IIT Jodhpur
Student life at IIT Jodhpur is vibrant and enriching, offering a perfect blend of academic learning and extracurricular activities. With a focus on holistic development, the institute provides numerous opportunities for students to explore their interests and talents beyond the classroom.
The institute also emphasizes the importance of community service and social responsibility, encouraging students to engage in various outreach programs and initiatives that benefit society.
Discover More about Student Life at IITJ
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM