M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program in Communication Engineering | Office of Academics Affairs | IIT Jodhpur
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Program in Communication Engineering
Introduction During the past few years, there has been an exponential growth in the usage of internet and the demand for high speed access to video and data is also increasing. To meet this demand several new disruptive technologies like massive MIMO, mm-Wave communication, new waveforms are envisaged for 5G and beyond communications. The MTech-PhD Dual Degree in Communications Engineering prepares students for an advanced engineering career in communications engineering by providing exposure to disruptive communication technologies considered for next- generations communication networks. The courses are aimed at developing the fundamental understanding of MIMO Communications, millimeter wave technology, and network design for 5G and beyond. This theoretical knowledge is corroborated with hands-on experience towards the end-to-end implementation of communication systems. The program also provides students an opportunity to implement their research outcomes on available technology testbed and translate ideas into startup and/or generate IPR. The other key feature of this program is that while regular MTech and PhD might take 6 years in totality, this dual degree program offers the opportunity to the prospective students to complete their PhD within 4 years as the students will be exposed to research while they are doing their MTech course work. The program also offers freedom to the students to choose the program electives from a plethora of available electives based on their interest and background after consultation with their supervisors. The selected students will be offered JRF fellowship for the first two years of the program and SRF fellowship after the successful completion of their course work as per the MHRD guidelines. Objective of the Program Graduates from the program will be ready for careers in fields such as development, research, operations and management of next-generation telecommunication networks Expected Graduate Attributes 1. The graduates of this program will have strong fundamentals in MIMO, millimeter wave technology, energy-constrained network design and ultra-reliable low latency communication technology 2. Analytical and experimental skills required to design and implement next-generation communication networks for various applications like Internet-of-Things, Industry 4.0, eHealth, Smart City, Intelligent Transportation Systems 3. Ready for careers in fields such as development, research, operations and management of next-generation telecommunication networks. 4. Ability to teach and express ideas in both written and oral formats 5. Ability to do critical and creative thinking 6. Development of appreciation and commitment to professional ethics Learning Outcome 1. Strong fundamentals in MIMO communication technology, network information theory, and implementation aspects of 5G and beyond communication networks 2. Analytical and experimental skills to solve core communication network deployment issues for various applications like Internet-of-Things, Industry 4.0, eHealth, Smart City, Intelligent Transportation Systems 3. Develop understanding of cutting-edge research on future generations of wireless communication technologies like massive MIMO, mm-Wave technology and low-latency energy constrained network design. 4. Carry out research work demonstrating critical thinking, scientific problem solving and generate IPR 5. Develop skills to communicate scientific learning and present ideas
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM