Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
2nd year B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering
2nd year B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering
Reckoned as one of the most versatile engineering disciplines, Mechanical Engineering virtually touches every
aspect of modern life, from mobile phones and biomedical devices, to aircrafts and power plants. It is concerned
with technological advancements through the development of products, processes, and power, at scales ranging
from nano-scale to large and complex systems. Mechanical Engineering principles and skills are involved at some
stage during the conception, design, development, and manufacture of every human-made object. While design
and manufacturing involves design of mechanisms and the analysis of materials, thermo-fluid systems include
methods of energy conversions, heat transfer and fluid flow. Future innovations crucial to the country’s growth
will always have their roots in the world of mass, motion, forces and energy- the world of mechanical engineers.
At IIT Jodhpur, mechanical engineers are therefore trained, educated and positioned, in a way not only to adapt,
but to define direct change. This is reflected in the portfolio of current activities of the department. Our faculty
are involved in a wide range of projects in the areas of Energy conversion and power systems, heat transfer and
fluid mechanics, mechanics of solid, mechanical vibrations, robotics, autonomous unmanned vehicles, design
optimization,  acoustics  and  noise  control,  control  systems,  rotor  dynamics,  micro-nano  materials  and
applications,  biomechanics,  bio  inspired  thermofluids,  fluid  structure  interaction  etc.  to  name  a  few.
Additionally,  efforts  are  being  made  to  introduce  advance  concepts  like  smart  manufacturing,  Industry  4.O,
computational techniques, high-performance computing, applications of artificial intelligence, machine learning
algorithms, sensors and IoT as a part of solving mechanical engineering problems. Keeping a balance between
theory and hands-on-experience, the department intends to provide its students a solid foundation in core as
well as emerging areas of mechanical engineering by inspiring critical thinking and nurturing problem solving
2. Objective of the program
The key objectives of this program are:
a.  To enable students to have fundamental understanding of the core concepts of Mechanical Engineering
b.  To integrate analytical and computational ability with experimental skills to create individuals competent in
professional engineering practices
c.  To  stimulate  critical  thinking  towards  application  of  mechanical  engineering  concepts  in  interdisciplinary
d.  To expose students to advanced concepts like AI & ML, Industry 4.0 and IoT for product and system design
e.  To  inculcate  an  attitude  towards  commitment  to  engineering  ethics,  leadership  qualities  and  professional
3. Expected Graduate Attribute
Graduates of B.Tech program in Mechanical Engineering will have:
1.  Strong understanding of fundamentals of Thermofluids, Mechanical Design and Manufacturing (Processes
2.  Ability to apply mechanical engineering principles to address challenges in real life problems through creative
3.  Ability  to  use  different  simulation  and  computational  tools  for  a  better  understanding  and  designing  of
4.  Capability to appreciate the use of some of the advanced concepts like AI & ML, Robotics, Industry 4.0, IoT
in Mechanical Engineering applications
5.  Awareness of grassroots problems of the society and ability to provide technological solutions of sustainable
6.  Entrepreneurial spirit to undertake disruptive innovations
7.  Skills to communicate engineering concepts and ideas to peers in written or oral forms
8.  Commitment towards professional ethics and have humanitarian engineering skills.
4. Learning Outcome
Graduates of the B.Tech. program in Mechanical Engineering will:
1.  Gain  a  strong  understanding  of  mathematics,  science  and  engineering  fundamentals  of  mechanical
2.  Be able to design and conduct experiments as well as to analyze and interpret data
3.  Be introduced to concepts including engineering design / optimization / sensors fabrication / computational
methods / simulation tools /manufacturing systems and processes/ Industry 4.O/ thermal systems / fluid
flow systems/ energy engineering/ micro-nano materials and applications/ AI/ IoT/ Smart Computing for
4.  Have the ability to design a mechanical system, component or process tailored to meet desired needs under
socio-economic and environmental constraints
5.  Be exposed to common problems that are prevalent in the domains of energy storage, systems and devices,
clean  energy,  and  micro-nano  materials  and  applications,  futuristic  technology,  and  advanced  scientific
computation methods, allowing them to innovate and develop technological solutions for the same
6.  Receive effective, hands-on laboratory training as a part of laboratory courses and short-term research projects
7.  Develop their communication skills by participating in classroom presentations, seminars and workshops on
manuscript / patent writing / presentation skills
8.  Be taught the value of team work and group discussion in problem solving, and time management to continue
co-curricular activities without compromising for academics.
5. New skillsets targeted
Multi and interdisciplinary approaches:
1.  Design, develop and manufacturing of new or modified components for mechanical systems using computer-
aided design/modelling software/additive manufacturing
2.  Latest industrial pursuits, particularly in the areas of automation, robotics, and smart scientific computing,
3.  Development of smart manufacturing capabilities for relevant industries
4.  To play key roles in improving the range and performance of hybrid and electric automotive vehicles
5.  Design of power-producing machines in the fields of alternative energies
6.  Experimental validation of computational designs
7.  Selection of materials based on engineering applications to ensure that it is safe, reliable and efficient
8.  Advanced mechanical testing and characterization techniques
9.  Familiarity with advanced and futuristic scientific computing techniques
6. Topic clouds and Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed courses
Table 1. Topics and Mapping of Topic with Courses
Stress, Strain, Bending &
Hydraulic and Pneumatic
Geometric & Functional
Requirements, Theory of
Failures, Design and
Selection of Machine
Mechanics of Solid (PC)
Control of Mechanical
Design of Machine
Motion Analysis,  Force
Analysis, Gear Trains,
Cams, Dynamics of Multi-
Kinematics & Dynamics
of Machines (PC)
Advanced concepts of stress
analysis, analysis of systems
such as rotating disks, thick
Galerkin methods Finite
Mechanical vibrations of
one, two and multi degree
of freedom systems, types of
damping, vibration control
Noise control of various
Advanced Theories in
Theory of Helicopter Flight
kinematics & kinetics of
behaviours displayed by
soft materials and tissues
Product life cycle, Product
Advanced Mechanics of
Finite element Methods
and Applications (PE)
Techniques of Noise
Principles and Techniques
of Vibration Control (PE)
Helicopter Dynamics (PE)
Mechanics of Soft
Product Design and
Curves, Surfaces and Solid
Computer aided Design
Dynamics of rotating
Control Systems (PE)
Introduction to Robotics
Links, mechanisms and
dynamics in vehicles
Nonlinear phenomena and
solutions, bifurcation and
Vehicle dynamics (PE)
and Chaos (PE)
Theory of sound generation,
propagation and reception.
Introduction to Acoustics
Theory of Casting, Welding
Principles in Production &
Techniques in Machining
Science and Metrology
Principles of Smart
Principles of Digital
Casting and Allied
Welding Science and
Machining Science and
Digital Fabrication (PC)
and Systems Lab (PC)
Manufacturing Lab (PC)
Casting and Allied
Welding Science and
Design and Manufacturing
of Bio Materials
Principles of Computer
Non Traditional Machining
Tool Design Techniques
Manufacturing of Bio
Machining Process (PE)
Tool Design (PE)
Modeling and CAD in
Geometric Modeling and
Modeling and Control of
CNC Technology in
Technologies for additive
Micro systems and its
MEMS & Microsystem
Modern methods of micro-
Precision and Micro
Elements of Mechatronic
Design for Manufacturing
Fluid Statics, Kinetics,
Inviscid and Viscous Flow,
Radiation, Boiling &
Applied Ergonomics (PE)
Design for Manufacturing
Welding Metallurgy (PE)
Fundamentals of Metal
Forming Technology (PE)
Fluid Mechanics (PC)
Heat Transfer (PC)
Heat engines and Power
Refrigeration and Air-
Turbines, pumps &
Refrigeration cycles and air-
Refrigeration and Air-
Cycles in power plant and
energy conversion systems
Fluid dynamics in porous
Porous media flows and
for heat and fluid flow
Dynamics and Heat
Solar Energy systems
Solar Thermal Systems
Liquid transport in micro-
Exposer to various sensors
and equipments used in
micro system analysis
Micro-Nano Flows (PE)
Micro Fluidics Lab (PE)
Characterizing of sensors
based on nanomaterials
Nano Sensors (PE)
sources and Technologies
Fluid Flow Measurement
Measurements in various
Sources of Energy and
Fluid Mechanics Lab (PE)
Heat Transfer Lab (PE)
Thermofluids Lab (PE)
7. Course Categories, credit distribution and Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 2. ProposedCourse Categories and credit distribution in the proposed B.Tech. Programmes
Regular B.Tech.  Double B.Tech.
Institute Core (I)
Programme Core (P)
Programme Compulsory (PC)
Programme Electives (PE)
B.Tech. Project (PP)
Open Electives (OE)
Engineering Science Core
Engineering Science Elective (EE)
Design/Practical Experience (ND)
Total Graded + Non-Graded
8. Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 3. Credit Structure for B.Tech. Programmes
L-T-P  Distribution of contact and beyond contact hours
1 hour of Lecture
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Lab/Project
#Contact hour for projects refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc.
9. List of Programme Compulsory Courses
Table 4. Distribution of courses under Thermofluids, Manufacturing and Design categories
Thermofluids Engineering Lab
Mechanics of Solids
Kinematics and Dynamics of Machines
Design of Machine elements
Engineering Design I
Engineering Design II
Production & Operations Management
Machining Science and Metrology
Manufacturing Processes and Systems lab
Machining and Automated Manufacturing Lab
Table 5.Programme Vertical Compulsory Courses
Thermofluids Engineering Lab
Mechanics of Solids
Kinematics and Dynamics of Machines
Design of Machine elements
Production & Operations Management
Machining Science and Metrology
Table 6. Programme Horizontal Compulsory Courses
Control of Mechanical Systems
Data Structure and Algorithm (CS)
Contact Hours  Credit
Manufacturing Processes and Systems lab
Machining  and  Automated  Manufacturing
10. Area-wise Programme Elective Courses
Table 7. Stream-wise Programme Electives Courses
Introduction to Acoustics
Computer Aided Design
Principles of Biomechanics
Finite Element Methods and
Introduction to Robotics
(offered by IDRP on RM)
Embedded Systems (offered by
Design and Manufacturing of Bio
Computer Integrated Manufacturing
Design for Manufacturing
Refrigeration and Air-conditioning
Solar Thermal Systems
Porous media flows and applications
Power Plant Engineering
Computational Fluid Dynamics and
11. Specialization to be offered by the department
Table 8. Specializations List
Name of Specializations
Table 9. Specialization core and elective courses
1.   Micro-Nano Flows
[3-0-0,  Credit:3, 600
2.  MEMS and
Credit:4, Level: 700]
3.  Microfluidics Lab [0-
0-2, Credit:1, 600
1. Nanomaterials (MT)[3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 400]
2. Porous media flows & applications [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
3. Precision and Micro-Manufacturing [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
4. Nanosensors [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
5. Microsystems Fabrication Technology (EE) [3-0-0, Credit:3,
6. Micro-Forming Techniques [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
7. Micro-Nano Mechanics[2-0-0, Credit:2, Level: 600]
8. Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer [3-1-0,
Credit:4, 700 Level]
9. Computational Materials Science (PH)[3-0-0, Credit:3,
10. Project (3 Credits)
1. Non-Conventional Sources of Energy and Emerging
Technologies (ME) [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
2. Solar Energy and Applications  (ME) [3-0-2, Credit:4, Level:
1.  Solar Thermal
3. Wind turbine and field design (Civil)[3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
Systems (ME) [3-0-0,
Credit:3, Level: 600]
4. Energy Harvesting (PHY)[3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
5. Biomass Energy Conversion(BIO) [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
2. Power Plant
Credit:3, Level: 700]
6. Hydropower (ME)[3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
7. Building services and Intelligent building (Civil)[3-0-0,
Credit:3, Level: 700]
3. Energy Storage
Systems (ME fractals)
[2-0-0, Credit:2, Level:
8. Smart Grid (EE) [3-0-2, Credit:4, Level: 700]
9.  Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer
[3-1-0, Credit:4, 700 Level]
10. Renewable Energy Systems (EE) [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
11. Automotive Propulsion [3-0-2, Credit:4, Level: 700]
12. Combustion Technology [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
13. Materials for Energy Conversion and Storage (MT)[ 3-0-
0, Credit:3, Level: 400]
1. Advanced Mechanics
of Solid [3-0-0,
Credit:3, 700 Level]
2. Finite Element
Methods and its
Credit:3, 600 Level]
3. Optimization [1-0-0,
Credit:1, 600 Level]
4. Design Lab [0-0-2,
Credit:1, 600 Level]
Systems: CPS [3-0-0,
3.  Statistics 2: Data &
14. Conduction and Radiation [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
15. Convective Heat and Mass Transfer [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
16. Porous media flows & applications [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
17. Project Credit:3
1.  Mechanical Vibrations [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
Introduction to Acoustics [3-0-0, Credit:3, 600 level]
3.  Geometric Modeling & CAD [2-0-2, Credit:3, 700 Level]
4.  Robotics [3-0-2, Credit:4, 700 Level]
5.  Principles and Techniques of Vibration Control [3-0-0,
Credit:3, 600 level]
6.  Techniques of Noise Control[3-0-0, Credit:3, 600 level]
7.  Mechanics of Soft Materials[3-0-0, Credit:3, 600 level]
8.  Product Design & Feasibility[3-0-0, Credit:3, 600 level]
9.  Nonlinear Oscillations and Chaos [3-0-0, Credit:3, 600
10.  Experimental Modal Analysis  [3-0-2, Credit:4, 600 Level]
11.  Vehicle Dynamics  [3-0-0, Credit:3, 600 Level]
12.  Theory of vibrations  [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
13.  Rotor Dynamics  [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
14.  Helicopter Dynamics  [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
15.  Project Credit:3
1. Applied Ergonomics [3-0-0, Credit:3, 400 Level]
2. Casting and Allied Processes   [3-0-0, Credit:3, 400 Level]
3. Welding Science & Technology [3-0-2, Credit:4, 400 Level]
4. Non Traditional Machining Process [3-0-0, Credit:3, 400
5. Design for Manufacturing [3-0-0, Credit:3, 600 Level]
6. Geometric Modelling & CAD [2-0-2, Credit:3, 700 Level]
7. Robotics [3-0-2, Credit:4, 700 Level]
8. Computer-Aided Manufacturing [3-0-2, Credit:4, 700 Level]
9. Additive Manufacturing [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
10. MEMS & Microsystems Technology [3-0-2, Credit:4, 700
11. Precision and Micro Manufacturing [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700
12. Mechatronic Systems Design       [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700
13. Computer Aided Inspection & Quality Control [3-0-0,
Credit:3, 700 Level]
14. Welding Metallurgy [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
15. Fundamentals of Metal Forming Technology[3-0-0,
Credit:3, 600 Level]
16. Micro-forming Techniques [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
17. Project Credit:3
11. Curriculum of B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering (Regular)
Table 10. Curriculum of B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering
LTP  CH  NC  GC  Cat
IS  Chemistry Lab
IS  Mathematics I
IS  Mathematics II
NE  Engineering Design II
-  NH  Communication Skill
NH  Social Connect and
-  NH  Social Connect and
NH  Performing Arts I
-  NH  Performing Arts
IE  Materials  Science  &
F2: Structure of
PC  Mechanics of
Data Structure and
Signals and Systems
IH  Humanities I
Systems lab (HC)
Design of Machine
PC  Heat Transfer
PC  Digital Fabrication
PC  Heat Transfer Lab
IH  Humanities II
PC  Control of
Mechanical Systems –
-  NH  Professional Ethics II
PP  B. Tech. Project
PC  Thermofluids Lab
OE  Open Elective-1
IH  Humanities III
IH  Humanities IV
OE  Open Elective-2
3  OE  Open Elective-3
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit   9
Non-Graded Design Credits
Grand Total   1
13. Curriculum of Double B.Tech. : B.Tech. Mechanical Engineering  and Engineering Science
Table 11. Programme structure of Double B.Tech.
CH  NC  GC  Cat
CH  NC  GC
IS  Chemistry Lab
IS  Physics Lab
IS  Mathematics I
NE  Engineering Design
IS  Mathematics II
NH  Social Connect and
NH  Social Connect
NH  Performing Arts I
NH  Performing Arts
Total 11-2-12  25
ES  Probability and
F2: Structure of
ES  Modern Physics
Systems and IoT
ES  Data Structure
IE  Signals and Systems  3-1-0
IE  Machine Learning
Intro. To Profession   0-0-2
ES  Design of
ES  Modelling and
IH  Humanities I
Systems lab (H)
PC  Heat Transfer
PC  Mechanics of solids
PC  Fluid Mechanics
g Lab (HC)
PC  Heat Transfer Lab
IH  Humanities II
NH  Professional Ethics I
PP  B. Tech. Project
PC  Production &
IH  Humanities III
PC  Digital Fabrication
PC  Thermofluids Lab
Total 17-0-10  27
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit
Non-Graded Design Credits
Note: 1. ES are proposed Engineering Science compulsory courses,
* Students will be required to take 4 extra credits under Engineering Science Elective in lieu of double counting
of Embedded System and IOT
14. Detailed Course Content of Programme Compulsory Courses
Department  Mechanical Engineering/  Chemical
B.Tech (ME, CH)
Program Compulsory (PC)
The instructor will
1.  To inculcate the fundamental laws governing fluid flow
2.  Help the students to understand the importance and application of fluid mechanics.
3.  To exemplify concepts of similarity and model testing
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply fundamental knowledge in modelling and analysis of fluid flow problems in engineering
2.  Interpret data from experiments of fluid flows and solve using differential equations and charts
Introduction  [2  Lecture]:  Definition  and  properties,  continuum  approach,  types  of  fluids,  basics  of  vector
calculus and index notations.
Fluid  statics  [4  Lectures]:  Basic  equations,  Manometry,  hydrostatic  force  on  submerged  bodies,  rigid  body
Integral analysis of fluid flow [4 Lectures]:  Reynolds transport theorem, conservation equations.
Differential  analysis  [5  Lectures]:  Kinematics  of  fluids  -  Deformations  in  fluid  particle,  strain  rate,  vorticity,
stream function, potential function, streamlines, pathlines, streaklines, derivation of Navier-Stokes equations.
Incompressible  Inviscid  flow  [6  Lectures]:  Euler’s  equation,  Bernoulli’s  equation,  elementary  potential  flows,
superposition of elementary flows. Vorticity and vortex flows
Internal  Incompressible  Viscous  flow  [4  Lectures]:  Hagen-Poiseuille  and  Couette  flows,  skin  friction  and  loss
coefficients, venturimeter, orifice meter and Pitot tube.
External  Incompressible  Viscous  flow  [5  Lecture]:  Boundary  layer  over  flat  plate,  boundary  layer  thickness,
Prandtl-boundary layer equations, momentum integral equation, adverse pressure gradient & separation, drag
Dimensional analysis and similarity [2 Lectures]: Buckingham Pi theorem and examples.
Introduction to Turbulent flows [3 Lectures]: Decomposition of instantaneous velocities, time-averaged continuity
and Navier-Stokes equations, Reynolds stresses, turbulent viscosity.
Basics of Compressible flow [3 Lectures]: Acoustic waves, isentropic equations, concept of shock waves
Few Industrial Applications [4 Lectures]: Pipe networks, Flow past immersed objects, Agitation and Mixing.
1.  Fox, R. W., Pitchard, P. J and McDonald, A. T., (2010), Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, 7thEdition, John
Wiley & Sons Inc.
2.  Munson,  B.  R.,  Rothmayer,  A.  P.,  Okiishi,  T’H.,  and  Huebsch,  W.  W.  (2009),Fundamentals  of  Fluid
Mechanics, 7th Edition, John Wiley and Sons
3.  Kundu, P. K, Cohen, I. M and Dowling, D. R, (2014), Fluid Mechanics, 6th Edn., Associated Press.
4.  McCabe,  W.L.,  Smith,  J.C.,  Harriott,  P.,  (2005),  Unit  Operations  of  Chemical  Engineering,  7th  edition,
McGraw-Hill International edition.
1.  White, F. M.,(2003), Fluid Mechanics, 5thEdition,  McGraw-Hil
2.  Cimbala, J.M. and Cengel, Y.A., (2010),Fluid Mechanics: Fundamentals and Applications, McGraw-Hill
3.  Bird. R. B., Stewart, W. E. and Lightfoot, E. N., 2006, Transport Phenomena, 2nd edition, John Wiley & Sons.
4.  Panton, Ronald L - Incompressible flow, John Wiley  & Sons, 2006. Third edition is available from Wiley
1.  S. Chakrabarty, Introduction to Fluid Mechnics,  NPTEL Course Material, Mechanical Engineering, IIT
2.  V.Shankar, Fluid Mechanics,  NPTEL Course Material, Chemical Engineering, IIT Kanpur,
3.  Nishith Verma, Fluid Mechanics,  NPTEL Course Material, Chemical Engineering, IIT Kanpur,
Program Compulsory (PC)
Basics of Thermodynamics & Fluid
1.  To inculcate understanding, formulation, designing and solving problems with concepts in conduction,
convection and radiation
2.  To explain design concepts of fins, heat exchangers
3.  To introduce physical background associated with empirical correlations for heat transfer coefficients
using real world problems
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Analyze empirical situation of steady and transient conduction heat transfer
2.  Evaluate transfer coefficients in natural  and  forced  convection  in  and  out  of  control areas
3.  Assess performance of various heat exchangers
4.  Solve numerical problems related to conduction and radiation heat transfer
Introduction (1 Lectures): Modes of heat transfer, Fourier’s law, conductivity, diffusivity
Introduction to Heat conduction (3 Lectures): General  heat  conduction  equations,  1D Heat conduction, Boundary and
initial conditions, Heat generation
Steady   heat   conduction (4 Lectures): Heat   conduction   in   plane   wall,  cylinder,   sphere,   network analysis, critical
radius of insulation, heat transfer from fins
Transient heat conduction (4 Lectures): Lumped  system  analysis,  transient  heat  conduction  in  large plane walls, long
cylinders and sphere with spatial effect, Heisler and Grober charts
Introduction   to   convection (4 Lectures): Velocity   and   thermal   boundary   layer,  laminar,  turbulent  flows,  solution
of  boundary  layer  equations,  Non-dimensional numbers
External heat transfer (3 Lectures): Drag and heat transfer, parallel flow over flat plates, flow across cylinders and spheres
Internal heat transfer (4 Lectures): Mean Velocity and Temperature, Critical Reynolds number, The entrance regions,
Hydrodynamic and thermal entry lengths, fully developed flow
Natural/free  convection  (3  Lectures):  Physical  Mechanism,  Natural  convection  over  surfaces,  Criteria  for  forced  and
Boiling and condensation (3 Lectures): Boiling Curve, Nucleate boiling, film boiling, Dropwise and film condensation,
Nusselt’s theory of film condensation
Heat  Exchangers  (4  Lectures):  Classifications,  Overall  Heat  Transfer  Coefficient,  LMTD,  Effectiveness-NTU  method,
Operation Issues, Introduction to Design of Heat Exchanger
Introduction to radiation (5 Lectures): Physical Mechanism, Radiations laws, Intensity of Radiation, gray body
View factors (4 Lectures): View Factor Integral for diffuse surfaces, Radiation exchange, Electric Circuit Analogy
1.  Incropera,  F.  P.  &  Dewitt,  D.  P.,(2011),Fundamental  of  Heat  and  Mass  Transfer, John Wiley & Sons
2.  Cengel, Y. A. & Ghajar, A. J.,(2008),Heat and Mass Transfer, McGraw Hill
3.  Sukhatme S.P., (2005), A Text Book on Heat Transfer, Universities Press
1.  Holman J.P., Heat Transfer, Tata McGraw-Hill Edition, New Delhi
2.  Bejan A., Heat Transfer, Fourth Edition, John Wiley and Sons
Programme Compulsory (PC)
Basics of Thermodynamics and
1.  Introduce various energy conversion devices using fluid and thermal energy
2.  To analyses the performance of various energy conversion cycles and devices
1.  Fundamental understanding on the thermodynamics cycles used in various energy conversion systems
2.  Performance analysis of various machines used in power plants, automobiles and refrigeration systems
Introduction [2 Lectures]: Basics of Fluid Mechanics and Thermodynamics Laws
Fuels and Combustion [3 Lectures]: Introduction to combustion, Reacting systems, Stoichiometry and exhaust gas
composition, Heat of formation, Adiabatic Flame Temperature
IC Engines [5 Lectures]:  Introduction to SI and CI engines, Air standard cycle analysis, 2-S and 4-S engines, SI
& CI engine combustion, Performance and testing of SI and CI engines.
Emissions [2 Lectures]: IC engine emissions, after treatment systems, Low carbon propulsion techniques ; Steam
Power Plants [5 Lectures]: Steam power plant cycle, reheating, regeneration, co-generation, Layout of a thermal
power plant, classification of steam generators.
Gas  Turbine  Power  Plants  [5  Lectures]:  Layout  of  gas  turbine  power  plant,  Brayton  Cycle,  with  reheat,
Refrigeration Systems and Cycles [6 Lectures]: Performance parameters, Bell Coleman refrigeration cycle, Vapour
compression refrigeration, Vapour absorption system.
Psychrometry and its applications [4 Lectures]
Turbines [4 Lectures]: Euler’s equation, velocity triangle, similarity laws & specific speed, Hydraulic Turbines:
Impulse and reaction machines, Pelton-Turbine, Francis Turbine, Kaplan Turbine.
Pumps [2 Lectures]: Centrifugal pump, Performance analysis, Pump Characteristics
Compressors  and  Gas  Turbines  [4  Lectures]:  Centrifugal  Compressors,  Stalling  and  Surging,  Axial  flow
compressors, stage velocity triangles, Axial Gas Turbines.
1.  Heywood, J. B. (2004), Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals, MIT Press.
2.  El-Wakil, M.M, (1985), Power Plant Technology – Mc -Graw Hill.
3.  Stocker, W. F and Jones J. W, (1983), Refrigeration & Air Conditioning, McGraw-Hill
4.  Dixon, S.L. (2005), Fluid Mechanics & Thermodynamics of Turbomachinery, 5th edition, Elsevier.
Cimbala, J. M. and  Cengel, Y. A,  (2010), Fluid Mechanics: Fundamentals and Applications, McGraw-Hill
Heat Transfer Lab
Department  Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech (ME)
Program Compulsory (PC)
Prerequisite  Heat Transfer
The instructor will:
1.  Provide the practical knowledge with regard to the determination of rate of heat exchange in various modes
of heat transfer
2.  Provide practical exposure to various temperature measurement instruments and its working principle
1.  The students will have the ability to:
2.  Compare the performance of different convection processes
3.  Measure the heat transfer properties of various metals
4.  Understand basic laws of radiation heat transfer
5.  Measure the temperature of objects using different temperature measurement instruments
Contents (13-14 Classes)
1.  Study on Temperature distribution during 1-D heat transfer in (a) Plain Wall (b) Cylinder.
2.  Measurement of Thermal Conductivity of unknown material.
3.  Effect of Size of Plain wall on Temperature distribution and contact resistance.
4.  Demonstration of domestic solar water heating system (Time vs Temperature plots).
5.  Investigation of the influence of solar luminous intensity, the water flow rate and the angle of incidence of
the light on the efficiency and temperature difference.
6.  Study on forced and free convection heat transfer for flow over flat plate, Tube bundle and Fins.
7.  Testing the accuracy and time response of different temperature sensors (PT100, NTC, Thermocouple,
Mercury Thermometer, Gas Pressure Thermometer, Bimetallic Thermometer).
8.  Calibration of PT100 temperature sensor and derive equation of temperature as function of resistance.
9.  Calibration of K-Type thermocouple temperature sensor and derive equation of temperature as function
10. Study on validation of different radiation laws (a) Lambert’s Distance Law (b) Lambert’s Direction Law
(Cosine Law) (C) Stefan Boltzmann’s Law.
11. Study on Heat Exchangers (a) Parallel Flow and (b) Counter Flow
12. Lab Course Project
1.  Incropera,  F.  P.  &  Dewitt,  D.  P.,(2011),Fundamental  of  Heat  and  Mass  Transfer, John Wiley & Sons
2.  Cengel, Y. A. & Ghajar, A. J.,(2008),Heat and Mass Transfer, McGraw Hill
3.  Sukhatme S.P., (2005), A Text Book on Heat Transfer, Universities Press
Fluid Mechanics Lab
Department  Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech (ME)
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  To introduce various forms of flow measuring devices and techniques
2.  To provide hands on experience on in the area of experimental fluid mechanics
The students will have:
1.  Ability to design experimental methods for fluid flow problems
2.  Ability to interpret data from experiments of fluid flows and usage of charts and hand books
Contents (13-14 Classes)
1.  Determination  of  head  loss  in  pipes  having  different  diameters,  different  materials  and  different
2.  Determination of pressure drop at different types of bends and valves
3.  Reynolds apparatus to measure critical Reynolds number for pipe flows
4.  Measurement of Cp distribution on a cylinder
5.  Wake survey experiments in a flow over a cylinder
7.  Wind tunnel calibration using Pitot static tube
8.  Working  principle  of  different  flow  meters  (orifice  plate,  venture  meter,  turbine,  Rota  meter,
Impact of jet on flat and curved plates
electromagnetic flow meter)
9.  Effect of change in cross section and application of the Bernoulli equation
10.  Flow measurement around an object or blockage using PIV techniques
11.  Class projects for designing and measurement of simple fluid mechanics experiments
1.   Fox,  R.  W.,  Pitchard,P.  J.,and McDonald,  A.  T., (2010), Introduction to Fluid Mechanics, 7thEdition, John
Wiley & Sons Inc.
2.  Cimbala, J.M.,  Cengel, Y. A. (2010),Fluid Mechanics: Fundamentals and Applications, McGraw-Hill
B. Tech (ME)
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  To provide hands on training on the operation of  the different energy conversion devices
2.  To enable practical visualization of complex energy conversion processes
The students will have:
1.  Ability to interpret data from experiments on energy conversion and usage of charts and hand books
2.  To enable novel designs for new generation ThermoFluids technologies of hybrid and non-hybrid
Contents (13-14 Classes)
1.  Performance characteristics of Pelton turbine
2.  Performance characteristics of Francis turbine
3.  Performance characteristics of Centrifugal pump
4.  Performance analysis of Pumps in series and parallel
5.  Vapor absorption refrigeration
6.  Vapor compression refrigeration
7.  Ventilation experimentation facility and analysis
8.  Compresses air vortex tube
9.  Steam jet refrigeration Engine performance, Morse test
10. Emission measurements
11. Investigation of flames and spray structure
1.  Heywood, J.B. (1988). Internal Combustion Engine Fundamentals.
2.  Ei-Wakil,M.M, (1985),Power Plant Technology, Tata McGraw-Hill
3.  Jordan, R. C. & Priester, G. B., (2003), Refrigeration & Air conditioning, Prentice Hall of India
4.  Sheperd, D. G., (1983),Principles of Turbomachinery, Mac Millan
Mechanics of Solids
Programme Compulsory (PC)
1.  To inculcate fundamental concepts of stress, strain and deformation of solids
2.  Fundamental  of  applying  equilibrium,  compatibility  and  forced  deformation  relationships  to  structural
1.  Apply the fundamentals to analyze structural members
2.  Physical insight into distribution of stresses and strains in structural members
3.  Ability  to  design  structural  members  using  dimensions,  force-displacement  relationships,  boundary
conditions, loading and allowable stress
Stress and strain [10 Lectures]: Concept of stress at a point, Plane stress case: transformation of stresses at a point,
principal  stresses  and  Mohr's  circle,  Displacement  field,  Concept  of  strain  at  a  point,  Plane  strain  case:
transformation of strain at a point, principal strains and Mohr's circle, Strain Rosette, Polar coordinates in stress
and strain analysis. St. Venant’s principles and stress concentrations
Mechanical behaviour [8 Lectures]: Concepts of elasticity, plasticity, strain hardening, failure (fracture/yielding),
Generalized  Hooke's  law  (without  and  with  thermal  strains)  for  isotropic  materials,  orthotropic  and
anisotropic materials, Force displacement relationship and geometric compatibility for axially loaded members
and thin walled pressure vessels
Static  Analysis[5  Lectures]:  Complete  equations  of  elasticity;  Force  analysis  (axial  force,  shear  force,  bending
moment, and twisting moment diagrams) of slender members
Elastic Bending[5 Lectures]: Moment curvature relationship for  pure  bending of beams with symmetric cross
section, bending stress, shear stress; Cases of combined stresses, Deflection due to bending, Integration of the
moment curvature relationship for simple boundary conditions, Stress concentrations
Elastic torsion[5 Lectures]: Torsion of circular shafts and thin walled tubes, Stress concentrations
Strain Energy[5 Lectures]: Concept of strain energy, strain energy for simple structural elements, Castigliano's
theorems for deflection analysis and indeterminate problems;
Elastic Buckling [4 Lectures]: Concept of elastic instability, Introduction to column buckling, Euler's formula
1. Crandall, S.H., Dahl, N.C., and Lardner, T. J., (1978), An Introduction to the Mechanics of Solids, McGraw Hill,
Second Ed. with SI Units.
2. Beer, F.P, Johnston, E.R. and De Wolf, J.T., (2004), Mechanics of Materials, Tata McGrawHill.
3. Popov, E.P., (1990),Engineering Mechanics of Solids, First Ed. Prentice Hall
4. Meriam, J.L. and Kraige, L.G., (1980), Engineering Mechanics, Vol. 1: Statics, 2nd Ed. John Wiley
5. Timoshenko, S.P. and Goodier, J.N. ``Theory of Elasticity``, McGraw-Hill, International Edition, 1970.
Self Learning Materials:
Kinematics and Dynamics of Machines
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  To cover the kinematics and dynamics of planar single degree freedom mechanisms
2.  To develop skills for designing and analyzing linkages,  cams,  gears and other mechanisms
3.  To teach students concepts of Newtonian dynamic analysis of mechanisms and machines
1.  To analyze position,  velocity and acceleration kinematics  of mechanisms
2.  Evaluation of forces and torques in mechanism and machines in operation
3.  To understand the implication of computed results to improve design of machines
Part I: Kinematics [21 Lectures]
Kinematics  and  Mechanism  [2  Lectures]:  Links,  Kinematic  pairs,  Kinematics  diagram  and  inversion,  mobility,
range of movements, Equivalent linkage
Motion  characteristics  of  Mechanism  [5  Lectures]:  Displacement  analysis  of  planar  mechanisms  analytical
methods,  Plane  motion  of  a  rigid  body,  Velocity  analysis:  analytical  and  Instantaneous  Centre  of  Velocity
methods,  Coriolis component of acceleration, Acceleration analysis
Mechanism Synthesis [4 Lectures]:  Function, Path, and Motion Generation, Three Position Dimensional Synthesis
Cam  follower  mechanism  [5  Lectures]:  Classification  of  Cam  and  followers,  nomenclature,  description  and
analysis of follower motion, pressure angle, Determine of basic dimensions and synthesis of cam profiles
Gear  and  gear  train  [5  Lectures]:    Spur  gears  and  gear  terminology,  Fundamental  law  of  gearing,    Involute
profile,  Interference  and  undercutting,  Minimum  number  of  teeth,  Contact  ratio,  Helical  gears  on  parallel
shafts, Bevel helical, Spiral and Worm gears.  Simple, compound, epicyclic gear trains, planetary gear trains.
Part I: Dynamics [21 Lectures]
Introduction to Dynamics [2 Lectures]:  Dynamics lumped-parameter models of mechanical systems, Newton’s
Law,  Inertia and D Alembert Principle, Energy Method
Dynamics  of  Rigid  bodies  [6  Lectures]:  Solution  Methods:  superposition  and  simultaneous  equation  solution,
Newtonian Approach, Shaking force and Shaking Moments, Applications to  Linkage and Single and Multi-
cylinder engines, Controlling Input Torque - Flywheel Design
Balancing  [5  Lectures]:  Static  unbalance,  static  balancing  machines,    dynamics  balancing,    applications  to
balancing of linkage, single and multi-cylinder engines
Vibration Analysis [4]: Introduction, Basic features of vibratory systems, single degree freedom systems
Dynamics of Cams [3 Lectures]: Rigid and elastic body cam system, analysis of eccentric cams, analysis of elastic
cam systems, lumped models of cams and vibration analysis.
Gyroscope [1 Lecture]: Gyroscopic Torque
Laboratory Classes (12 Classes)
Experimental: Coriolis Acceleration, Gear Trains, Static and Dynamic Balancing, Vibration Analysis,
Gyroscope, Cam Dynamics
Matlab-based: Analytical Position, Velocity and Acceleration Analyses, Synthesis of CAM, Force analysis
using Newtonian solution approach -  simultaneous equation solution
1.  Ghosh, A.  & Mallik, A.  K., (2009), Theory of Mechanisms, and Machines, 3rd Edition, East West Press
2.  Norton, R. L., (2009), Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery, Tata McGraw Hill
3.  Uicker, J. J., Pennock, G. R. and Shigley, J. E., (2009), Theory of Machines and Mechanisms,  3rd Edition,
Oxford University Press
4.  Waldron, K. J. & Kinzel, G. L., (2004), Kinematics, Dynamics and Design of Machinery, 2nd Edition,  Wiley
5.  Thomson, W. T., Theory of Vibrations with Applications, CBS Publishers & Distributors
6.  Paul, B., Kinematics and Dynamics of Planar Mechanisms’, Prentice Hall, 1979.
1.  Ashok K Mallik, Kinematics of Machines, NPTEL Course,  Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT
Kanpur, Link: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112104121/
2.  Amitabh Ghosh, Dynamics of Machines, NPTEL Course,  Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT
Kanpur, Link: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112/104/112104114/
Design of Machine Elements  Number
Programme Compulsory (PC)
Basic knowledge in Mechanics
1. Understand the nomenclature and selection of machine elements
2.  To  be  able  to  design  machine  components  taking  into  consideration  stress  concentration,  failure  and
1. Understanding  different types of failure  modes  of machine  components  and their role  in engineering
2. To compare the design options  involving  various machine elements used in the machine design process
and to graphically represent them using computer aided design software
Introduction to Engineering Design[5 Lectures]: Life cycle approach to Design, Mechanical Engineering Design,
Design Considerations, Design Methods, Engineering Materials and their Mechanical properties Use, types
of codes & standards in Design, Selection of preferred sizes, Behavior of Ductile & Brittle material, Stress-
Strain Diagram for various materials. Material selection  in design
Design for strength [5 Lectures]: Failure Criteria such as Maximum Normal and Shear Stress theory, Distortion
Stress Concentration [4 Lectures]: Stress concentration  factor,  Stresses in members subjected to axial, shear,
Bending, Torsional & Eccentric loading, Fatigue Failure, Endurance Limit & Strength.
Design of members [5 Lectures]: Problems on design of members for finite & infinite life in members subjected
to individual & combined loading.
Design of shaft and couplings [5 Lectures]: Types, Design of solid & hollow shaft on strength and rigidity basis
with steady loading subjected to pure torsion. Design of shafts carrying pulleys & gears (Combined loading).
ASME  Code  for  shaft  design.    Selection  and  design  of  Keys,  Cotter  &  Knuckle  Joints  and  couplings.
Classification and Selection of Bearings.
Design of Riveted, Bolted and Welded joints [5 Lectures]
Design of Helical springs [3 Lectures]
Classification and selection steps for main components of belt, rope and chain drives [4 Lectures]
Classification, application and design consideration of clutches and brakes [4 Lectures]
Laboratory Classes [12 Classes]
1.  Experimental sessions on machine drawing exercises (sketching and on CAD software)
2.  Design project
1. Shigley, J. E., Mischke, C., Nisbett, K., and Richard, B., (2008), Mechanical Engineering Design, McGraw Hill
2. Spotts, M. F. & Shamp, T. E., (2003), Design of Machine Elements, Prentice Hall
3. Sidheswar, K. N, & Sastry, P. V. V. V., (1997), Machine Drawing, Tata McGraw Hill
4.  Cencil  Jensen,  Jay  D.  Helsel,  Dennis  R.  Short,  (2012),  Engineering  Drawing  &  Design,  7th    Edition,  TATA
5.  Mahadevan,  K.,  Reddy,K.B.  (2013),  Design  Data  Handbook  for  Mechanical  Engineers,  CBS  Publishers  &
6. Dieter, Engineering Design, 4th Ed., McGraw-Hill, 2013.
Control of Mechanical Systems
B. Tech (ME)
Basic Knowledge of Systems
1.  Familiarize with methods to characterize dynamical behaviour of a mechanical system using the models
2.  Provide an understanding of the basic concepts of control theory.
3.  Provide a basic understanding of implementing control laws.
1.  Develop necessary mathematical models from the knowledge of the mechanical engineering discipline,
and become familiar with various strategies for their representation and solution
2.  Ability to design control systems for LTI systems and implementation using embedded hardware.
Part I: System Modeling and Response [14]
Introduction to Modelling & Representation [5 Lectures]: Objective, basic modelling concepts & types of models,
Models of simple mechanical systems, linearization of nonlinear  models, Transfer  Function Modeling of
LTI systems, block diagram representation and manipulation, signal flow graphs.
Basic Characteristics of Feedback System [4 Lectures]: Properties of feedback systems, sensitivity analysis, effect
of control gain on system performance, effect of disturbances on system performance.
Response & Stability Analyses [5 Lectures]: Test signals, response of 1st and 2nd order, as well as, higher-order
systems, poles and zeros and its effect on system response, Stability criteria, BIBO stability, Routh’s stability
Part II: Control of Mechanical Systems [14]
Introduction to Control [2 Lectures]: Control objectives, introduction to control problem, open/ closed-loop
control and structures.
Root- Locus and Compensator Design [6 Lectures]: Concept of root locus; use of control gain to change pole locations,
design of lag, lead and lag-lead compensators using root locus techniques, PI, PD and PID controller design
Applications of control to Mechanical Systems [4 Lectures]: Practical aspect of control implementation  - Actuators,
sensors; Temperature control, Flow control, Pressure and Force control, Vehicle Active Suspension Control,
Implementation of Control Law [2 Lecturer]: Discretization of control law, Difference equation, computational
aspect of control law
Part III Embedded Hardware for Control Implementation [14 Lectures ]
Introduction  to  Embedded  Processors  [08  Lectures]:  Concept  of  Processors;  Microprocessors  and
Microcontrollers, Architecture of ARM M0 processors, Memory Interfacing, Memory-mapped peripherals,
peripherals like GPIOs, Timers, analog inputs.
Programming  of  Embedded  Processor  [06  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  Arm  Mbed  development
environment, use of  Arm Mbed for programming Embedded processors, digital I/Os and analog I/Os
interface. Implementing PI, PID controllers using embedded processors
Laboratory Classes (12 Classes)
1.  Control simulation of different systems i.e. temperature control, robot control using MATLAB as a tool
[3 Lab classes]
2.  Experiments on DC servo position control, inverted pendulum, helicopter emulator system, Active
suspension, robot control [6 Lab classes]
3.  Controller implementation using embedded hardware, interfacing sensors and actuators and
implementation of PI [3 Lab classes]
1.  Nise, N.S. (2014), Control Systems Engineering, 6th Edition, John-Wiley India,  2014
2.   G.  F.  Franklin,  J.  D.  Powell and A.  E.  Emami-Naeini (2002),  Feedback Control of Dynamic Systems;
Prentice Hall Inc.,
3.  Perry Xiao., (2018), Designing Embedded Systems and the Internet of Things (IoT) with the ARM®
Mbed™, John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
1.  Ogata, K. (2012), Modern Control Engineering, 5th Edition, Prentice-Hall India, 2012,
2.  Gopal, M. (2000), Control Systems - Principles & Design, 3rdEdition, Tata McGraw-Hill, 2015
3.   Dorf, R.C. & Bishop, R.H. (2008), Modern Control Systems, 11th Edition, Pearson, 200
1.  Gopal, M.,  Control Engineering, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian
Institute of Technology  Delhi,   https://nptel.ac.in/courses/108102043/
2.  Ramkrishna Pasumarthy R., Control Engineering, NPTEL Course Material Department of Electrical
Engineering, IIT Madras, Link: https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc17_ee12/preview
B. Tech (ME)
Program Compulsory (PC)
The Instructor will:
1.  Impart fundamental understanding of various casting, welding and forming processes.
2.  Discuss design methodology and process parameters involve in obtaining defect free component.
3.  Discuss tools, techniques and equipment involved in casting, welding and forming processes.
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Select appropriate  primary manufacturing process and related parameters for  obtaining initial shape
and size of components.
2.  Design and develop adequate tooling linked with casting, welding and forming operations.
Module 1: Metal Casting Processes [14 Lecture]:
Introduction to Casting [3 Lectures]: Casting Terminology, Types of pattern and allowances, Applications and
Design of various parts [4 Lecture]: Riser and Gating system design, Design principles for mould cavity.
Solidification [3 Lecture]: Metal flow and solidification; solidification and cooling of casting.
Types  of  casting  process  and  defects  [4  Lecture]:  Expendable  and  Permanent  Mould  Casting  Processes,  Die
casting and centrifugal casting, Casting defects and inspection of castings.
Module 2: Welding [14 Lecture]:
Introduction to Joining Processes [3 Lecture]: Basic requirements and classification of welding processes; Arc
Welding Processes, Arc welding principle, Welding power source and its characteristics.
Arc Welding Processes [4 Lecture]: TIG&MIG processes and their parameters; Introduction to other welding
processes such as submerged arc welding (SAW), shielded metal arc welding (SMAW)
Advance welding processes [3 Lecture]:Resistance welding processes,  friction stir welding (FSW).
Weldability and thermal aspects [3 Lecture]: Concept of weldability of materials; Thermal Effects in Welding
(Distortion, shrinkage and residual stresses in welded structures); Welding defects and remedies.
Allied processes [1 Lecture]: Soldering and Brazing.
Module 3: Metal Forming Processes [14 lecture]:
Introduction  of  metal  forming  process  [5  Lecture]:  Mechanical  behavior  of  metals  in  elastic  and  plastic
deformation,  stress-strain  relationships,  Yield  criteria,  Application  to  tensile  testing,  train  rate  and
temperature in metal working;  Hot deformation, Cold working and annealing.
Metal Working Processes [5 lecture]: Fundamentals of metal working, Analysis of bulk forming processes like
forging, rolling, extrusion, wire drawing by slab method,
Other sheet metal processes [4 Lecture]: Sheet metal forming processes (Die and punch assembly, Blanking,
piercing, bending etc., Compound and Progressive die), High Energy rate forming processes.
1.  Ghosh, A. and Mallik, A. K., (2017), Manufacturing Science, East-West Press.
2.  Parmar R. S., (2007), Welding Processes and Technology, Khanna Publishers.
1.  Heine, R. W., Loper, C. R., and Rosenthal, P. C., (2008), Principles of Metal Casting, Tata McGraw Hill.
2.  Conne, L. P., (1989), Welding Handbook- Welding Technology Part-1, American Welding Society.
3.  Black, S. C., Chiles, V, Lissaman, A. J., and Martin, S. J., (1996),  Principles of Engineering Manufacture,
4.  Groover, M. P., (2011), Introduction to Manufacturing Processes, Wiley.
5.  Kalpakjian, S., and Schmid, S. R., (2001), Manufacturing Engineering and Technology, Pearson.
6.  Riggs, J. L., (1976), Production System-Planning Analysis and Control, John Wiley.
1.  D. B. Karunakar, Metal Casting,  NPTEL Course Department of Mechanical and Industrial
Engineering, IIT Roorkee, Link: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112107083/
2.  P. Biswas, Fundamental of Welding Science and Technology, Department of Mechanical Engineering,
IIT Guwahati,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112107083/
3.  P. K. Jha, Principles of Metal Forming Technology, Department of Mechanical and Industrial
Engineering, IIT Roorkee, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112107250/
Machining Science and Metrology
B. Tech (ME)
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  Impart  fundamental  understanding  of  various  conventional  and  non-conventional  machining
2.  Discuss various measuring and gauging techniques used for inspection of machined components.
3.  Discuss various techniques for improvement and assessment of the surface finish.
1.  Appreciate theories of material removal associated with conventional and non-conventional machining
2.  Understand various aspects related with finishing and super-finishing processes.
3.  Apply different inspection techniques to assess the dimensional accuracy of machined components.
Module 1: Conventional Machining Processes [17 Lecture]:
Introduction [1 Lecture]: Machining Process; Basic working principle of conventional machining processes.
Tool  and  Chip  formation  [4  Lecture]:  Configuration,  Specification  and  Classification  of  machine  tools;
Mechanics  of  Metal  Cutting:  Geometry  of  single  point  cutting  tools;  Mechanism  of  chip  formation;
Orthogonal and oblique cutting.
Force  and  temperature  analysis  [5  Lecture]:  Analysis  of  machining  forces  and  power  requirement;  Causes,
effects and control of cutting temperature; Application of cutting fluids.
Machinability and tool life [3 Lecture]: Machinability concept; Tool Wear; Failure of cutting tools and tool life;
Cutting Tool Materials; Economics of metal cutting.
Finishing process [4 Lecture]: Finishing and Super-Finishing Processes: Purpose and application of grinding;
Selection of grinding wheels and their conditioning methods; Specific energy and power requirement in
grinding; Super-finishing processes such as Honing, Lapping etc.
Module 2: Advanced Machining Processes [15 Lecture]:
Introduction  [2  Lecture]:  Comparison  of  non-conventional  and  conventional  methods  of  machining;
Classification of the processes; Advantages, limitations and applications.
Mechanical  Processes  [7  Lecture]:  Abrasive  Jet  Machining  Process,  process  parameters  effect  on  material
removal  rate,  Water  Jet  Machining  (WJM)  process;  Abrasive  Water  Jet  Machining  (AWJM)  process;
Ultrasonic Machining (USM), Material removal in USM.
Thermo-electric Processes [7 Lecture]: Electric Discharge Machining (EDM); Use of LASERs in machining and
Laser Beam Machining, Electron Beam Machining (EBM) and Plasma Machining (PM).
Electrochemical Processes [2 Lecture]: Electroplating and reverse-electroplating; Electro Chemical Machining
Module 3: Metrology [10 Lecture]:
Introduction  [3  Lecture]:  Introduction  to  metrology  and  its  relevance;  Standardization;  Limits,  fits  and
tolerances, tolerance grades.
Measurement [7 Lecture]: Measurement of linear and angular dimensions; Measurement of geometric error
such  as  straightness,  flatness,  parallelism,  squareness,  circularity  and  roundness;  Surface  Metrology:
Surface topography definitions, Measurement of surface texture, Methods for measurement.
1.  Shaw, M C, (2014), Metal Cutting Principles, Oxford University Press.
2.  McGeough, J A, (1988), Advanced Methods of Machining, Springer.
3.  Mitutoyo, (2015), Metrology Handbook, Mitutoyo.
1.  Chattopadhyay, A B, (2013), Machining and Machine Tools, Wiley India.
2.  Galyer, J F W, Shotbolt, C R, (1990), Metrology for Engineers, Cassell.
3.  Boothroyd, G., and Knight, W. A., (1932), Fundamentals of Machining and MAchine Tools, CRC Press.
1.  V. K. Jain, Advanced Machining Processes, NPTEL Course Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT
Kanpur, Link: http://nptel.ac.in/courses/112104028/.
2.  M. S. Shunmugam, Metrology, NPTEL Course Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Madras,
3.  U. S. Dixit, Mechanics of Machining, NPTEL Course Department of Mechanical Engineering
Guwahati, Link: http://nptel.ac.in/courses/112103248/.
4.   A. B. Chattopadhyay, Manufacturing Processes II, NPTEL Course of Department of Mechanical
Engineering, IIT Kharagpur,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112/105/112105126/.
Productions and Operations Management  Number
B. Tech (ME)
The Instructor will:
1.    Familiarize  students  with  basic  concepts,  techniques  and  algorithms  that  help  in  optimizing  the
performance of manufacturing systems
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the need of developing mathematical models of conflicting situations and analyze the same;
2.  Select rational options in practical decision-making problems using various techniques and algorithms.
Module 1: Introduction (14 Lecture)
Introduction  [2  Lecture]:  System  concept  of  manufacturing;  Types  of  manufacturing  systems;  Concept  of
Linear  Programming  [6  Lecture]:  Introduction  to  Linear  Programming  Problem  (LPP);  Formulation  of
mathematical model; Applications of LPP; Solution techniques for LPP such as graphical method, simplex
method and its variants; Special issues in LPP e.g. degeneracy, multiple optimum solutions, infeasibility,
unbounded feasible region; Sensitivity analysis.
Transportation  problem  and  Assignment  Problem  [6  Lecture]:  Transportation  problem  and  its  applications;
Solution  methods  for  transportation  problem;  Transhipment  problem;  Assignment  problem  and  its
applications; Solution techniques for assignment problem; Traveling salesman problem.
Module 2: Inventory Management (14 Lecture)
Introduction  [3  Lecture]:  Basic  concept  and  terminology;  Inventory  classification  and  inventory  costs;
Concept of Economic Order Quantity.
Deterministic inventory models [3 Lecture]: Probabilistic inventory models; ABC analysis.
Project  Management  [1  Lecture]:  Introduction  and  terms  used  in  project  management;  Construction  of
PERT/CPM [4 Lecture]:Deterministic network model - CPM; Probabilistic network model – PERT; Crashing
of network; Resource leveling and smoothing techniques.
Waiting  Line  Models  [3  Lecture]:Introduction  and  terms  used  in  queuing  models;  Kendall’s  notations;
Classification of queuing models; Mathematical analysis of queuing system using various models; Queuing
Module 3: Forecasting (14 Lecture)
Forecasting  [4  Lecture]:  Nature  and  use  of  forecast;  various  forecasting  models;  Measure  of  forecasting
accuracy; Selection of forecasting techniques.
Material  Management  [4  Lecture]:Product  design  considerations,  Product  development,  Detailing,  Value
Engineering and its role in product design and cost rationalization, IPR.
Maintenance Management [3 Lecture]:  Objectives,  Nature of maintenance problems,  Maintenance strategies,
Organization,  Maintenance Information Systems,  Spare Parts Management,  Maintenance Cost Control,
Introduction to Total Productive Maintenance.
Work  study  [3  Lecture]:Purpose  and  scope,    Productivity  and  work-study,    Method  Study  and  Work
Measurement;  Engineering  economy  and  costing:Fixed  cost,  variable  cost,  introduction  to  break  even
1.  Buffa E S and Sarin R K, (1987), Modern Production/Operations Management, Wiley.
2.  Taha H A, (2010), Operations Research: An Introduction, Pearson.
1.  Sen R, (2016), Operations Research, Prentice Hall.
2.  Hiller F S and Liberman G J, (2005), Introduction to Operations Research, McGraw Hill.
3.  Pai J K, (2010), Operations Research, Oxford University Press.
1.  G Srinivasan, Operations Research, NPTEL Course Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Madras,
2.  A Kanda, Project and Production Management, NPTEL Course Department of Mechanical Engineering,
IIT Delhi, Link: http://nptel.ac.in/courses/112102106/
Department  Mechanical Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
The instructor will:
1.  discuss various techniques involved for the digital presentation of objects
2.  cover  fundamentals  of  various  digital  manufacturing  processes  (additive  and  subtractive)  and
inspection technologies to demonstrate its potential in modern manufacturing industries
3.  introduce concepts of smart manufacturing and Industry 4.0 in manufacturing industries
The students will have the ability to:
1.  develop and manipulate digital models of physical objects
2.  program and execute various operations on digital subtractive and additive manufacturing processes
3.  appreciate the recent manufacturing trends related to Industry 4.0 and its implementation
Digital design (14 Lectures):
Geometric design [7 Lectures]:Geometric design of curves, surfaces and solids
Shape digitization[7 Lectures]: 3-D object scanning, solid reconstruction from point cloud and tessellated data
Digital manufacturing (14 lectures):
Subtractive manufacturing [5 Lectures]:
Basic  programming  architecture  [5  Lectures]:  Control  hardware  and  software  details,  Tooling,  sculptured
Additive Manufacturing [4 Lectures]: Introduction to various processes, capabilities and limitations, various
applications of AM
Introduction of Industry 4.0 (14 lectures):
Introduction to Smart Manufacturing [7 Lectures]: IoT applications in Manufacturing, Cloud applications in
Introduction  to  Computer  Aided  Process  Planning  (CAPP)[7  Lectures]:  Algorithms  for  CAPP,  CAD-CAM
development, Industry 4.0 applications in Product Development
1.  Zeid, I and Subramanian R, (2010), CAD/CAM Theory and Practice, Tata McGraw Hill.
2.  Smid P., (2005), CNC Programming Handbook, Industrial Press.
3.  Gibson I, Rosen D W, Stucker B, (2015), Additive Manufacturing Technologies: Rapid Prototyping to Direct
Digital Manufacturing, Springer.
1.  Chua C K, Leong K F, Lim C S, (2012), Rapid Prototyping, World Scientific.
2.  Marciniak K, (2006), Geometric Modeling for Numerically Controlled Machining, Oxford University Press
1.  Asimava Roy Choudhury, CNC Machine Tools and Processes, NPTEL Course Material Department of
Mechanical Engineering, IIT Guwahati, Link: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112105211/
2.  John Hart, Additive Manufacturing, MIT Online courseware, Link:
Manufacturing Processes and Systems Lab
Department  Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech (ME)
Fundamentals of Manufacturing Processes and Systems
The instructor will:
1.  demonstrate  concepts  related  with  primary  manufacturing  processes  by  conducting  various  practical
familiarize students with various simulation tools involved in manufacturing processes and systems
3.  explain the software tools and skills required for optimization of manufacturing systems
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the effect of process parameters on quality of manufactured components
2.  Use various simulation tools and software for designing manufacturing processes and systems
Contents (13-14 classes)
1.  Studying the effect of the clay and moisture content on sand mold properties
2.  Derivation of cooling curve and mold thermal gradient using thermocouple and data acquisition system
3.  Studying the effect of welding process parameters on bead profile using image processing system
4.  Analysing the problem of heat balance using resistance spot welding setup
5.  Effect of interface lubrication and temperature on bulk deformation characteristics using hydraulic press
6.  Sheet metal punch/die design and layout optimization
7.  Solving linear programming problems using LINGO software
8.  Demonstration of  material flow and solidification simulation using Auto-Cast software
9.  Derivation of isotherms and estimation of bead profile using Ansys Software
10.  Development  of  computational  tool  using  Microsoft  excel  for  solving  transportation/Assignment  and
Inventory management problem.
1.  Laboratory manual of various equipment.
2.  Reveillac J, (2017), Operational research using the spread sheet. Wiley.
Machining and Automated Manufacturing Lab  Number
Department  Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech (ME)
Program Compulsory (PC)
Fundamentals of Manufacturing Processes and
The instructor will:
1.  Demonstrate  concepts  related  with  conventional  and  non-conventional    machining  processes  by
conducting various practical exercises
2.  Demonstrate various inspection technologies to examine dimensional control of components
3.  Discuss manual and automated programming of CNC machine tools
4.  Demonstrate steps related to additive manufacturing of components
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the effect of process parameters on quality of machined components
2.  Use various simulation tools and software related to machining processes
3.  Build and inspect components fabricated using additive processes
4.  Generate and execute part programs for CNC machine tools
Contents (13-14 classes)
1.  Effect of process parameters on machinability and surface characteristics of machined components
2.  Measurement of cutting forces and analysing effect of process parameters in machining operation
3.  Analysing machining characteristic of hard materials using Laser Beam Machining
4.  Demonstration of hybrid machining concept using Ultrasonic Machining set up
5.  Study of machinability characteristics of various materials using DEFORM software
6.  Manual part programming using CNC turning simulator
7.  Manual part programming using CNC milling simulator
8.  Generation of CNC part programs and CAD/CAM integration
9.  Demonstration of process flow in Additive Manufacturing and discussion of case studies
10.  Measurement of freeform geometries using contact and noncontact inspection systems
1.  Shaw M C, (2015), Metal Cutting Principles, Oxford University Press.
2.  Smid P., (2005), CNC Programming Handbook, Industrial Press.
3.  Chua C K, Leong K F, Lim C S, (2012), Rapid Prototyping, World Scientific.
Program Compulsory (PC)
The instructor will:
Introduce students to the fundamentals of smart manufacturing and Industry 4.0
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate concepts and basic framework necessary for smart manufacturing
2.  Develop understanding about harnessing smartness into manufacturing processes from the data
Introduction  [5  Lecture]:  Introduction  to  manufacturing  processes  and  systems;  Industrial  revolutions,
Background and concept of smart manufacturing.
Models and key technologies for smart technologies [3 Lecture]
Automated  manufacturing  processes  [6  lectures]:  Elements  of  smart  manufacturing  process;  sensing  elements
and IoT technologies; data-driven models.
Decision making systems [4 Lecture]: Decision making systems, Case Studies.
Automated manufacturing systems:
Concept  of  mass  production  [5  Lecture]:  Precision  manufacturing,  flexible  manufacturing  and  agile
manufacturing; Concept of edge, fog and cloud computing in manufacturing
Big data and services in  smart manufacturing [5 Lecture]: AR, VR and Mixed  Reality in Manufacturing, Case
1.  Wang L, and Vincent W X, (2019), Cloud Based Cyber-Physical Systems in Manufacturing, Springer.
2.  Tao F, Zhang M, and Nee A Y C, (2019), Digital Twin Driven Smart Manufacturing, Academic Press.
Jeschke S, Brecher C, Song H, and Rawat D B, (2017), Industrial Internet of Things – Cyber manufacturing Systems,
MIT Online Course on Smart Manufacturing: https://professional.mit.edu/course-catalog/smart-
15. Detailed Course Content of Programme Elective Courses
Programme Elective (PE)
Basics  of  Fluid  Mechanics  and
1.  To teach about different types of turbomachines used in energy transformations
2.  To introduce basic principles and equation governing the  steady and unsteady fluid flow  associated with
3.  To impart knowledge of designing turbines vanes using velocity triangles
1.  To analyse the flow behaviour which depends on the geometric configuration of various turbomachines
2.  Identify and analyse the thermal cycles related to turbomachines
3.  Turbo-machine stage characterization using various design parameters
Introduction  [3  Lectures]:Classifications,  Eulers  equation  of  Turbomachines,  Concept  of  velocity  triangles,
Expression of Eulers equation showing the components of energy transfer
Dimensional analysis of incompressible Turbomachines [3 Lectures]: Similarity laws and model testing., concept of
specific speed and specific diameter, affinity laws, unit quantities
Hydraulics  Turbines  [5  Lectures]:Impulse  and  reaction  machines,  Analysis  of  Pelton-Turbine,  efficiencies,
performance characteristics, Analysis of Francis Turbine, Analysis of Kaplan Turbine.
Centrifugal  Pumps  [5  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  pumping  systems,  Centrifugal  pumps  working  principle,
Efficiencies, losses, operating characteristics, pumps in series and parallel, NPSH, priming and cavitation.
Compressible flow Turbomachines [6 Lectures]:Introduction to compressible flows, flow choking, review of T-S and
H-S diagrams of gas turbines and compressors, efficiencies, effect of reheat and preheat. Dimensional analysis
of compressible flow machines. Lift and drag, blade cascading concept
Centrifugal Compressors [5 Lectures]: Centrifugal compressors, construction, flow analysis, performance analysis,
stalling and surging.
Axial Compressors and Turbines [5 Lectures]: Axial flow compressors, construction details, stage velocity triangles,
degree of reaction, stage pressure rise, stage pressure coefficient, stage efficiency, Axial Turbines.
Steam turbines [4 Lectures]: Overview, impulse turbine, speed ratio, idea of velocity and pressure compounding.
Reaction stages-50% and 100% reaction
Fans  and  blowers  [4  Lectures]:  Axial  fans:  velocity  triangle,  stage  parameters,  performance  characteristics
Centrifugal fan: velocity triangle, stage parameters and performance characteristics.
Turbomachines used in power transmission[2 Lectures]: Fluid coupling, Torque converter
1. Dixon, S. L., (2005), Fluid Mechanics & Thermodynamics of Turbomachinery, 5th Edition, Elsevier Science
2. Cohen, H., Rogers, G. F. C., and Saravanamuttoo, H. I. H., Gas Turbine Theory, Longman Publishing Group
1. Sheperd, D. G., Principles of Turbomachinery, Mac Millan
2. Kearton, W. J., Steam Turbine Theory and Practice, CBS Publishers & Distributors
Refrigeration and Air-conditioning
Programme Elective (PE)
Basic Knowledge in Thermodynamics,
To study the characteristics and engineering design of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration
and to enable the students to achieve effective and efficient design solutions.
1. The students will learn to explain and analyze the refrigeration systems, their various components, and to
apply them in real system analysis.
2. They will demonstrate the knowledge of basic principles of refrigeration cycle and psychometry.
Introduction  [2  Lectures]:  Definition,  Necessity,  Methods  of  refrigeration,  Coefficient  of  performance  (COP),
Fundamentals of air-conditioning systems,
Air Refrigeration Systems [5 Lectures]: Carnot refrigeration cycle, Brayton refrigeration or the Bell Coleman air
refrigeration cycle, Air craft refrigeration system, Simple cooling and simple evaporative types, Regenerative
type, Comparison of different systems;
Vapour  Compression  (VC)  Refrigeration  Systems  [5  Lectures]:  Simple  VC  refrigeration  system  -  Limitations  of
reversed Carnot cycle with vapor as the refrigerant, Analysis of VC cycle considering degrees of sub cooling
and super heating, Multistage and cascade refrigeration systems
Refrigerants  [4  lectures]:  Definition,  Classification,  Nomenclature,  Desirable  properties,  Comparative  study,
Introduction to eco-friendly Refrigerants, binary and azeotropic mixtures, alternate refrigerants.
Other Refrigeration Systems [5 Lectures]: Vapour Absorption Refrigeration System Basic Systems, Actual COP of
the system, Performance, Relative merits and demerits, Electrolux refrigeration, Steam jet refrigerating system
- Introduction, Analysis, Relative merits and demerits, Performance applications,
Psychrometry of Air & Air Conditioning Processes [5 Lectures]: Properties of moist Air-Gibbs Dalton law, Specific
humidity, Dew point temperature, Degree of saturation, Relative humidity, Enthalpy, Wet bulb temperature,
Thermodynamics  wet  bulb  temperature,  Psychometric  chart,  Psychometry  of  air-conditioning  processes,
Mixing process, Basic processes in conditioning of air.
Load Calculations [4 Lectures]: Outside and inside design conditions, Sources of heating and cooling load, Heat
transfer through structure, Solar radiation, Electrical applications, Infiltration and ventilation, Heat generation
inside conditioned space, Human physiology, Comfort chart.
Controls  &  Accessories  [4  Lectures]:  Classifications,  Layout  of  plants,  Equipment  selection,  Air  distribution
system,  Duct  system  design,  Filters,  Refrigerant  piping,  Design  of  summer  air-conditioning  and  Winter  air
conditioning systems, Temperature sensors, Pressure sensors, Humidity sensors, Actuators, Safety controls,
Equipment  design  and  selection  [4  Lectures]:  Type  of  compressors  and  their  performance  curves,  Types  of
condensers,  Heat  transfer  in  condensers,  Types  of  expansion  devices,  Types  of  evaporators,  Cooling  and
HVAC design for buildings [4 lectures]: Design considerations, Ductwork, Cooling towers, Enclosed stairwells
and  elevator  shafts,  Smoke  exhaust,  Noise  and  vibration  considerations,  Mechanical  equipment  rooms,
Ventilation requirements, Water piping, airflow requirements.
1. Jordan, R. C. & Priester, G. B., (2003), Refrigeration & Air conditioning, Prentice Hall of India
2. Arora, C. P., (2008), Refrigeration & Air conditioning, Tata McGraw Hill
3. Stocker, W. F. & Jones, J. W., (2000), Refrigeration & Air conditioning, Tata McGraw Hill
4. Prasad, M., (1999), Refrigeration & Air conditioning, Wiley Eastern Limited
5. Arora, C. P. & Domkundwar, S., (1985), A course in Refrigeration & Air Conditioning, Dhanpat Rai & Sons
Power Plant Engineering
Programme Elective (PE)
Basic Knowledge in
To  introduce  fundamental  technologies  related  to  the  conversion  of  energy  resources  into  electrical  power
1.  Introduction to power plant components, operation and engineering.
2.  Ability to select an appropriate type of power plant for given requirements under different situations
3.  Optimization of energy efficiency of plant with respect to available resources and energy requirement
Introduction to power plant Engineering [2 Lectures]: National and International status on power generation and
Thermal Power Plant [5 Lectures]: Plant layout, Thermal power plant equipment, Types of boilers, performance
of boilers, super critical steam generator,
Condenser and steam turbines [3 Lectures]: Performance of condensers, types of steam turbines, draught system,
Latest development in thermal power plants.
Gas Turbine Power Plant [4 Lectures]: Plant layout, Power cycles, Combustion chamber and gas turbines
Combine cycle power plants [5 Lectures]: Load type and calculation, Load variation, Use of internal combustion
engine plant, plant layout and design calculation, combine cycle efficiency
Nuclear  power  plant  [4  Lectures]:  Principles  of  nuclear  energy,  Elements  of  nuclear  power  plants,  Types  of
nuclear fuel, nuclear reactor, Fast breeder reactors, Next generation nuclear plant,
Hydroelectric power plant [3 Lectures]: Site selection, plant layout, types of plants, water turbine, plant operation,
water storage and flow duration
Solar thermal power plant [5 Lectures]: Introduction to solar thermal power generation, type of solar collectors
and receivers, daily and yearly load variation, Energy storage, Recent advances in solar power plants
Wind Turbine [3 Lectures]: Wind energy, types of wind turbine, site selection, turbine efficiency
Other Non-convectional power plants [3 Lectures]: Introduction to fuel cell, gasification, Ocean thermal energy,
Tidal energy, geothermal energy, challenges and recent developments,
Hybrid power system [3 Lectures]: Power system selection, design of hybrid power system, power optimization,
load distribution, plant efficiency
Selection  of  power  plant  [2  Lectures]:  Environmental  impact,  different  types  of  pollutions,  fuel  availability,
1. Ei-Wakil, M.M, (1985), Power Plant Technology, Tata McGraw-Hill
2. P. K. Nag, Power Plant Engineering, Tata McGraw-Hill,
3. F. T. Morse, Power Plant Engineering, D. Van Nostran, New York,
Solar Thermal Systems
1.  To deliver knowledge of fundamental principles of solar energy and their utilization.
2.  To make students familiar with the potential of solar energy to meet the growing energy demands of society
in a sustainable way.
3.  To introduce solar thermal systems and related technologies.
1.  Knowledge to explain the technical and physical principles of solar collectors and solar thermal systems.
2.  Ability  to  perform  measurements  on  a  wide  variety  of  solar  thermal  systems  and  to  evaluate  their
3.  Ability to design solar thermal systems from energy requirements.
Introduction[2 Lectures]: Energy demand and supply, energy crisis, conventional and non-conventional energy
resources, solar energy applications.
Solar Radiation [4 Lectures]: Solar radiation, attenuation by atmosphere, solar radiation on earth, measurement,
utilization of data.
Flat  Plate  Solar  Collector  [5  Lectures]:  General  description  of  flat  plate  collectors,  general  characteristics,
performance, short term and long term performance, design.
Concentrating  Solar  Collector  [5  Lectures]:  General  description  of  focusing  solar  collectors,  concentrators,
receivers and orienting systems, general characteristics, performance, materials, design.
Energy Storage [5 Lectures]: Energy storage in a solar process system, different types of storages, characteristics,
and capacity of storage medium, solar pond.
Solar Cooling and Heating [4 Lectures]: Passive heating and cooling, nocturnal radiation, Solar Cooking, Solar
Desalination, Solar drying, Solar greenhouse.
Solar Cooling and Heating [4 Lectures]: Active heating and cooling, solar water/air heaters, absorption cooling,
combined solar heating and cooling systems, performance, economics of solar heating and cooling.
Solar Thermal Power and Process heat [5 Lectures]: Solar thermal power, Examples: Rankine solar thermal power
plant, Stirling Cycle, Solar industrial process heat.
Solar Thermal Design[4 Lectures]: Concept of system design, performance index, Simulation of Process, System
performance, Design methods.
Economics and policies for Solar Energy [4 Lectures]: Definitions, Life cycle Costing, Economic Analysis, Payback
period, current policies, clean development.
1.  John A. Duffie, William A. Beckman. John, (2013),  Solar Engineering of Thermal Processes, Fourth Edition,
Wiley & Sons, Inc.
2.  Garg, H.P and Prakash, J, (2012) Solar Energy: Fundamentals and Applications, Tata McGraw – Hill Education
3.  Tiwari, G.N. (2002), Solar Energy Fundamentals, Design, Modelling and Applications. Narosa publishing House,
4.  Sukhatme, P, K and Nayak, J.K. (2008), Solar Energy, Tata McGraw-Hill Education, 3rd Ed.
1.  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112/105/112105051/ (video course)
2.  Excerpts, references, reading material, examples, problems & their solutions will be made available at the
time of the course.
Non-Conventional Sources of Energy and
Programme Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  Deliver knowledge of fundamental principles of non-conventional sources of energy and their utilization.
2.  Teach important technologies of producing power from non-conventional and alternative energy sources.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand various energy sources such as solar, wind, hydropower, biomass, geothermal, and emerging
2.  Utilize the potential of non-conventional energy sources and their applications.
(Fractal 1) ME7XX1 Principles of Non-Conventional Sources and Solar Energy (1-0-0)
Introduction to non-conventional energy sources  [4 Lectures]: Availability and form of delivery; Energy consumption
and conservation; Sustainable development; Standards and Regulations.
Solar  radiation  [5  Lectures]:  Distribution,  measurement  and  data;  Solar  energy  collectors;  Photovoltaic  cell;
Parabolic trough; Parabolic dish; Central receiver system; Solar energy storage.
Applications of solar energy [5 Lectures]: Solar distillation, Solar cooker, Solar drying, Solar greenhouse, Solar water
heating, Solar heating and cooling of buildings.
(Fractal 2) ME7XX2 Wind and Hydro Energy (1-0-0)
Wind Energy [5 Lectures]: Wind data, Estimation and site selection; Principle of wind energy conversion- system
and its components; Wind turbine and estimation of power output; Energy storage.
Application of wind energy [2 Lectures]: Applications and Environmental Aspects.
Hydro-electric  power  [5  Lectures]:  Introduction  and  its  classification;  Typical  components  of  micro/mini
hydropower station; Water turbine; Pelton wheel turbine; Working principle, Performance and limitations.
Ocean wave energy [2 Lectures]:  Working principle, Performance and limitations.
(Fractal 3) ME7XX3 Geothermal, Biomass and Emerging Technologies (1-0-0)
Geothermal Energy [4 Lectures]:  Geothermal sources;Geothermal system and technologies; Ground-source heat
pumps; Social and environmental aspects; Applications.
Biomass  Energy  conversion  [4  Lectures]:  Biomass  conversion  technologies,  Classification,  Advantages,  and
disadvantages;  Production  of  biomass,  Photosynthesis;  Biogas  generation;  Properties  of  biogas  and  its
Fuel cell [4 Lectures]: Working principle, Performance and limitations; Hydrogen Energy, Production methods,
Storage and Transportation.
Hydrogen as an alternative fuel for vehicles  [2 Lectures]
1.  J. Twidell, T. Weir, Renewable Energy Resources. 3rd Ed., Taylor & Francis Group, London, 2015.
2.  J. A. Duffie, W. A. Beckman, Solar Engineering of Thermal Processes. 4th Ed., Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2013.
3.  B.H.Khan, Non-Conventional Energy Resources. Tata McGraw-Hill Education, New Delhi, 2009.
Dr. P. Haridoss, Non-Conventional Energy Resources, NPTEL Course Material, IIT Madras.
Porous Media Flows and Applications
Programme Elective (PE)
Basic knowledge in Fluid Mechanics
1.  To  impart  the  basic  dynamic  phenomena  that  occurs  in  within  porous  media  from  a  mathematical  and
2.  To  apply  different  flow  based  equation  to  model  porous  flows  in  different  media  such  as  biomaterials,
contaminant separation media, soils, etc.
1.  To exemplify how different porous processes occur in different multi-physical settings.
2. To apply empirical and deterministic porous  media equations to model and design processes occurring in
3. To understand and identify different porous flow phenomena in biological, material transport, chemical as
well as soil related contexts.
Basic concepts [6 Lectures]: Basics of porous materials, porosity, tortuosity, percolation, infiltration, soils, permeability,
porous materials, biomaterials and their classifications, flow types, fluid types, nature of different fluids in different setting
such a bio-fluid flows, ground water flows, water percolation and so on.
Visualizing and Experimental observation [6lectures] Understanding the porous nature, imaging techniques, microscopy
and  advanced  methods,  tomography  methods,  Hydrostatic-  permeability  measurements,  Pressure  variation.  porosity
measurement, capillary diaphragm methods, CT-scan and spectrometer method,
Modelling Basics [6 Lectures]: , Darcy’s thought, Random walks and the advection diffusion equation, Network Models,
Unit  cells,  volume  averaging,  elemental  volumes,  Statistical  Descriptors  Fractal  Models,  Effective  Medium,  Mixture
Theories, Double Porosity Models,
Types of Media [5 lectures] Homogenous porous media, Stokes Thought, Karmen-Kozeny and Ergun’s thought, Hazen-
Dupuit-Darcy (HDD) models, Percolation Wettability, Klinkenberg effects, heterogeneous porous media,
Mass and Momentum transport [6 Lectures]: Brinkman and Generalized Momentum aspects, Hydrodynamic boundary
layers, Wall Channelling, Viscous fingering (application of box-counting for fractal dimension),
Thermal Aspects: [6lectures] Thermal properties and applications, Thermal dispersion, thermal conductivity measurement,
lumped capacitance models, local thermal Non-equilibrium models, thermodynamics of Interface
Energy Perspective [6 Lectures]: Forced convection thought, Nusselt numbers, energy equation appended with flows viscous
dissipation,  porous  media  as  heat  exchangers,  pipes  and  channels  with  porous  media  fillings,  Non  Darcy  flows,  Heat
Generation, Boundary layer calculations.
1.  Nield Donald A and Bejan Adrian, Convection in Porous Media, Fifth Edition, Springer Verlag
2.  M. Kaviany, Principles of heat transfer in porous media, Second Edition, Springer Verlag
3.  Arunn Narasimhan, Essentials of Heat and Fluid Flow in Porous Media, Ane Books Pvt Ltd.
4.  Caffarelli L.A., Karakhanyan A.L. (2010) Lectures on  Gas Flow in Porous Media. In: Cabrelli C., Torrea J.
(eds)  Recent  Developments  in  Real  and  Harmonic  Analysis.  Applied  and  Numerical  Harmonic  Analysis.
Birkhäuser, Boston, MA
5.  Dullien, F.A.L. (1979), Porous Media, Academic Press
6.  Scheidegger,  Adrian  E.  (1974).  The  Physics  of  Flow  Through  Porous  Media,  3rd  Edition.  University  of
1.  J. Bear, Dynamics of Fluids in Porous Media, Dover, 1972.
2.  J. Cushman, The Physics of Fluids in Hierarchical Porous Media: Angstroms to Miles, Springer, 1997.
3.  M. Beran, Statistical Continuum Theories, Wiley Interscience,1968.
4.  S. Torquato, Random Heterogeneous Materials, Springer, 2002.
Program Elective (PE)
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer
1.  To inculcate the physics of liquid transport in micro-nano fabricated systems.
2.  To introduce theory and physical principles of fluid mechanics on the microscale
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Understand physics involved in fluid flow in micro-nano fabricated systems
2.  Solve problems of fluid flows in microchannels
Hydrodynamics Review [3 Lectures]: Continuum assumption, Conservation equations at Continuum level, Low
Reynolds’s no. flows-creeping flows, Physics of miniaturization, Scaling laws.
Fluid  mechanics  at  Micro-scale  [4  Lectures]:  Intermolecular  forces,  States  of  matter,  Governing  equations,
Constitutive  relations,  Gas  and  liquid  flows,  Boundary  conditions,  Slip  theory-first  order  and  higher  order
models, Transition to turbulence.
Shear  driven  Flows  [6  Lectures]:  Couette  Flow-  Slip  flow  regime,  Transition  and  Free  molecular,  Oscillatory
Couette Flow, Cavity Flow
Pressure  driven  Flows  [6  Lectures]:  Micro  channel  flows-  Slip  flow  regime,  Transition  and  Free  molecular,
Entrance flows, Effects of Roughness, compressible micro channel flows
Thermal  Effects  in  Microscales  [6  Lectures]:  Thermal  Creep,  Heat  Transfer  in  Poiseuille  Microflows-  Pressure-
Driven Flows, Force-Driven Flows, Heat Transfer in Couette Microflows
Surface  Tension-Driven  Flows  [5  Lectures]:  Surface  tension  and  interfacial  energy,  Different  forms  of  Young’s
Equation, Thin Films, Capillary flows.
Electrokinetic  Flows  [6  Lectures]:Electrokinetic  Effects,  Electric  Double  Layer,  Governing  Equations,
Electroosmotic Flows, Electrophoresis, Dielectrophoresis, Electrocapillary, Continuous electro-wetting, Direct
electro-wetting, Electro-wetting on dielectric.
Microfluidic devices [6 Lectures]: Micropumps,, Microvalves, Microflow sensors, Micromixers, Micropropulsion
and Micronozzle Flows
1.  Karniadakis, G. M, Beskok, A,  Aluru, N, (2005),Microflows and Nanoflows: Fundamentals and Simulation,
2.  Nguyen, N. T., Werely, S. T.,  (2002), Fundamentals and applications of Microfluidics, Artech house Inc.
3.  Kirby, B.J., (2010), Micro- and Nanoscale Fluid Mechanics: Transport in Microfluidic Devices, Cambridge
1.  Tabeling, P., (2005), Introduction to microfluidics, Oxford University Press Inc.
2.  Colin, S., (2009), Microfluidics, John Wiley & Sons.
Program Elective (PC)
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer
The instructor will:
1.  Provide the practical knowledge with regard to the fluid flows in micro-nano fabricated systems
2.  Provide practical exposer to various sensors and equipment use in micro system analysis
1.  The students will have the ability to:
2.  Design microfluidic systems
3.  Plan experiments to evaluate key performance characteristics of a micro-nano system
1.  Visualisation of different micro-nano systems
2.  Study of capillary action in conventional, mini and micro channels
3.  Analysis of Laminar Flow and Diffusion in a Microchannel
4.  Analysis of Turbulent Flow in Microchannel
5.  Study of Droplet microfluidics
6.  Electrophoretic Separation in a Microchannel
7.  Demonstration of Paper Microfluidic Device for Blood-Plasma Separation
8.  Measurement of Heat Transfer Coefficient during Flow Through Microchannel
9.  Flow Simulation for  micro-nano systems
10. Demonstration of ELectrokinetic Flows
1.  Karniadakis, G. M, Beskok, A,  Aluru, N, (2005), Microflows and Nanoflows: Fundamentals and
2.  Nguyen, N. T., Werely, S. T., Fundamentals and applications of Microfluidics, Artech house Inc., 2002.
3.  Kirby, B.J., Micro- and Nanoscale Fluid Mechanics: Transport in Microfluidic Devices,Cambridge
University Press, 2010.
B. Tech (ME)
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  discuss the fundamentals related to design of tools used during various manufacturing operations
2.  principles of fixture design for various components
The students will have the ability to:
Design tooling and fixtures involved in manufacturing operations
Introduction  To  Tool  Design  [6  Lectures]:  Tool  engineering,  Tool  classifications,  Tool  design  objectives,  Tool
design  in  manufacturing,  Challenges  and  requirements,  Standards  in  tool  design,  Tool  drawings,  Surface
finish, Fits and tolerances, Tooling materials - Ferrous and nonferrous tooling materials - Carbides, Ceramics
and Diamond - Non-metallic tool materials, Importance of tool design in PLM, Importance of tool design in
process planning and selection of machine tool
Types of cutting tools [5 Lectures]:  Single  point cutting tools, Design  of form tools, Design  of drills,  Reamers,
Milling cutters, Broaching tools, Gear cutting tools, Thread cutting tools.
Cutting tools and tool holding [5 Lectures]: Tool holding methods for CNC machines, ISO standard for Inserts,
455 Tool holders, Selection of inserts and tool holders for specific applications, Automatic tool changers, Tool
positioners and Tool presetting in CNC machines.
Design  Of  Jigs  And  Fixtures  [8  Lectures]:  Locating  and  supporting  principles,  Clamping  and  work  holding
principles, Drill bushes, Design of drill jigs and Milling fixtures, Turning fixtures, Welding fixtures, Modular
Design Of Tools For Press Work [8 Lectures]: Study of power presses and accessories, Types of dies, Method of
die  operation,  Clearance  and  cutting  force  calculations,  Pilots,  Strippers  and  pressure  pads,  Presswork
materials, Strip layout, Design of blanking and piercing dies, Drawing dies, Bending dies, EDM for press tool
Mold elements [3 Lectures]: Mold Elements, Two plate and Three plate mold design,
Design of parts [4 Lectures]: Design of gates - runners - ejectors, under cut molds, hot runner mold.
Mold materials and manufacturing [3 Lectures]: Mold materials, mold manufacturing.
1.  Donaldson C, Lecain G H and Goold V, (2012), Tool Design, Tata McGraw Hill.
2.  Hoffman E. G, Jigs and Fixtures Design, Thomson Learning.
1.  Joshi P H, (2010), Jigs and Fixtures, McGraw Hill.
2.  Arshinov V and Alekseev G, (1979), Metal Cutting Theory and Cutting Tool Design, MIR Publication
A B Chattopadhyay, Manufacturing Processes II, NPTEL Course Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT
Department  Mechanical Engineering
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
Teach about Human-Machine system, work study, Physical Ergonomics, Cognitive Ergonomics, Biomechanics,
Physical Work Environment and Occupational Safety & Health
Students will be able to
1. Correlate  the  understanding of this subject with their day to day activities and  will be aware of concepts
related to  enhancing human as well as overall system efficiency. The course syllabus is designed so as to
cover work physiology, engineering aspect of product, improvement in the cognitive capabilities etc.
2. Analyze the factors responsible for decreasing the system performance and work on those aspects, thereby
making an efficient system.
Introduction [2 Lectures]: Overview of Ergonomics, Introduction to human-machine system.
Physical  ergonomics  [8  Lectures]:  Work  Physiology,  Musculoskeletal  system,  Metabolism  &  digestive  system,
Cardiovascular system, Respiratory system
Anthropometry [8 Lectures]: Design principles, Collection of data & statistical tools).
Cognitive ergonomics [8 lectures]: Human Sensory system, Perception, Attention resources, Memory, Common
Physical  work  environment  [8  Lectures]:  Visual  environment,  Physics  of  light,  Visibility  &  visual  performance
Lighting  system,  Auditory  environment,  Effect  noise  &  permissible  noise,  Noise  control,  Climate  control,
Thermoregulation, Heat stress & cold stress
Biomechanics aspect and work study [4 Lectures]: Anatomical sites important for occupational ergonomics, manual
work system, tools and techniques for work systems design and assessment
Industrial/organizational  ergonomics  [4  Lectures]:  Occupational  Safety  &  Health,  Case  studies  over  industrial
1.  Bridger R. S., (2008), Introduction to Ergonomics, 3rd edition, CRC Press
2.  Wickens C. D., (2003), An Introduction to Human Factors Engineering, 2nd edition, Pearson
3.  David C. A. (1986) The practice and management of Industrial Ergonomics, Prentice Hall
Online Course Material:
B. Tech (ME)
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
Provide exposure to students with emerging manufacturing techniques for producing micro- and nano- level
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Able to appreciate the processes employed for the fabrication of miniaturized products.
2.  Explain the physical description, modelling and experimentations for manufacturing at micro and nano
An  overview  of  micro  and  nano  mechanical  systems  and  their  applications  in  Mechanical  Engineering  [5  Lectures]:
Nano-machines, Nanomechanics, Nano-metrology, Nano-tribology, Nano-fluidics, Nano-manufacturing.
MEMS  Micro  fabrication  [7  Lectures]:  Science,  modelling  and  experimental  aspect  of  diffusion,  thermal
oxidation,  ion  implantation,  rapid  thermal  processing,  optical  lithography,  photoresists,  non-optical
photolithography,  vacuum  processes  and  plasmas,  and  etching  processes,  thin  film  manufacturing  using
physical vapor deposition, chemical vapor deposition, epitaxial growth processes.
Silicon  Micromachining  [5  Lectures]:  anisotropic  wet  chemical  etching,  wafer  bonding,  dry  plasma  etching,
Laser Micromachining methods [2 Lectures]
Mechanical  Micromachining  [6  Lectures]:  Abrasive  micro  grinding,  micro  milling,  micro  electro  discharge
machining, micro electro chemical machining, nano grinding.
Beam method [2 Lectures]: focused ion beam and electron beam machining.
Fabrication of nano materials and nano crystalline materials [7 Lectures]: Characterization techniques such as SEM,
Micro-  nano  patterned  surfaces  for  functional  devices  [6  Lectures]:  application  potential  of  micro  and  nano
Recent advances in micro & nanofabrication [2 lectures]
1.  Drexler K E, Nanosystem: Molecular Machinery, Manufacturing and Computation, John Wiley
2.  Rai-Choudhuri P, Handbook of Microlithography, Micromachining and Microfabrication, SPIE Press
3.  McGeough J A, Micromachining of Engineering Materials, Marcel Dekkar
4.  Jain V K,(2011), Introduction to micromachining, Narosa Publications
5.  Cabrini S and Hawata S, (2012), Nano fabrication hand book – CRC press
K  N  Bhat,  Micro-  and  Smart  Systems,  NPTEL  Course  Material  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  IISc
Design and Manufacturing of
B. Tech (ME)
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  Discuss the fundamental principle in biomedical engineering material science, chemistry.
2.  Enable engineering skills to students needed to solve challenges in the biomaterials and tissue engineering
The students will have the ability to:
Appreciate processes used in making of biocompatible materials
Classes of materials used in medicine and healthcare [5 Lectures]: Metals, polymers, FRPs, fabrics, nanocomposites,
ceramics, glasses etc
Bioresorbable and bio-erodable materials [3 Lectures]
Host reactions to biomaterials [5 Lectures]: biocompatibility, implant associated infection;
Testing of biomaterials [5 Lectures]: In vitro assessment, in vivo assessment, blood materials interactions.
Design  of  materials  for  biomedical  application  [4  Lectures]:  Cardiovascular,  dental  implants,  orthopaedic
application, skin, ophthalmologic applications, wound healing, sutures,
Biomedical and biosensors [2 Lectures]
3-D  printing  of  biomaterials  [6  Lectures]:  Fabrication  of  nanomaterials,  tissue  regenerations,  laser  assisted  bio
printing, scaffolding techniques,
3-D scaffold for organs, bone regeneration [2 Lectures]
Implantation techniques for soft tissue and hard tissue replacements [6 Lectures]: Problems and possible solutions in
Failure analysis of medical devices and implants [4 Lectures]
1.  Ratner  B  D,  Hoffman  A,  Schoen  F,  Lemons  J,  (2004),  Biomaterials  Science:  An  Introduction  to  Materials  in
Medicine, Academic Press
2.  Park J.B. and Bronzino J.D., (2002), Biomaterials: Principles and Applications. CRC Press. ISBN: 0849314917
1.  Wright T M, and Goodman S B, (2001), Implant Wear in Total Joint Replacement: Clinical and Biologic Issues,
Material and Design Considerations. American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons.
2.  Ambrosio L, (2009), Biomedical composites, Woodhead Publishing Limited, UK.
3.  Hin T.S., (2004), Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications. World Scientific. ISBN 981-256-061-0
M  Doble,  Medical  Biomaterials,  NPTEL  Course  Material  Department  of  BioEngineering,  IIT  Madras,
Computer Integrated Manufacturing
B. Tech (ME)
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  Understand the effect of manufacturing automation strategies and derive production metrics
2.  Analyze automated flow lines and assembly systems, and balance the line.
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Design automated material handling and storage systems for a typical production system
2.  Design a manufacturing cell and cellular manufacturing system
3.  Develop CAPP systems for rotational and prismatic parts.
Manufacturing  Automation  [4  Lectures]:  Automated  Manufacturing  Systems,  Computerized  Manufacturing
Support Systems, Reasons for Automation, Automation Strategies-The USA Principle
Automated  Flow  lines  [4  Lectures]:  System  Configurations,  Workpart  Transfer  Mechanisms,  Storage  Buffers,
Control of Production Line, Analysis of Transfer Lines-Transfer Lines with No Internal Parts Storage
Manual  Assembly  Lines  [4  Lectures]:  Assembly  Workstations,  Work  Transport  Systems,  Line  Pacing,  Coping
With  Product  Variety,  Analysis  of  Single  Model  Assembly  Lines-Repositioning  Losses,  The  Line  Balancing
Problem, Line Balancing Algorithms-Largest Candiate Rule, Kilbridge and Wester Method, Ranked Positional
Automated Assembly Systems [4 Lectures]: System Configurations, Parts Delivery at Workstations, Applications,
Quantitative Analysis of Assembly Systems- Parts Delivery System at Workstations, Multi-station Assembly
machines, Single Station Assembly Machines, Partial Automation
Automatic  Material  Handling  and  Storage  systems  [4  Lectures]:  Design  Considerations  in  Material  Handling,
Material  Transport  Equipment-Industrial  Trucks,  Automated  Guided  Vehicles,  Monorails  and  Other  Rail-
Guided  Vehicles,  Conveyors,  Cranes  and  Hoists,  Analysis  of  Vehicle  Based  Systems,  Conveyor  Analysis.
Automated Storage/Retrieval Systems, Carousel Storage Systems
Automated  Inspection  systems  [4  Lectures]:  Overview  of  Automated  Identification  Methods,  Bar  Code
Technology, Radio Frequency Identification, Other AIDC Technologies-Mangnetic Stripes, Optical Character
Recognition, and Machine Vision
Cellular  Manufacturing  Systems  [4  Lectures]:  Part  Families,  Parts  Classification  and  Coding,  Features  of  Parts
Classification  and  Coding  Systems,  Opitz  of  Parts  Classification  and  Coding  Systems,  Production  Flow
Analysis,  Composite  Part  Concept,  Machine  Cell  Design,  Quantitative  analysis  of  Cellular  Manufacturing,
Grouping of parts and Machines by Rank Order Clustering, Arranging Machines in a GT Cell
Flexible Manufacturing Systems [4 Lectures]: Flexibility, Types Of FMS-A Dedicated FMS, A Random Order FMS,
FMS Components-Workstations, Material Handling and Storage Systems, Computer Control System, Human
Recourses, FMS Applications and Benefits
Agile Manufacturing and Lean Manufacturing [2 Lectures]
1.  Groover M. P., (2007), Automation, production Systems and Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 3 rd Edition,
Prentice Hall Inc., New Delhi.
2.  Singh N., (2006), System Approach to Computer Integrated Manufacturing, Wiley & Sons Inc.
3.  Kusiak A, (2002),  Intelligent Manufacturing System, Prentice Hall Inc., New Jersey.
J Ramkumar, Computer Integrated Manufacturing, NPTEL Course Department  of Mechanical Engineering,
IIT Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112104289/
Design for Manufacturing
Department  Mechanical Engineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Demonstrate the importance of integrating design and manufacturing to optimize production cost, quality
2.  Discuss topics related to design for quality and reliability along with approaches towards robust design
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the impact of manufacturing constraints on product design and process planning
2.  Understand factors controlling production rate and influence the quality, cost and flexibility of
manufacturing processes and systems.
Introduction  [4  Lectures]:  Need  identification  and  problem  definition,  Concept  generation  and  evaluation,
Selection  of  Materials  and  Shapes  [8  Lectures]:  Properties  of  engineering  materials,  Selection  of  materials  (with
examples and case studies), selection of shapes, Co-selection of materials and shapes.
Selection of Manufacturing processes [8 Lectures]: Overview of manufacturing processes, Design for Casting, Design
for bulk deformation and sheet metal processes,
Processing  of  polymer  [8  Lecture]:  Design  for  Machining,  Design  for  Polymer  and  powder  processing,  Case
Design  for  Assembly  [8  lectures]:  Review  of  Assembly  operations,  Design  for  Welding,  Soldering,  Brazing  and
Adhesive joining, Design for heat treatment, Case Studies
Design  for  Reliability  and  Quality  [6  Lectures]:  Failure  Mode  and  Effect  Analysis,  Design  for  Quality,  Design  for
Reliability, Approach to robust design, Design for optimization
1.  Dieter G., Engineering Design - a materials and processing approach, McGraw Hill
2.  Ashby M. F., Material Selection in Mechanical Design, Butterworth-Heinemann
3.  Boothroyd G., Dewhurst P., and Knight W., Product Design for Manufacture and Assembly, John Wiley
4.  Bralla J. G., Handbook for Product Design for Manufacture, McGraw Hill
Online Course Material:
Casting and Allied Processes
Department  Mechanical Engineering
B. Tech (ME)
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  Impart fundamental understanding of various casting processes.
2.  Discuss fundamentals of solidification, design principles, melting techniques etc.
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate various casting processes and its selection for different materials
2.  Design systems and components necessary for obtaining cast components.
Casting  Processes  [8  Lectures]:  classification,  characteristics  of  sand  casting  processes,  metal  mould  casting
processes and casting processes using other mould/core materials, Pattern materials, types of patterns, Mould
and core making materials and their characteristics
Technology  of  Selected  Casting  Processes  [6  Lectures]:  clay  bonded,  oil  bonded,  synthetic  resin  bonded,  and
inorganic  material  bonded  mould  and  core  making  processes.  Sand  additives  and  mould  coatings.  Metal
mould casting processes, centrifugal and continuous casting processes
Casting  for  heterogeneous  materials  [6  Lectures]:  FRP,  quick  casting  ,  full  mould  casting,  evaporative  pattern
Solidification [7 Lectures]: Nucleation and grain growth, Solidification of pure metals, short and long freezing
range alloys. Rate of solidification, Solidification contraction.
Microstructure study and testing [5 Lecture]: macrostructure and microstructure Fluidity and its measurement.
Mould-metal interface reactions.
Design of the casting system [4 Lecture]: Gating and Risering design & analysis.
Melting and quality control of various steels and non-ferrous alloys [6 Lectures]: Casting defects - fettling, inspection
and testing of castings
1. Serope Kalpakjian, (1997), Manufacturing processes for Engineering Materials, Addison Wesley.
2. Mukherjee, P. C.  Fundamentals of metal casting technology, Oxford and IBH.
3. Dieter G, Mechanical Metallurgy, Me Graw Hill, Kogakusha
4. Korolkove, V.Casting properties of metals and alloys
P  K  Jha,  Principles  of  Metal  Casting,  NPTEL  Course  Material  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering,  IIT
Non-Traditional Machining  Processes
B. Tech (ME)
The Instructor will:
1.  Discuss the fundamentals of non-conventional machining processes.
2.  Appreciate the effect of process parameters on quality of machined components
1.  Students will learn new class of machining techniques used in industries
2.  Students will learn about process parameters involved in non-traditional techniques and their  effects on
3.  Students will be aware of distinct class of materials along with their industrial applications
Introduction [2 Lectures]: Technological and commercial need, classification, performance constraints, selection
of NTM, advanced processes
Mechanical  Machining  Process  [7  Lectures]:  Abrasive  jet  machining,  water  jet  cutting,  abrasive  water  jet
machining, abrasive flow machining, magnetic abrasive finishing  - process variables, material removal rate,
mechanism of material removal, process capabilities, abrasive particle size, limitations and applications.
Ultrasonic  Machining  [4  Lectures]:  Ultrasonic  machining  system,  mechanics  of  cutting,  process  parameters,
analysis, capability, grain growing model, grain hammering model, applications and limitations.
Electro  Discharge  Machining  (Edm)  [7  Lectures]:  Working  principle,  process  parameters,  process  capabilities,
components of system and its functions, analysis of RC circuit, power delivered to discharging circuit, current
in  discharge  circuit,  parametric  relation  for  material  removal  rate  and  surface  finish,  gap  cleaning,  process
characteristics, effect of various parameters on material removal rate, application and limitations,, wire EDM
machine, stratified wire, process characteristics, applications and limitations.
Laser Beam Machining (LBM) [4 Lectures]: Production of lasers, types of lasers, process characteristics, working
principle,  process  parameters,  process  capabilities,  components  of  system  and  its  functions,  limitations,
application in drilling, cutting, marking and miscellaneous applications.
Plasma Arc Machining (PAM) [4 Lectures]: Working principle, process parameters, process capabilities, elements
of PAM system and their functions, various plasma arc torches, process capabilities, comparison with oxy fuel
cutting, applications and limitations.
Electron  Beam  Machining  (EBM)  [2  Lectures]:  Working  principle,  process  parameters,  process  capabilities,
elements of EBM system and their functions, applications and limitations.
Introduction to ElectroChemical And Chemical Machining Processes [2 Lectures]: Working principle components and
functions, process parameters, limitations and applications.
Mechanism of MRR [3 Lectures]: Electro chemical machining, material removal rate and mechanism.
Parametric study [7 Lectures]: inter electrode gap, zero feed rate, finite feed rate, maximum permissible feed rate,
self-regulation feature, effect of Joule’s heating, effect of hydrogen bubbles generation, anode shape prediction.
Application,  Advantages  and  limitations  [2  Lectures]:  Tool  design  -  Chemical  machining,  masks,  etchants,
advantages and limitations.
1.  Jain V K, (2012),  Advanced Machining Processes, Allied Publications Private Limited.
2.  McGeough J A, (2011), Advanced Methods of Machining, Springer.
3.  Benedict G F, (2011), Non Traditional Manufacturing Process, Taylor and Francis.
1.  Pandey P C and Shan H S, (2011), Modern Machining Process, Tata McGraw Hill Publications.
2.  Ghosh A and Mallik A K, (2006), Manufacturing Science, East West Press Private Limited.
3.  Abdel H and El-Hofy G, (2005), Advanced Machining Processes, McGraw Hill Publications.
4.  Sommer C, (2000), Non-traditional Machining Handbook, Advance Publishing Inc.
V K Jain, Advanced Machining Processes, NPTEL Course Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Kanpur,
Welding Science and Technology
B. Tech (ME)
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  Impart fundamental understanding of various conventional and non-conventional welding processes
2.  Discuss various metallurgical aspects related with welding
3.  Discuss heat transfer and associated issues with the welding operation
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the physics of welding operation and allied processes and select the process
2.  Model heat transfer and cooling characteristics of welding
Introduction and classification of welding [7 Lectures]: Design principles of welded structures; Physics of welding
arc – characteristics of arc, mode of metal transfer, forces acting on a molten droplet.
Shielded  metal  arc  welding,  Submerged  arc  welding  (SAW)  [3  Lecture]:Gas  tungsten  arc  welding,  Gas  metal  arc
Arc welding [6 Lectures]:Flux cored arc welding, Plasma arc welding, Electroslag welding, Electrogas welding,
Arc stud welding, Synergic and pulsed welding.
Diffusion welding [2 Lecture].
Friction welding, resistance welding, brazing, soldering [8 Lectures]:
Power source [4 Lecture]: Types of power source and their characteristics.
Flux and coating [4 Lecture]: Welding fluxes and coatings - type and classification.
Welding thermal cycle [2 Lecture]: Cooling rates, models for welding heat sources.
Testing  of  the  welded  joint  [4  Lecture]:    Non-destructive  Testing  of  welds,  fracture  and  fatigue  of  welded
Role  of  heat  treatment  and  alloying  elements  on  performance  [4  Lecture]:    Welding  metallurgy,  heat  treatment  of
welds, effect of alloying materials.
Welding symbol for process and position [2 Lecture]:  Welding symbols, standards and codes.
Laboratory Classes (12 Classes)
Study of temperature distribution during weld thermal cycle.
Study of residual deformation in arc welded joint.
Distortion study for the welded joint.
Effect of the welding parameters on bead profile.
Study on effect of welding parameters on mechanical performance of the welded joint.
Study of the heat input on microstructure of bulk weld metal and HAZ.
Non-destructive testing of the welded joint (Liquid penetrant testing).
1.  Brien, O., (2004), Welding Handbook: Welding Processes, Part 1, Vol. 2, AWS.
2.  Lancaster J. F., (1986), The Physics of welding, Pergamon,.
3.  Messler, R. W., (1999), Principles of Welding, John Wiley and Sons.
1. Grong O., (1997), Metallurgical modelling of welding, 2nd Ed, IOM Publication.
2. Radhakrishnan V M, (2002), Welding technology and design, New age.
3. Goldak A, (2005), Computational welding mechanics, Springer.
4. Lindgren L E, (2007),  Computational welding mechanics, Woodhead Publishing Limited.
G Phanikumar, Analysis and Modeling of Welding, NPTEL Course Material Department of Metallurgical
Engineering, IIT Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113106067/
B. Tech (ME)
To provide students understanding of the  metallurgical principles involved in welding of ferrous and non-
ferrous metals and alloys and to provide knowledge on dissimilar metal welding.
1.  To enable understanding and effective application of physical metallurgy principles to non-equilibrium
thermo-mechanical conditions associated with welding.
2.  Facilitate understanding and familiarity of the joining of dissimilar metal welds.
3.  Understanding of the basic fundamentals, techniques and processes suitable for welding non-ferrous
Metallurgy principles for welding [6 Lectures]: Application of physical metallurgy principles to non-equilibrium
thermo-mechanical conditions associated with welding.
Heat and Fluid Flow in Welding [10 Lectures]:
Fluid flow in welding [5 Lecture]: fluid flow at flow in welding, Fluid flow and metal evaporation in welding.
Chemical reaction during the welding process [5 Lecture].
Fusion zone [12 Lectures]:
Various zones of the welded joint [6 Lecture]: Fusion zone, Partially melted zone, Heat affected zone.
Solidification and cracking in welds [6 Lecture]:  Weld solidification principles, Chemical Inhomogeneities and
Welding of various materials [12 Lectures]:
Welding of similar alloys [6 Lecture]: Welding of stainless steels, aluminum alloys, copper alloys and Nickel
Joining of Dissimilar metal welds [6 Lectures]: Ni/Cu with SS; different grade steels.
1.  Sindo Kuo, (2002), Welding Metallurgy, Second Edition, Wiley
2.  Easterling K.E., (1992), Introduction to the physical metallurgy of welding,  Butterworths
3.  Lippold J. C. and Kotecki D. J., (2005), Welding Metallurgy and Weldability of Stainless steels, Wiley
Self Learning Material
Fundamentals of Metal Forming
Programme Elective (PE)
1. To impart the basic knowledge and concepts used in the area of metal forming technology.
2. To understand the science and technology of different forming processes and analyze forming problems -
both the mechanics of forming processes and how the properties of metals interact with the processes.
1. The course will enable the students to be conversant with working principles so that they can use the
knowledge gained towards increasing the productivity of manufacturing industries in the long run.
2. Enabling the students to understand the fundamentals of the formability of materials.
Introduction [4 Lectures]: Introduction to metal forming technology; Classification of metal forming processes;
Cold, warm and hot working; Mechanical behavior of materials.
Mechanical properties of materials [5 Lectures]: Concepts of stress-strain; State of stress in three-dimension;
Elastic and plastic stress-strain relationships; Tensile properties; Flow stress and flow curves.
Theory of plasticity[5 Lectures]: Introduction to the theory of plasticity; Yield criteria; Strain, strain rate and
temperature effects on flow properties; Microstructure variable and residual stresses.
Bulk forming processes [6 Lectures]:  Introduction and classification of forging, rolling, extrusion, wire and tube
drawing processes; Defects in rolled and forged products.
Analysis of bulk forming processes [5 Lectures]:Analysis of forming processes by Slab method, Slipline field
method, Upper and lower bound methods.
Factors affecting metal working [2 Lectures]: Friction and lubrication in metal working; Metallurgical
parameters affecting metal working processes.
Sheet metal forming processes [4 Lectures]: Shearing, Punching/Blanking, Bending &Deep drawing, Stretch
Formability [5 Lectures]: Formability testing of sheet metals; Determination of forming limit diagrams (FLD)
and their applications; Defects in sheet metal forming; Case studies on the evolution of stress-strain during
the forming processes.
Special metal forming processes [6 Lectures]: High-energy rate forming such as explosive, electrohydraulic and
magnetic forming processes; Powder metallurgy forming; Pilgering, Semi-solid forming, Forming by severe
plastic deformation (SPD) processes; Hot isostatic pressing (HIP).
1. Ghosh A. and Mallik A.K., Manufacturing Science, Pearson India, 2010.
2. Altan T. and Tekkaya A.E., Sheet Metal Forming: Processes and Applications, ASM International, 2012.
3. Harris J.N., Mechanical Working of Metals ‐ Theory and Practice, Pergamon 1983.
1. Rowe G.W., An introduction to the Principles of Metalworking, Edward Arnold, 1968.
2. Dieter G.E., Mechanical Metallurgy (Third edition), McGraw Hill Education, 2017.
Introduction to Acoustics
Program Elective (PE)
Linear Algebra and Calculus
This  course  aims  to  provide  fundamental  concepts  of  acoustics  involving  sound  propagation,  sound
generation, sound radiation, sound reflection and transmission, and sound reception, and use of these concepts
for studying and development of noise control methods
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Understand characteristics of acoustic field for different scenarios like in a room, in a muffler, in a duct, in
free field etc.
2. Identify different noise sources in a system and then, work to develop methods to reduce the noise.
Introduction and terminology used in acoustics [1 Lecture]
Acoustic wave equation and its simple solutions [4 Lectures]
Spherical waves [3 Lectures]: Inhomogeneous acoustic wave equation, concept of point source
Reflection and transmission [5 Lectures]: Plane waves under normal and oblique incidence, Sound transmission
through a fluid layer and a thin panel
Radiation [5 Lectures]: Sound field of oscillating spheres (as elemental sources), Sound field due to monopole,
dipole and quadrupole sources, their importance, and their relation with oscillating spheres, sound field from
a plane circular piston, continuous line source, radiation impedance, directivity and directivity index
Acoustic field in a rectangular waveguide of constant cross section [3 Lectures]
Pipes, resonators and filters [4 Lectures]: Resonance in pipes, power radiation from open ended pipes, Helmholtz
resonator, Mufflers, Acoustic barriers and enclosures
Sound  absorption  [5  Lectures]:  A  simple  model  for  growth  of  sound  in  a  room,  Reverberation  Time,  Sound
absorption and Sound absorption materials, direct and reverberant sound
Electro-mechanical-acoustic  analogies  [4  Lectures]:  Lumped  parameter  modeling  of  a  loudspeaker  using  these
Hearing [2 Lectures]: Anatomy of human ear and function of different parts, Fundamental properties of hearing
Noise and sound measurement [3 Lectures]: Introduction to sound measurement and instrumentation, frequency
analysis, octave analysis, Combining band levels, Loudness level and loudness, Pitch and frequency
Green’s function and Kirchoff’s formula [3 Lectures]: Introduction to generalized functions and Green’s theory for
solution  of  partial  differential  equations,  as  required  in  acoustics,  Reciprocal  theorem  in  linear  acoustics,
Kirchhoff’s formula of linear acoustics in the presence of surfaces.
1.  Kinsler L. E., Frey A. R., Coppens A. B., Sanders J. V., (1999), Fundamentals of Acoustics, 4th Edition, Wiley
2.  Beranek L., Mellow T. (2019), Acoustics: Sound Fields, Transducers and Vibration, 2nd Edition, Academic Press
3.  Migeot J. L., Coyette J. P., Lielens G., (2016), Acoustics: Essential concepts, theory and models of linear acoustics
for engineers, 1st Edition, IJK Numerics
4.  Munjal M. L., (2013), Noise and Vibration Control, World Scientific Publishing Pte. Ltd.
5.  Dowling and Ffowcs-Williams, (1983), Sound and sources of sound, Ellis Horwood Publishers.
Self Learning Material
Computer Aided Design
Linear Algebra and Calculus
To introduce the concepts of geometric modelling and its use in Computer Aided Design
1. Understanding fundamentals of geometric modelling techniques
2. Understand the application of geometric modelling and CAD techniques in creation of product desi
Transformations [6 Lectures]: 2D transformations, 3D transformations, Projections
Analytical Curves [2 Lectures]: Circle, Ellipse, Parabola, Hyperbola, General quadratic curve
Synthetic  Curves  [4  Lectures]:Cubic  Curves  (Hermite),  Parabolically  blended  Curves,  Bezier  curves,  B-spline
Curves, NURBS [4 Lectures]
Surfaces [3 Lectures]: Surface of revolution, Sweep Surfaces, Quadratic Surfaces, Spherical Surfaces
Surfaces  [6  Lectures]:  Coon's  linear  and  bicubic  patches,  Ruled  and  Developable  Surfaces,  Bezier  Surfaces,  B-
spline Surfaces, Rational Surfaces
Curve and Surface intersections and relational properties [4 Lectures]
Solid Modelling [6 Lectures]: B-rep, CSG, Analytical solid modelling, Octree and Voxel representation, Euler's
operators, Euler's formula, Euler-Poincare characteristics, Topology and Geometry
Optimum  Design  [4  Lectures]:  Purpose  and  applications  of  optimum  design,  effect  of  manufacturing  errors;
Characteristics  of  mechanical  systems;  Selection  of  optimum  configuration;  Critical  regions;  Materials  and
dimensions; Primary and subsidiary design equations; Limit equations; Normal redundant and incompatible
Design techniques [3 Lectures]: Exact and iterative techniques. Optimal design of elements and systems; shafts,
beams, gears, bearings, springs, high speed machinery, cams, intermittent motion devices.
Laboratory Classes [12-13 Classes]
Rotation of a 2D object about any arbitrary point (m, n) using 2D transformations , Reflection of a 2D object
about any arbitrary line using 2D transformations, Rotation of a 3D object about any arbitrary line using 3D
transformations, Reflection of a 3D object about any arbitrary plane  using 3D transformations, Program for
Oblique projection (Verify with cube with cut section), Program for Perspective projection (Verify with cube
or  cube  with  cut  section),  Program  for  translating  the  object,  rotating  the  object  and  then  performing
perspective projection, program to find curve values { x(t), y(t), z(t) } for normalised cubic splines when initial
and final points of the curve and tangents at initial and final points are given, Plot Bezier basis function or
Bernstein basis functions or blending function for Bezier curves of various degree, MATLAB code to plot B-
spline  basis  functions  and  B-spline  curves.  The  code  should  facilitate  choice  of  knot  vector:  Uniform  knot
vector, open uniform knot vector, non-uniform knot vector, non-uniform knot vector proportional to chord
distances, MATLAB code to plot rational B-spline basis functions and rational B-spline curves, MATLAB code
for generating Bezier Surfaces, MATLAB code for generating B-spline surfaces, MATLAB code for generating
rational B-spline surface
1.  Rogers D.F, and Adams J. A., Mathematical elements of Computer Graphics, McGraw Hill
2.  Mortenson M. (2006), Geometric modelling, Industrial Press
3.  Zeid, I., and Sivasubramanian, R., Theory and Practice CAD/CAM, McGraw Hill
4. Johnson,‘Optimum Design of Mechanical Element’, John Wiley and Sons, 1961.
5. Johnson, ‘Mechanical Design Synthesis’, Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1970.
6. Fox, ‘Optimization Methods for Engineering Design’, Addison-Wesley, 1971.
Principle of Biomechanics
B.Tech (ME, BS & BE)
algebra,  differential  equations,  and
mechanics of materials
1.  To provide basic background in biomechanics for engineering students to understand the overview of
musculoskeletal anatomy, mechanical and structural behavior of biological organs
2.  To analysis the forces in human function and movement; energy and power in human activity
3.  To apply the concept of stress and strain analysis in biological tissues and organs
4.  To explore the concept of viscoelasticity in modeling of biological organs
1.  Ability to identify a given bone, ligament or muscle by name, anatomic location, or function
2.  Ability to demonstrate the basic principles of mechanics to the analysis of human movement
3.  Ability to analyze the forces at a skeletal joint for various static and dynamic human activities
4.  Ability to calculate the stresses and strains in biological tissues given the loading conditions and material
5.  Ability to identify the appropriate viscoelasticity model for the mechanical behavior of a given biological
Basic  Terminologies  [5  Lectures  ]:  Skeletal  System,  Axial  and  Appendicular  Skeleton,  Bones  in  Human  Body,
Types of Joints, Movements about Joints, Levers in the Human Body
Principle of Statics and its application of Musculoskeletal System [5 Lectures]: Joint structures and function, Joint
Forces and Moments, Muscle Forces, Structural Function/Analysis of Skeletal Body Element (Shoulder, Elbow
And Forearm, Wrist And Hand, Trunk And Spine, Hip, Knee, Ankle, Patterns Of Movement
Review of Dynamics and its applications [ 5 Lectures]: Linear And Angular Kinematics of Human Motion, Kinetic
of Human Motion, Examples In Biomechanics; Applications of Human Motion Analysis In Fluid Medium
Stress  And  Strain  In  Tissue  [5  Lectures]:  Bone,  Tendon  and  Ligament,  Muscle,  Articular  Cartilage,  Hookian
Constitutive Law ( Homogeneous/Non Homogeneous, Isotropic/Anisotropic),
Linear/Nonlinear Behavior of Tissues and its degradation [7 Lectures]: Tensile, Compressive, And Shear Properties
of Connective Tissues, Mechanical Properties of Bones, Degradation of Tissue
Anisotropic Behavior of Bone [5 Lectures]: Response Of Tissue to Different Loading Conditions (Overload Injuries
Introduction  to  Viscoelasticity  [Lecture  5]:  Viscoelasticity  of  Soft  Tissues,  Models  of  Viscoelasticity  (Maxwell,
Viscoelastic  Behavior  of  Tissues[Lecture  5]:  Viscoelastic  Behavior  of  Tendons,  Tendon  Interaction  with
Surrounding Tissues, Mechanical Properties of Muscles
1.  Hall, S. J, Basic biomechanics.
2.  Ozkaya and Nordin,  Fundamentals of biomechanics: equilibrium, motion, and deformation.
3.  Mow And Hayes, Basic orthopedic biomechanics
4.  Nordin & Frankel, Basic biomechanics of the musculoskeletal system
5.  Duane Keaton, ‘Fundamentals of Biomechanics’, 2nd Ed, Springer, 2007
1.  Fung, Biomechanics: mechanical properties of living tissues
2.  Winter, Biomechanics and control of human movement
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1. Provide the fundamentals of vibration of discrete systems, influence of damping
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Analyse the vibration characteristics of discrete systems
2.   Thorough understanding of modeling of damping and their effects on system response
Introduction [1 Lecture]
Single degree of freedom systems [5 Lectures]: Undamped free and forced vibration
Types of damping [2 Lectures]: Viscous, Friction, Hysteretic damping
Damped single degree of freedom [2 Lectures]: Frequency response, resonance
Beating phenomenon [1 Lecture]
Vibration under general forcing condition, Duhamel Integral [4 Lectures]
Vibration measuring instruments  [4 Lectures]
Response spectrum or Shock spectrum [4 Lectures]
Two-degrees of freedom system [5 Lectures]
Multi degree of freedom systems [5 Lectures]
Free vibration of undamped systems [3 Lectures]: Normal modes ,Orthogonality of modes, Expansion theorem,
Vibration control [3 Lectures]: Vibration isolation, vibration absorber
String  and beam vibration [2 Lectures]
Vibration of rotating shafts and critical speeds [1 lecture]
1. Thompson, W.T., (1993), Theory of Vibration with Applications, Prentice Hall
2. Rao, S.S., (1990), Mechanical Vibrations, Prentice Hall
3. Meirovitch, L., (1986), Elements of vibration analysis,, Prentice Hall
4. Weaver, Timoshenko and Young, ‘Vibration Problems in Engineering’, 5th Ed. John-Wiley and Sons, 1990.
5. Clough and Penzien, ‘Dynamics of Structures’, 2nd Ed. McGraw-Hill,1993.
Online Course Material
Introduction to Robotics
Robotics and Mobility Systems
B. Tech (All Branches)
1.To introduce fundamental aspects of modelling and control of robot manipulators.
2.To provide a brief of results from geometry, kinematics, dynamics, motion planning and control
The course will equip students with theoretical and practical knowledge of robot modelling, programming and
Part I: Robot Modelling [14 Lectures]
Position Kinematics [6 lectures]: Transformations, Rigid Motions, Forward Kinematics: Denavit-Hartenberg
Convention, Inverse Kinematics
Velocity Kinematics [4 lectures]: The Jacobian: Angular and Linear Velocity: Singularities, Accelerations
Robot Dynamics [4 lectures]: Equations of Motion, Kinetic and Potential Energy, Euler-Lagrange Equations,
Recursive Newton-Euler Formulation
Part II: Motion Planning and Vision based control [14 Lectures]
Path Planning [3 lectures]: The Configuration Space, Planning in Configuration Space, Potential Fields, RRTs
Trajectory Planning [5Lectures]: Point to Point Motion, Paths Specified by Via Points
Computer Vision [3 lectures]: Introduction to Computer Vision, The Geometry of Image Formation, Camera
Calibration, Image Features, Segmentation
Vision-Based Control [3 lectures]: Relation between End Effector and Camera Motions, Camera Motion and
Interaction Matrix, Image-Based Control Laws, Partitioned Approaches
Part III: Robot Control [14 Lectures]
Linear Control [6 lectures]: Feedback and closed-loop control, second-order linear systems, control of second-
order systems, Control-law partitioning, trajectory-following control, disturbance rejection, Continuous vs.
Discrete time control, modelling and control of a single joint, architecture of an industrial-robot controller
Nonlinear control [5 lectures]: Nonlinear and time-varying systems, multi-input, multi-output control systems,
control of manipulators, practical considerations, Lyapunov stability analysis, cartesian-based control systems,
Force Control [3 lectures]: Interaction with Environment, Force Control, Hybrid Force/Motion control
1.Craig J. J (2008), Introduction to robotics: mechanics and control. Pearson 3rd Edition.
2.Spong M. W., Hutchinson, S., and Vidyasagar, M.(2020), Robot modeling and control. New York: Wiley 2nd
3.Saha S. K. (2017), Introduction to robotics. Tata McGraw-Hill Education, 2nd edition
Programme Elective (PE)
Basic knowledge in Mechanisms
1.  Understanding  basics  of  sensing  and  actuation  (electrical,  hydraulic  and  pneumatic  with  industrial
2. Inculcate system design thinking among students
3. Impart Programming and interfacing techniques of embedded microcontrollers with sensors and actuators
for internet of things applications in mechanical engineering
1.  Knowledge and understanding  of Sensors, actuators  and microcontrollers in the  context of  mechanisms
2.  Power management of systems through modern technologies and system integration and design
3.  IoT  fundamentals  and  modern  computing  skills,  and  the  role  of  programming  within  the  mechanical
Introduction  to  Mechatronics  systems  [3  Lectures]:  Mechatronics  system  components-  Measurement  Systems,
Block diagram representation
Types of systems [5 Lectures]: First order systems, second order systems, Performance specifications in time and
frequency domain, Open and Closed Loop Systems, PID Control of mechanical Systems
Introduction to sensors [5 lectures]:  Basics of analog and digital electronic devices, Principles and working of
typical  sensors  such  as  Resistive,  capacitive,  inductive  and  resonant  transducers,  encoders,  piezoelectric
accelerometers and pressure sensors, ultrasonic flow meters, GPS sensor etc.
Sampling  rate  selection  for  sensors  [3  Lectures]:  Signal  to  noise  ratio,  power  requirements  for  wired  and
wireless sensors, Selection of D/A and A/D converters, quantization and measurement errors.
Introduction to actuators [5 Lectures]: Classification of actuators:  Basic working principles of DC motors, Stepper
Motors,  Pulse  width  modulation,  Hydraulic  and  pneumatic  actuation,  PLC  based  control  of  systems  with
solenoids and relays,
Microcontrollers [3 Lectures]: Basics of Microcontrollers and Interrupts and Low Power Features, interfacing of
sensors and actuators with microcontrollers.
Internet  of  Things  (IOT)  [3  Lectures]:  Fundamentals  of  IOT,  basic  communication  Networks,  Introduction  to
protocols such as Bluetooth Low Energy, ZigBee etc,
Connecting  Things  to  the  Cloud  [3  Lectures]:  Review  of  IOT  platforms,  Hands-on  project  of  a  sensor  based
Laboratory Classes (12 Classes):
1. Dissection and assembly of consumer appliances
2. Programmable logic controller (PLC) and Pneumatic circuits
3. Programmable logic controller for material handling system (conveyor belt)
4. Quanser CUBE servo control design with QUARC real time interface
5. Sensors and Internet of things project
6. MATLAB SIMULINK simulations
1.  Bolton, W., (2010), Mechatronics, 4th Edition, Addison Wesley
2.  R. Kamal (2017), Internet of things, Architecture and Design Principles, McGrawhill, First edition
3.  Fraden, J., (2004), Handbook of Modern Sensors Physics, Designs and Applications, 3rd Edition, Springer Verlag
4.  Histand & Aciatore, Introduction to mechatronics and measurement systems, McGraw Hill, 1999.
5.  Bradley, Dawson, Burd & Loader, ‘Mechatronics’, Chapman & Hall, 1993.
1.  NPTEL IIT Kharagpur: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105166/
2.  Stanford:  https://online.stanford.edu/courses/xee100-introduction-internet-things
3.  https://www.coursera.org/specializations/iot (basic raspberry pi and Arduino)
4.  Curtin university Micromasters program in IOT. https://news.curtin.edu.au/media-releases/curtin-offer-
Finite Element Methods and Applications
B.Tech (ME and CI)
Understand the fundamental concepts and formulation of the finite element methods for solving differential
equations arising in solid and fluid mechanics.
1. The application of finite element algorithms for structural, fluid mechanics and thermal applications.
2. Be able to formulate and solve basic problems in heat transfer, solid mechanics and fluid mechanics
Introduction [8 Lectures]: Basic concept of a finite element technique, Role of discretization, General procedure
for  finite  element  analysis,  Assumed  functions,  Comparison  between  FEM  solution  and  exact  solution;
Stiffness matrix,   spring  and bar elements;   Finite element formulation of axial rod and beam problems.
Truss and Frame Structures [5 Lectures]: Stiffness Method  Introduction;   Element  Transformation;   Boundary
conditions,      Constraint  forces,      Global  Stiffness    matrix;      Element  strain  and  stress;      Three  Dimensional
Trusses and Frames
Finite  Element  Formulation  of  Beam  Elements  [5  Lectures]:  Introduction;      Elementary  beam    theory;      Flexure
element stiffness matrix;   Boundary conditions,   constraint  forces,   Global stiffness matrix;   General three
dimensional beam element
Method  of  Weighted  Residuals  and  Interpolation  Functions  [6  Lectures]:  Introduction;      Completeness  and
compatibility;   Concept of interpolation functions;   Polynomial  forms,   geometric isotropic;    Triangular,
rectangular and three dimensional  elements;   Isoparametric formulation,   axisymmetric elements;   Numerical
Integration:   Gaussian Quadrature.
Finite  Element  Analysis  for  Plane  Stress  and  Plane  Strain  Problems  [8  Lectures]:  Basic    Equations;      Boundary
Conditions;   FEM Formulation;   Shape Functions;   Numerical  Evaluation of Elements Matrices and Vectors;
Global matrices;   Boundary  conditions and solutions; Thin plate  formulation;   Various thin plate elements;
Finite Element Analysis in Free and Forced Vibration Problems [5 Lectures]: Vibration of a rod;   Vibration of a beam;
Classification  of  partial    differential  equations;      Time  response  of  parabolic  equations;      Forced  vibration
Finite Element Analysis in Heat Transfer and Fluid Flows problems [5 Lectures) : Conduction, Convection and
Radiation conditions, Incompressible flows, Navier-Stokes equations including heat transfer, Acoustic fluids
coupled to structures, Navier-Stokes fluids coupled to structures
1. R.  D.   Cook, (2008),   Concepts and Applications of Finite Element Analysis,   John Wiley & Sons.
2. K.  J.   Bathe, (2002),   Finite Element Procedures in Engineering Analysis,   Prentice-Hall
3. S.   Moaveni, (2008),   Finite Element Analysis,   Theory & Application with ANSYS,   2nd Edition,   Prentice
4. D Hutton, (2009),  Fundamental of Finite Element Analysis,   McGraw-Hill,
5. J. N. Reddy,  (2005), An Introduction to the Finite Element Method, 3rd  edition , McGraw Hill Education;
6. Zienkiewicz and Taylor, ‘Finite Element Method’, 4th Edition, McGraw-Hill, UK, 1989.
1. To cover the fundamentals of vehicle dynamics
2. To appreciate the vehicle subsystem design issues
1. To be able to model and simulate dynamics of vehicles
2. To be able to analyze vehicle sub-systems
Introduction  [2  Lectures]:  History,  vehicle  classifications,  fundamental  approaches  to  vehicle  dynamics
modelling, motion analysis, force analysis
Acceleration Performance [6 Lectures]: Power train components; power-limited acceleration; traction limited
acceleration; transverse weight shift; front wheel drive vs rear wheel drive vs. all-wheel drive vehicles;
Braking Performance [6 Lectures]: Braking force analysis; brake design and analysis; federal regulation on braking
performance;  anti-lock  braking  system;  wheel  lock-up;  tire/road  friction;  safety  and  maintenance  issues  in
Tire and Tire Dynamics [6 Lectures]: Tire specifications and constructions; tire motion analysis; tire force analysis;
tire contact stress analysis;
Ride  [6  Lectures]:  Riding  comfort;  perception  of  vibration;  vibration  sources;  vibration  transmission  to  the
passengers; vibration models; vibration isolation techniques.
Cornering/steering  [6  Lectures]:  Lower  speed  cornering;  high  speed  corner;  cornering  bicycle  model;  steering
angle; over-steering vs. under-steering;
Chassis and Suspension Systems[6 Lectures]: General kinematics; vehicle constraint analysis; practical designs;
1.  Thomas Gillespie, Fundamentals of Vehicle Dynamics,  SAE Publication.
1.  Mike Blundell and Damian Harty , (2004),The Multibody systems Approach to Vehicle Dynamics, , Elsevier
2.  Vehicle Dynamics, (2009),  Theory and Application, Reza N. Jazar, Springer,
3.  Reimpell, Stoll and Betzler: The Automotive Chassis: Engineering Principles.
Experimental Modal Analysis  Number
Linear  algebra,  calculus  and
The Instructor will:
1.   To study theory and practice of experimental modal analysis for identification
of dynamic characteristics of structures
2. To study application of experimental modal analysis results for assessing
structural dynamic behaviour
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Understand  theory  of  experimental  modal  analysis  (theory  of  modal  analysis  and  signal  processing
2. Understand complete system and methods required for experimental modal analysis of any real life systems
(practical system like car etc.)
Overview [1 Lecture]: introduction of modal analysis
Theory  of  modal  analysis  [6  Lectures]:  single  degree  of  freedom  (SDoF)  system,  Theory  of  modal  analysis  for
undammed and damped multi degree of freedom (MDoF) system
Signal Processing related to experimental modal analysis [5 Lectures]: Fourier Transform, Digital Fourier Transform,
Aliasing, Windowing, Leakage
Experimental  Set-up  for  modal  analysis  [3  Lectures]:  Excitation  instruments,  response  measurements,  types  of
Modal parameter extraction [6 Lectures]: frequency domain methods, SDoF Methods and MDoF methods
Modal parameter estimation [6 Lectures]: Time domain methods
Model Validation [3 Lectures]: Modal scale factor, modal assurance criteria, mode phase collinearity and mode
Model Updating [4 Lectures]: Direct methods and Iterative methods
Multi-input multi-output modal analysis methods [5 Lectures]
Applications  of  EMA  [3  Lectures]:  structural  dynamic  modification,  coupled  structural  analysis  and  response
Obtaining modal parameters (natural frequencies and mode shapes) of a cantilever beam using impact hammer
and  accelerometer  (Hammer  roving  and  accelerometer  roving  case),  Obtaining  modal  parameters  (natural
frequencies and mode shapes) of a simply supported plate using impact hammer and accelerometer (Hammer
roving  and  accelerometer  roving  case),  Obtaining  modal  parameters  using  Laser  Doppler  Vibrometer  and
impact  hammer,  Obtaining  modal  parameters  (acoustic  mode  shapes)  of  rectangular  cavity  and  a  vibro-
acoustic rectangular cavity, Using modal parameters identified from experiment to update the models, Use of
update model for desired structural dynamic modification of a cantilever beam
1. Ewins, D. J., (1984), Modal testing: Theory and Practice, Research Studies Press Limited.
2. Avitabile, P. (2017), Modal Testing: A Practitioner's Guide, John Wiley & Sons.
3.  Heylen,  W.,  Lammens,  S.,  Sas,  P.(1998),  Modal  analysis  theory  and  testing,  Katholieke  Universiteit  Leuven,
Faculty  of  Engineering,  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering,  Division  of  Production  Engineering,
Machine Design and Automation, 2nd edition.
4. He, J. and Fu, Z. F. (2001), Modal Analysis, Butterworth-Heinemann 1st edition.
Techniques of  Noise Control
B.Tech (ME, CI)
Introduction to Acoustics
The Instructor will:
Provide background of feed forward and feedback control strategies for active control of sound
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Understand theory and application of single channel and multi-channel feed forward and feedback
control strategies for active control of sound
Introduction to acoustics [2 Lectures]
Frequency analysis [3 Lectures]
Linear systems and digital filters (FIR and IIR Filters) [5 Lectures]
Interference in plane wave sound fields [6 Lectures]: Sound fields in an infinite duct and enclosed fields,
physical mechanisms behind active minimization of acoustic energy in enclosed sound fields
Single channel feed forward control system [4 Lectures]
Single channel feedback control system [4 Lectures]
Global control of enclosed sound fields [6 Lectures]
Local control of enclosed sound fields [4 Lectures]
Multichannel feed forward control systems [4 Lectures]
Active suppression of free field radiation by point sources [4 Lectures]
1. Nelson, P. A., and Elliott, S. J. (1992). Active Control of Sound, Academic Press Limited, London.
2. Hansen, C. H. (2001). Understanding active noise cancellation, Spon Press, Taylor & Francis Group, London &
Nonlinear Oscillations and Chaos
B.Tech (ME, CI, EE, PH, MA)
Differential equations and linear algebra,
Engineering Mechanics, Mechanical vibrations
1.  To provide the fundamental understanding about nonlinear phenomena and associated different types of
2.  To provide different types of solution techniques of nonlinear equations
3.  To provide basics of bifurcations and principle of stability
4.  To enable different numerical techniques to solve nonlinear equations
5.  To highlight various route to chaos phenomena and its significant in the stability analysis of physical
1.  Understand fundamentals of nonlinear phenomena and associated different types of responses, Solution
techniques of nonlinear equations and
2.  Understand different aspects of bifurcations and principle of stability
3.  Get an idea of various route to chaos phenomena and its significant in the stability analysis of physical
Introduction [8 Lectures]: linear and nonlinear systems, conservative and non-conservative systems; potential
well, Phase planes, types of forces and responses; Local and global stability; Nonlinear phenomena.
Nonlinear equation of motion [6 Lectures]: Linearization techniques, ordering techniques; Duffing equation, Van
der Pol’s oscillator, Mathieu’s and Hill’s equations.
Perturbation Solution techniques [6 Lectures]: Harmonic balance, Linstedt-Poincare’, Method of Multiple Scales,
Averaging, incremental harmonic balance, modified Lindstedt Poincare’ techniques.
Stability and bifurcation analysis [8 Lectures]: static and dynamic bifurcations, different routes to chaotic response
Numerical  techniques  [8  Lectures]:  time  response,  phase  portrait,  FFT,  Poincare’  maps,  point  attractors,  limit
cycles  and  their  numerical  computation,  strange  attractors  and  chaos;  Lyapunov  exponents  and  their
determination, basin of attraction, fractal dimension.
Application  [6  Lectures]:  Single  degree  of  freedom  systems:  Free  vibration-Duffing’s  oscillator;  primary-,
secondary-and  multiple-  resonances;  Forced  oscillations:  Van  der  Pol’s  oscillator;  parametric  excitation:
Mathieu’s and Hill’s equations, Floquet theory; effects of damping and nonlinearity. Multi degree of freedom
and continuous systems.
1.  Nayfeh, A. H., and Mook, D. T., Nonlinear Oscillations, Wiley-Interscience,
2.  Hayashi, C. (1964), Nonlinear Oscillations in Physical Systems, McGraw-Hill.
3.  Nayfeh, A. H., and Balachandran, B. (1995),  Applied Nonlinear Dynamics, Wiley.
1.  Evan-Ivanowski, R. M., (1976), Resonance Oscillations in Mechanical Systems, Elsevier.
2.  Seydel, R., (1988), From Equilibrium to Chaos: Practical Bifurcation and Stability Analysis, Elsevier.
3.  Moon, F. C., (1992), Chaotic & Fractal Dynamics: An Introduction for Applied Scientists and Engineers, Wiley.
J.  S.,  Advanced  Theory  of  Vibration:  Nonlinear  Vibration  and  Onedimensional  Structures,  New  Age
B.Tech (ME, EE)
Mathematics, Basic Sciences, Engineering Mechanics,
Mechanical vibration, and Structural mechanics
1.  Provide the fundamentals of kinematics and kinetics of deformations of microsystem
2.  Highlights the interactions among thermal, electrical and mechanical effects in MEMS design
Students can able to
1.  Gain equivalent continuum mechanics to model nano-structures as sensors/actuators and energy
2.  Develop MEMS/NEMS models and their solutions
Introduction [8 Lectures]: Kinematics of deformations (Deformation gradient, different strain tensors, strain-rate
and rotation tensors, deformations of lines, surfaces and volumes); Kinetics of deformations; stress tensors;
Coulomb force; Van der Waals force; Casimir force; Maxwell equations.
Small-scale Mechanics[10 Lectures]: Lumped parameters micro-models; Micro-beams; Micro-plates; Governing
equations; Boundary Conditions; Elctromechanical instability; Thermal effect in MEMS design; Inertia Forces
and time-dependent voltage in MEMS design
Nanomechanics  [10  Lectures]:Equivalent  continuum  mechanics  for  nano  structures;  Nano-sensors;  Nano-
composites; Size dependency; Nonlocal continuum mechanics
1.  Elements of Continuum Mechanics, R. C. Batra, AIAA
2.  Fundamentals Of Continuum Mechanics, Stephen Bechtel &  Robert Lowe, ELSEVIER
3.  Nonlinear Differential Equations in Micro/nano Mechanics & Application in Micro/nano Structures and
Electromechanical Systems, Ali Koochi & Mohamadreza Abadyan
Principle of Vibration Control
Mathematics,  Basic  Sciences,  Solid  Mechanics,
Mechanical vibration, and Structural mechanics
This course has been developed with the objective of providing a broad overview of different passive, active
and semi-active vibration control strategies applied in Engineering fields.
Students can able to gain enhanced understanding of the principles and earn the requisiteconfidence to address
the new problems by themselves.
Introduction  [5  Lectures]:Overview  of  mechanical  vibration;  methods  and  strategies  of  vibration  control,
Vibration reduction at sources; Affecting factors to vibration control
Dynamics properties and selection of materials [5 Lectures]. Damping-stress relationships; selection of criteria of
structural  materials;  Design  for  enhancing  the  damping  capacity;  Stress-strain  relationship  of  viscoelastic
material; Complex stiffness model; Viscoelastic laminate
Dynamic Vibration Absorbers [6 Lectures]:Introduction; Dynamic Vibration Neutralizers; Self-tuned Pendulum
Neutralizer;  Optimum  Design  of  Damped  Absorbers;  Auxiliary  Mass  with  Damper;  Gyroscopic  Absorber;
Impact Absorber; Absorbers attached to Continuous Systems; Stability analysis
Vibration  Isolations[5  Lectures]:  Isolators  with  Complex  Stiffness;  Isolators  with  Coulomb  Damping;  Three
Element Isolators; Two-stage Isolators; Velocity Shock and Shock force
Active Vibration Control[6 Lectures]: Collocated and non-collocated control model; Lumped parameter models;
State-space model; Distributed parameter models; Centralized and de-centralized control
Vibration Damping and Absorption[5 Lectures]: Stability theorem of vibratory systems; Velocity, acceleration and
position feedback control
Actuators  and  Sensors[5  Lectures]:  Electrodynamics  actuators  and  sensors;  Magnetostrictive  materials,  Smart
fluids and actuators
Piezoelectric  Materials[5  Lectures]:  Introduction;  Electrically  shunted  piezoelectric  materials;  Piezoelectric
actuators and sensors; Semi-active vibration control
1.  Principle of Passive and Active Vibration Control, Mallik and Chatterjee, 2014
2.  Mechanical Vibrations, S S Rao, 2012
3.  Vibration Control of Active Structures : An Introduction, A. Preumont,  Kluwer Academic
4.  Vibration with Control, D. J. Inman, Wiley
Mechanics of Soft Materials
B. Tech (ME, BS & BE)
Mechanics of materials, Advanced mechanics of solids
The objective of the course is to provide an overview of the wide range of non-linear mechanical behaviours
displayed  by  soft  materials  and  tissues  together  with  a  basic  understanding  of  their  physical  origin,  to
familiarize  students  with  appropriate  mathematical  concepts  for  their  modelling,  and  to  illustrate  the
application of these concepts in different fields in mechanics.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand fundamentals and mathematical concepts of modelling the nonlinear material behaviour.
2.  Get an idea of various failure modes of soft materials and safe design of soft material based systems.
Introduction [4 Lectures]:Introduction to soft materials: rubber-like  materials, gels, soft biological tissues, etc.
Mathematical preliminaries [4 Lectures]: Physical quantities and their classification; scalars, vectors, and tensors;
index notation, vector products (dot, cross, and dyadic), representation of partial differentiation using comma
symbol, gradient, divergence, curl of tensors and their representation using index notation.
Non-linear  continuum  mechanics  [5  Lectures]:  Configurations  and  motion  of  continuum  bodies,  deformation
gradient, strain tensors, stress and the balance principles:
Conservation Equations [4 Lectures]: Conservation of mass, the momentum principles, the Cauchy stress tensor,
stress measures for large deformations, the equations of motion and symmetry of stress, balance of mechanical
energy, the principles of virtual work and power.
Hyperelastic materials [4 Lectures]: General remarks on constitutive modeling, isotropic hyperelastic materials,
incompressible hyperelastic materials, compressible hyperelastic materials,
Different forms of strain energy density functions [5 Lectures]: neo-Hoboken, Mooney Rivlin, Ogden, Gent, Arruda
Boyce  models,  etc.  elasticity  tensors,  anisotropic  hyperelastic  materials,  composite  materials  with  one
characteristic direction, materials with two characteristic directions, Fung’s model of biological tissue.
Viscoelastic Materials [3 Lectures]: Coupling of elasticity and fluidity, kinematics, multiplicative decomposition
of deformation gradient,
Rheological  models  [5  Lectures]:  concept  of  internal  variables,  dissipation  inequality,  constitutive  equations,
evolution equations, incompressibility.
Applications  [4  Lectures]:Homogeneous  deformation  of  hyperelastic  membranes  under  uniaxial  and  biaxial
loading, balloon inflation, inflation of an artery under blood pressure, creep phenomena,
Instabilities of soft materials [4 Lectures]: snap through instability, morphological instabilities: wrinkles, creases,
folds, and ridges. dielectric actuators.
1.  A. Freed, Soft solids, Birkhauser Verlag Ag, 2016.
2.  K. Volokh, Mechanics of soft materials, Singapore, Springer, 2016.
3.  G.A. Holzapfel, Nonlinear Solid Mechanics - A continuum approach for engineering, 2000
4.  L.R.G. Treloar, The physics of rubber elasticity, 3rd ed., 2005
5.  P. Haupt, Continuum Mechanics and Theory of Materials, 2nd ed., 2002
Product Design and Feasibility
B. Tech (ME, BS & BE)
Mechanics of materials, Advanced mechanics of solids
1.  To provide understanding of need of a new product and product life cycle
2.  To inculcate basic steps of visualizing product development
3.  To enable understanding of user experience, product form, human factors, and marketplace realities.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Enable to develop an engineering viewpoint for a specific product of societal use.
2.  Ability to design new products and processes
3.  Able to predict and assess the impact of specific products and their performance.
New Product [4 Lectures]:User-Centric Requirement, identifying customer needs, Need of a new product,
concept generation, symbols, semantics, syntax and usability, product life cycle, steps towards a successful
Design [7 Lectures]: Human use experience analysis, synthesis, sketching, analysis and selection of profitable
products, basic engineering, concept generation, detailed design, prototype a physical product and/or
service, product for an organization, product design and architecture.
Characteristics of a Design[7 Lectures]: Applications in product design, Problem identification and selection,
feasibility, viability, and human values towards a product, Analysis of functional Anatomy of function.
Primary versus secondary versus tertiary/unnecessary functions, Functional analysis: Functional Analysis
Sketching [7 Lectures]: Sketching in 3D, Designing in 3D, hand sketch to digital rendering, quality function
deployment, CAD based design and Ergonomics in product designs.
Manufacture [8 Lectures]:Design for Manufacture and Assembly, design guidelines for different
processes.  Ideation, Rapid prototyping and its application, design for manual assembly user testing,
iteration, and storytelling.
Materials [5 Lectures]: Durable products, non durable products, package designs, families of materials and
processes in this areas, Product prototyping and manufacturing technologies; Creativity and innovation in
Specification and Final Product [5 Lectures]:- Product performance test; Cost models for product design,
development and production; Marketing and product specification; Design protection and intellectual
1.  Baxter, M.,,Product design : a practical guide to systematic methods of new product development,
London: Chapman & Hall, 1996
1.  M.M Andereasen, Integrated Product Development, IFS Publications Ltd. / SpringerVerlag, Berlin, 1987.
2.  Woodson, W. E. (1981). Human Factors Design Handbook. New York, McGraw-Hill Book Company.
3.  Norman, D. (1989). The Design of Everday Things. New York, Doubleday Currency
4.  Powell, D. (1985). Design Rendering Techniques. London, Orbis Publishing Limited
5.  Asimow Morris; Introduction to Design, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1962.
6.  Pulos, Arthur, The American Design Ethic, MIT, USA, 1983.
7.  Roozenburg and Eekels, Product Design: Fundamentals and Methods, Publisher: JohnWiley & Sons Inc;
New Ed edition, 1995
Product Design and Development, IIT Roorkee, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112/107/112107217/#