Q.1 What is the Seat allocation procedure?
JOSAA seat allocation will be conducted in 6 rounds in addition of two rounds of mock seat
allocation. The student should have registered themselves and filled their choices to
participate in the seat allotment process. Next candidates will have to physically report
at their nearest reporting centers for document verification, and select their option among
freeze, slide and float.
Q.2 What are the different kinds of programs running at IIT Jodhpur?
You can find all the programs at IIT Jodhpur here :
Q.3 How do I fill up my choice for various undergraduate programs?
Check the cutoff marks of last year for desired branch and institute corresponding to your rank.
You must do choice filling in a range of few hundred greater and lesser ranking points.
While filling choice fill as many choices as possible as there is no restriction in no.
Q.6 What are the academic programs available and against which departments?
The Institute provides many B.Tech. Programs, namely:
B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) Program
B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) Program
B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering) Program
B.Tech. (Biotechnology) Program
B.Tech. (Artificial Intelligence and DataScience) Program
B.Tech. (Chemical Engineering) Program
B.Tech. (Materials Engineering) Program
B.Tech. (Civil and Infrastructure Engineering) Program
Other than these we have special program IIP, The Industry Immersion Program,
the unique flagship program of the Institute blends the classical classroom B.Tech.
Program with the 3-summer engagement in Industry.
The Institute offers the following Master of Science (M.Sc.) Programs:
The Institute offers the following Master of Technology (M.Tech.) Programs:
M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
M.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
The Institute offers a Phd. Program with specialization in the following disciplines:
Computer Science & Engineering
Humanities & Social Sciences
Institute also provide non degree program.
Follow this link for further information: http://iitj.ac.in/academics/index.php?id=programs
Q.4 Can I change my department post-admission?
Yes, you can change your branch post admission. At the end of your first year you can apply
for the branch change.
Follow this link for further information: Branch-Queries
Q.5 How easy is the branch change in IIT Jodhpur? What is the criterion
for the same?
Branch change strictly depend on your CGPA and that of your other interested peers in changin
their branches at the end of second semester. In case of tie in the CGPA, rank of JEE-ADV of
applicants will be considered.
The eligibility criteria are:
The cgpa at the end of second semester should be:
Greater than or equal to 7.0 for sc/st applicants
Greater than or equal to 8.0 for other applicants
The student should have passed all the courses till second semester (including the courses
in which S/X grades are awarded).
Strength constraints: the strength of any branch shall not exceed 105%of its sanctioned
strength, or fall below 90% of its existing strength as a result of branch change.
Q.9 What will be the courses in 1st semester of B.Tech?
In 1st semester of B.Tech most of the courses are common for all branches. As per previous year,
the common courses for mechanical, electrical,computer science,etc.
Follow this link for further information-
Q.6 Will we be buying books or we can get them from the library?
Books can be borrowed with a valid Institute Identity Card from the library. Library has a special
collection of textbooks for students belonging to SC/ST category, as per GoI norms. For issuing
these books, students can apply as per the announced schedule by the Book Bank student volunteers.
Q.7 What about laboratories & research facilities of IIT Jodhpur?
IIT Jodhpur has established good number of teaching and research laboratories and facilities,
which aid in elevating the students from minimalist academic concerns to inquisitive world of
scientific arena. Some of the laboratories are listed below:
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
Chemical Biology Laboratory
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
Electro Mechanical (EM) Energy Conversion Laboratory
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
Material Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
Samsung AR-VR Innovation Laboratory
Follow this link for further information-
For further queries mail us at wellbeing@iitj.ac.in