Every life form, beginning from microscopic bacteria to multicellular organisms, can be considered as a system
that  has  been  perfected  over  millennia  by  Evolution.  Beginning  from  thermodynamically  efficient  cellular
processes  to  the  molecular  motors  driving  the  bacterial  flagella,  each  product  of  evolution  is  an  optimized
engineering design that can be translated into real-life applications across disciplines. Today’s interdisciplinary
biology is well complemented by engineering domains including electronics, computer science, mechanics, and
materials engineering.  Computational biology, for example, permits solving biology problems using statistical,
artificial intelligence and machine learning approaches. Extensive use of computational biology is essential in
including  Genomics,  Proteomics,  Transcriptomics,  and  Metabolomics.  This
amalgamation  of  biology  and  computer  science  has  transformed  the  landscape  of  the  infectious  and  non-
infectious diseases research allowing the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic modalities. Today’s
disease  diagnosis  is  much  more  specific  and  sensitive,  thanks  to  biosensors,  which  have  far-reaching
applications  not  only  in  healthcare  but  also  in  the  environment,  energy,  and  agriculture.  Some  applications
include in-situ biosensors for human biochemical parameters, environmental contaminants, soil moisture, soil
physicochemical parameters, etc. Advances in Biology have not only permitted the early diagnosis of disease
but have also contributed abundantly to therapeutic interventions. It is now possible to intervene in diseases
taking  a  multi-pronged  approach,  including  the  development  of  new  drugs;  production  of  recombinant
therapeutics;  development  of  implantable  sensors,  control  systems;  and  editing  genetic  defects.  Similarly,
synthetic biology and genome editing tools have enabled the development of industrially important organisms
for biofuel production as well as environmental remediation. Together, these technologies have significantly
contributed to extending the healthy lifespan of the human race and have shown promise towards food, water,
and energy security. In other words, bioengineering as a discipline has evolved to a great extent in last couple
of decades and now demands a different intellectual outlook and scientific understanding for its further study.
Therefore,  an  undergraduate  academic  program  in  Bioengineering  should  reflect  this  rapid  evolution  of  the
discipline, underlying scientific and technological advancements and interdisciplinary cross talk so as to capture
the mind of the next generation.
The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is committed to achieving excellence in shaping the young minds
of tomorrow with a unique blend of teaching techniques and hands-on research-based learning. The Institute
works towards the holistic development of students allowing them to be able to assume leadership positions in
Industry,  Academia,  and  Entrepreneurial  ventures.  The  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  is
committed to this goal and has developed academic programs that are interdisciplinary in nature and include
a substantial component of courses from other science and engineering Departments. The Department aspires
to  produce  Graduates,  who  can  develop  solutions  to  tackle  local  and  global  problems  related  to  healthcare,
energy, environment, water, and food.
2. Objectives of the program
The B. Tech. program in Bioengineering at IIT Jodhpur aims to equip our graduates with in-depth knowledge
and  hands-on  training  in  areas  that  will  be  relevant  for  the  next  decade.  The  curriculum  aims  to  impart
knowledge and skills to budding engineers to address future challenges. This includes innovative pedagogy
and highly interdisciplinary approach towards problem-solving.
The key objectives of this program are:
1.  To provide a strong foundational understanding of concepts in biology, engineering, mathematics, and allied
sciences, enabling students to approach bioengineering problems through interdisciplinary lenses.
2.  To stimulate the development of disruptive technologies and futuristic research in the domains of healthcare,
energy, and the environment
3. Expected Graduate Attributes
1.  Graduates of the B. Tech program in Bioengineering will:
2.  be  able  to  choose,  design,  develop,  and  implement  engineering  solutions  to  solve  technical  problems  in
bioscience and bioengineering using trans-disciplinary knowledge and skill set.
3.  be able to think out-of- the box to solve critical challenges and be able to innovate novel technologies for
affordable healthcare, clean energy, sustainable agriculture, and safe environment.
4.  be able to work effectively as a member and leader in a multi-disciplinary team.
5.  have the requisite skills and knowledge to be bio-entrepreneurs.
6.  be  able  to  effectively  communicate  biological/  bioengineering  problems  and  solutions  within  the
professional sphere and with the society at large.
7.  be committed to high ethical standards in professional and social practices.
4. Learning Outcomes
1.  Graduates of the B. Tech program in Bioengineering:
2.  Will  have  comprehensive  understanding  of  the  essential  concepts  of  bioscience  and  bioengineering
encompassing  cell  and  molecular  biology,  physiology,  immunology,  microbiology,  genetics,  genetic
engineering, multi-omics, computational and systems biology.
3.  Will gain trans-disciplinary knowledge and skill sets pertaining to biosensors, bioimaging, biomedical device
development, biomaterials engineering and drug discovery.
4.  Will be able to design, develop and implement technological solutions related to affordable healthcare, clean
energy, sustainable agriculture and safe environment adopting a trans-disciplinary approach.
5.  Will gain a strong understanding of the fundamentals of basic science, engineering, designing, computing
and will get hands-on training on cutting edge technologies.
6.  Will  be  able  to  apply  the  knowledge  of  artificial  intelligence  and  machine  learning  in  solving  complex
7.  Will learn to think critically to solve complex problems pertaining to bioscience and bioengineering.
8.  Will develop communication skills (verbal and written) to communicate effectively in the professional and
9.  Will be committed to high ethical standards.
10. Will gain the knowledge and skills required to be an innovator-entrepreneur.
5. New skillsets targeted
1.  Design and develop AI-based technologies in healthcare, environment, and agriculture.
2.  Analyze spatial complexity of living systems using imaging and image processing.
3.  Analyze and solve complex problems in the diverse fields of bioscience and bioengineering using omics
and systems biology.
4.  Integrate multidisciplinary technologies for the development of lab-on-chip devices, biosensors, and other
5.  Integrate omics data to quantitative structure-activity relationship for drug discovery and development
6.  Design and develop smart biomaterials using micro- and nano-scale technologies
7.  Design novel strategies for tissue engineering application
8.  Design new therapeutic molecule in silico.
6. Topic clouds and Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed courses
Table 1 Topics and Mapping of Topic with Courses
Cells and organelles
Transcription and translation
DNA, RNA, Proteins,
Polymerase chain reaction
Core and Techniques
Core and Techniques
Core, Techniques and
Core and Techniques
Core and Techniques
Biological networks and
Omics analysis algorithms
Deep learning models
Deep generative  models
Core, Techniques and
Core, Techniques and
Concepts & Dynamics:
Molecular Cell Biology
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
Genetics & Gene
Manipulation (PC 5th)
Molecular Cell Biology
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
methods for multi-
Omics  (PC 6th)
Deep Learning  (PC
machine Learning (PC
Engineering (PC 6th)
Cell adhesion on substrate
Core and Techniques
Tissue repair and regeneration
Animal cell culture
Core, Techniques and
Sustained, on-demand and
Drug loading and drug release
Core, Techniques and
Field deposition model (FDM)
Selective laser sintering
Core and Systems
Core and Techniques
Numerical Methods for PDE
Core and Techniques
Methods and method
development in computational
Core, Techniques and
Engineering (PC 6th)
Engineering (PC 6th);
Engineering (PC 6th)
Engineering (PC 6th)
Engineering (PC 6th)
(From BSBE, CHE,
System Biology (PC
Molecular Cell Biology
(PE) (From MA)
Biology (PC 5th)
Algorithms in biology
Core and Techniques    Modelling biological
Design of experiments
Core, Techniques and
Bioimaging (PC 6th)
Fourier transform theory
2D, 3D registration
Electron scattering and
Scanning and transmission
Immuno and cryo-electron
Genetic circuits for
Selectivity and sensitivity
amperometric, electrical, optical
RNA based sensors
Dendrimer based sensor
Bio-geo chemical cycling
Solid waste management
In situ and ex situ
Probiotic, symbiotic, plant –
Single cell protein
Core, Techniques and
Core and Systems
processing (PE) (From
Bioimaging (PC 6th)
(PE) (From CS)
Bioimaging (PC 6th)
for biology (PE)
Bioimaging (PC 6th)
Biosensors (PC 5th)
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
Whole cell based
Biosensors (PC 5th)
Biosensors (PC 5th)
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
Microbes in food and
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
Solid , liquid, gaseous
biofuels and sustainability analysis
Engineering microbes for
Different generations of
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
Core and Techniques
Core, Techniques and
Structural Biology (PC
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
Principles of Drug
Structural Biology (PC
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
Core and Techniques
Chiral drug molecule
Antibiotics and antiviral
Virus life cycle
Core, Techniques and
Viral infection and
B- and T-cell lymphocytes
Core and Techniques
The Human Immune
to Detect, Defend and
Attack (PC 4th)
The Human Machine
Physiology (PC 5th)
7. Course Categories, credit distribution and Credit Structure of B. Tech Programmes
Table 2 Proposed Course Categories and credit distribution in the proposed B. Tech Programmes
Institute Core (I)
Programme Linked (L)  Science (LS)
Programme Core (P)
Programme Compulsory (PC)
Programme Electives (PE)
B.Tech. Project (PP)
Open Electives (OE)
Engineering Science Core (EC)
Engineering Science Elective (EE)
Design/Practical Experience (ND)
Total Graded + Non-Graded
8. Credit Structure of B. Tech Programmes
Table 4 Credit Structure for B. Tech Programmes (Up 6000 Level)
1 hour of Lecture
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Lab/Project
L-T-P  Distribution of contact and beyond contact hours
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc.
9. List of Programme Compulsory Courses
Table 5 Programme Compulsory Courses
S. No  Course Name
Data Structures and Algorithms
Concepts and Dynamics: Molecular Cell
The Human Immune System: Mechanisms
to detect, defend and Attack
Computational and Systems Biology
The Human Machine for Engineers:
Biophysics and Structural Biology
Genetics and Gene manipulation
10. Area-wise Programme Elective Courses
Table 6 Stream-wise Programme Electives Courses
l  and  Systems
Microbiomes and metagenomics (level 4)
Computational methods for multi-omics (level
Microarray data analysis (level 4)
Cell-material interactions (level 4)
Tissue engineering (level 4)
Therapeutic delivery systems (level 4)
Principles of biomechanics (level 4; from ME)
Additive manufacturing (level 7; from ME)
Mathematical biology (level 4; from MA)
Algorithms in biology (level 4)
Modelling of biological systems (level 4)
Design of experiments (level 4; from MA)
Electron microscopy for biology (level 4/6; from
biotechnology (level 4)
Special topics on biomedical imaging (level 4)
Digital Image processing (level 4; from CS)
Bio-image computing (level 7; CS)
Whole cell based biosensors (level 4)
Special topics in biosensors (level 4)
Microsystems fabrication technology (level 7;
Chemosensors (level 6; from CY)
Microbial remediation and environmental
Microbes in food and sustainable agriculture
Bioenergy (level 4)
Principles of drug discovery (level 4)
Medicinal chemistry (level 4)
Viral infection and antiviral drug development
11. Specialization to be offered by the department
Table 7 Specialization and courses
Specialization Core (8 credits)
Specialization Elective (12 Credits)
•  Modern approaches of drug
• Principles of drug discovery (3-0-
•  Introduction to Precision Medicine
• Medicinal chemistry (3-0-0)
• Viral infection and antiviral drug
•  AI based drug discovery (2-0-0)
• Anti-microbial drug and drug
• Anticancer drug discovery and
• Modern approaches for
• Novel Drug Delivery Systems (3-
• Theranostic Systems (3-0-0)
• Industry collaborated project
4 credit (0-0-6) x 1
• Microbial Nanotechnology (3-0-0)
• Metabolic Engineering for
2  Microbial systems
• Engineering Microbes (3-0-0)
• Bioprocess Engineering and
• Mathematical modelling of microbes
• Microbial remediation and
• Microbes in food and sustainable
• Bioenergy (3-0-0)
• Soil Microbiome & Microbial
• Biofilms: Bacterial communities
• Gut microbiomes in health and
• Downstream processing (3-0-0)
• Industry collaborated project
4 credit (0-0-6) x 1
12. Curriculum of B.Tech. Bioengineering (Regular)
Table  8a. Curriculum of B.Tech in BB
CH  NC  GC
ion Skill I
IS  Mathematics II
NE  Engineering Design
Social Connect and
IE  Materials Science &
Data Structure and
The Human Immune
to Detect, Defend
IH  Humanities I
PP  B. Tech.
PE  Program Elective -II
Professional Ethics II
IH  Humanities IV
Open Electives -III &
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit   9
Non-Graded Design Credits  6
Grand Total   1
Distribution of courses in 7th & 8th Semester for specialization
PP  B. Tech. Project
Open Electives -
IH  Humanities III
IH  Humanities IV
Open Electives -III &
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit   9
Non-Graded Design Credits
Total  16-0-8  24
Table 8b. Curriculum of B.Tech.in AI/CS/EE Engineering
Grand Total   15  175
IS  Chemistry Lab
IS  Physics Lab
IS  Mathematics II
-  NE  Engineering
IE  Materials Science
IS  Mathematics I
NH  Social Connect
NH  Performing Arts
I /Sports I
PC  Data Structures
1. 6 × (1-0-0)
2. 4 × (0-0-1)
3. 2 × (0-1-0)
IH  Humanities I
1. 12× (1-0-0)
2. 8 × (0-0-1)
3. 2× (0-1-0)
IH  Humanities II
PP  B. Tech. Project
IH  Humanities III
1. 12× (1-0-0)
2. 8× (0-0-1)
3. 2× (0-1-0)
IH  Humanities IV
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit   9
Non-Graded Design Credits
Grand Total   15  165
13. Curriculum of Double B.Tech. :B.Tech. Bioengineering and Engineering Science
Table 9. Programme structure of Double B.Tech.
CH  NC  GC
First two semesters same as Table 8a or 8 b
33 Graded and 6 non graded credits
ES  Morden Physics
IE  Materials Science
3  ES  Embedded
Systems and IoT
ES  Data Structures and
Signals and Systems
Intro. To Profession
4  ES  Design of
4  ES  Control Systems
IH  Humanities I
Genetics and Gene
NH  Professional Ethics
-  NH  Professional
B. Tech. Project
IH  Humanities III
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit   9
Grand Total   15
Non-Graded Design Credits
Note: ES are proposed Engineering Science compulsory courses
14. Detailed Course Content of Programme Compulsory Courses
Biosciences & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
Introduce basic chemical properties of biomolecules and principles governing chemical properties of cell.
The students will have the ability to:
Understand the structure-function relationship of biomolecules in living system.
Chemistry of Lipids [5 Lectures]: Classes of Lipids and their structure; Membrane Lipids and their properties; Bio
membrane organization; Sterols; Membrane Transport
Chemistry of Amino Acids [5 Lectures]: Amino acid structure and properties; Peptide bond; acid-base chemistry
of amino acids;  isoelectric point
Chemistry  of  Proteins  [5  Lectures]:  Protein  structure  and  its  importance;  Enzymes;  Michaelis-Menten  kinetics;
Nucleic acid chemistry [5 Lectures]: Nucleotides; DNA; RNA; Types of RNA
Properties of Carbohydrates [4 Lectures]: Aldoses, Ketoses; Epimers; Mutarotation; Glycosidic bond
Carbohydrates  Chemistry  [5  Lectures]:  Common  polysaccharides;  Reducing  &  Non  reducing  sugars;
Bioenergetics  [5  Lectures]:  Catabolism;  Anabolism;  Energy  Coupling;  High  energy  bonds  formation  and
Metabolic pathways [5 Lectures]: Glycolysis; TCA, Electron Transport Chain, Calvin cycle, Reverse TCA
Active learning component [3 Lectures]: Flipped classroom (group presentations), debates, case studies on applied
biochemistry, group discussions, think-pair-share
D. L. Nelson and M. N. Cox, Lehninger Principles of Biochemistry, WH Freeman, (2012), Sixth Edition.
D. Voet, C. W. Pratt and J. G. Voet, Principles of Biochemistry, Wiley (2012), Fourth  Edition.
S  Dasgupta,  Biochemistry  I,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Kharagpur,
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Give students foundational knowledge on the microbial world
2. Provide context as to how these microbes play an essential role in human health and environment
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the biology of microbes and how they impact life on earth
2. Explore unique structure-function relationships in microbes
3. Analyse the diversity in microbial metabolism and its adaptability to environmental changes
Introduction: the ubiquitous micro-organisms, microbial cell structure and function, primitive microbes to
modern ones; bacteria, fungi, algae, protozoa and viruses (5 lectures)
Microbial nutrition and metabolism: nutritional classification of microbes, basics of metabolism (4 lectures)
Metabolic pathways: Overview of catabolic and anabolic pathways and diversity in microbial metabolism (5
Microbial growth and kinetics: Different phases of microbial growth, formulation of culture medium, batch
and continuous systems (5 lectures)
Microbial evolution: systematics and taxonomy, Different classes of bacteria (4 lectures).
Applications of Microbes: production of microbial metabolites & industrial Microbiology (4 lectures)
Microbial ecology: methods, ecosystems, nutrient cycling (4 lectures)
Environmental Microbiology: bioremediation, role of microbes in wastewater treatment and toxic waste
treatment (4 lectures)
Medical Microbiology: interaction of microbes with higher organisms, microbial diseases ( 4 lectures)
Food Microbiology: microbial spoilage of food, prevention of food spoilage, microbial activity in various
kinds of foods (3 lectures).
Biosafety, Microscopic examination of microbial world - Staining; Preparation and sterilization of microbial
growth  media,  Microbial  motility  and  Chemotaxis;    Cultivating  microbes  by  streak  plate  and  pour  plate
method.  Enumeration of microbes by turbidometry; Microbial enumeration by plate count; Effect of pH and
temperature on microbial growth; Safely discarding microbial cultures
1.  R. Y. Stanier, General Microbiology, Macmillan (1999), 5th edition.
2.  M. Pelczar, A. Chen, A. Krieg, Microbiology, Tata McGraw Hill Education (2001), 5th edition.
3.  R. M. Atlas, R. Bartha Microbial Ecology: Fundamentals and applications, Pearson, (1997), 4th edition.
1.  Brock, et al., Biology of Microorganisms, Benjamin Cummings (2012), 13th edition
2. D. L. Nelson and M. N. Cox, Lehninger Principles of Biochemistry, WH Freeman, (2012), Sixth Edition.
3. P. Harley, Klein’s Microbiology, McGraw Hill Higher Education, (2008), 7th edition,
Online Course Material
David Schauer, and Edward DeLong. 20.106J Systems Microbiology. Fall 2006. Massachusetts Institute of
Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
The Human Immune System: Mechanisms to Detect,
Defend and Attack
Biosciences & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an overview of the human immune system and its components
2. Emphasize immune responses in context of bacterial, viral and parasitic infections.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Evaluate applications of immunology in industry
2.   Apply their knowledge for design of immunological experiments
Immunology-fundamental  concepts  and  anatomy  of  the  immune  system  [8  Lectures]:  Components  of  innate  and
acquired immunity; complement and inflammatory responses; Innate immune response; mucosal immunity;
antigens and immunogens, haptens; Major Histocompatibility complex and disease susceptibility.
Immune  responses  generated  by  B  and  T  lymphocytes  [6  Lectures]:  Immunoglobulins  -  structure,  function
signalling, kinetics of immune response, memory;
B cell and T-cell maturation, activation and differentiation[6 Lectures]: antigen processing and presentation, cell-
cell co-operation, Hapten-carrier system.
Antigen-antibody  interactions  [8  Lectures]:  Precipitation,  agglutination  and  complement  mediated  immune
reactions  and  associated  immunological  techniques,  cell  cytotoxicity  assays,  microarrays,  transgenic  mice,
Clinical immunology [14 Lectures]: Immunity to infection, hypersensitivity: Type I-IV; autoimmunity; treatment
of  autoimmune  diseases;  transplantation:  immunological  basis  of  graft  rejection;  tumor  immunology  ;
Immunodeficiencies; anaphylactic shock, immune tolerance, neuroinflammatory diseases, immunotherapy.
1. K. Murphy, P. Travers, M. Walport, C. Janeway, Janeway’s Immunobiology. New York: Garland Science (2012)
1. T. J. Kindt, R. A. Goldsby, B. A. Osborne, J. Kuby. Kuby Immunology. New York: W.H. Freeman (2002), First
2. J. Brostoff, J. K. Seaddin, D. Male, I. M. Roitt, Clinical Immunology. London: Gower Medical Pub (2002), First
Cellular and molecular immunology, Fall 2005, MIT OpenCourseWare Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
Concepts and dynamics: molecular cell
Biosciences & Bioengineering
The instructor will:
1.  Offer  both  basic  and  advance  concepts  in  cellular  and  molecular  biology.  The  focus  of  the  course  is  to
provide basic understanding of functional machineries of cells.
2. Apprise the students about the dynamics of cellular processes and the regulatory mechanisms involved.
The students are expected to:
Have the ability to understand the structure and function of cells as a fundamental unit of life.
Cell organelles and cellular signalling [5 Lectures]: Structure and function of cellular organelles
Cellular architecture [5 Lectures]: Cytoplasmic and nuclear compartment, basic protein structure and cellular
Cell division and proliferation [5 Lectures]: Biological principles of mitosis and meiosis; difference of cell
division among prokaryotes and eukaryotes and cell cycle regulation in health and diseases.
Mechanisms of cell death & diseases [5 Lectures]: phases and significance linked with apoptosis, morphological
and biochemical changes associated with apoptotic cells.
Regulation of gene expression [4 Lectures]: DNA replication, prokaryotic & eukaryotic transcription prokaryotic
transcription; transcription unit and TATA binding proteins, translation.
Cellular  quality  control  mechanisms  [4  Lectures]:  cellular  stress  conditions  and  their  effects;  protein  quality
control mechanisms and nucleic acid quality control mechanism.
Laboratory experiments: bacterial transformation, mammalian cells transfections; DNA gel electrophoresis;
cell  death  assays;  localization  of  proteins  in  different  cellular  compartments;  DNA  ligation  and  digestion;
animal cell culture and immunocytochemistry.
1. B. Alberts., Molecular Biology of the cell,  Garland Science, 2014,  6th Edition
2. G. Karp and N. L Pruitt., Cell and Molecular Biology, John Wiley and Sons, 2016, 8th Edition
1. L. Benjamin, Gene IX, Jones and Barlett Publishers, 2007, 9th Edition
2. J.D. Watson,  Molecular Biology of the Gene, Benjamin Cummings, 2007, 6th Edition
on  Molecular  Cell
Biology,  Devarajan  Karunagaran,
Biosciences & Bioengineering
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
The Instructor will:
Give hands-on training on standard biochemical techniques and its applications.
The students will be able to:
Perform and implement biochemical techniques in research and industrial applications.
Identification of biomolecules in samples: proteins, carbohydrates and lipids
Protein isolation and purification: salting out, chromatography (ion-exchange and affinity), SDS-PAGE
Characterization  of  proteins  using  spectroscopic  techniques:  absorbance,  fluorescence  and  secondary  structure
Protein estimation by different methods: BCA, Bradford and Lowry
Identification and quantification of nucleic acids: absorbance and gel based methods
D. K. Geetha Practical Biochemistry, Jaypee Brothers Medical Publishers (2016) 2nd Edition.
Elizabeth  Taylor.  5.36  Biochemistry  Laboratory.  Spring  2009.  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology:  MIT
Course Title  Computational and Systems Biology  Course No.
Pre-requisite  Basic  understanding  of  molecular
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
biology and computation
1.  To train the students in the interdisciplinary areas on the interface of biology and computation.
2.  To provide fundamental understanding of methods in computational biology along with hand on
1.  Application of computational methods for modelling biological systems.
2.  Ability to model and infer from biological models.
Genome and Sequences [Lectures 2]: Sources of information  of biological origin, gene  and protein sequences,
sequence homology and its biological significance (2 lectures)
Building  biological  databases  with  SQL  [Lectures  6]  :  Common  database  types,  relational  database  design  (3
lectures), database access using SQL (2 lectures), biological databases (1 lecture)
Sequence  Alignment  [Lectures  10]:  Need  for  aligning  biological  sequences,  Smith-Waterman  algorithm,
Needleman-Wunsch algorithm (4 lecture), Multiple Sequence Alignment (2 lecture) , Phylogeny (2 lecture),
Applications, BLAST (2 lecture)
Gene and promoter prediction [Lectures 4]: Gene prediction, promoter and regulatory element prediction
Protein Structure Prediction [Lectures 6]: Protein folding (1 lecture), Ab initio and knowledge-based prediction
of structures, Force fields (3 lectures), Homology modelling (2 lectures)
Introduction to Mathematical Modelling [2 lecture]: Introduction to Modelling, why model biological systems?,
examples of models, the modelling process, scope/assumptions, types of models
Introduction to Static Networks [12 lectures]: Representation of Biological Networks (1 lecture), Introduction to
Network Biology (3 lectures), Network Topology, Power-law Networks/Network Perturbations (3 lectures),
Community Detection / Network Motifs (3 lectures), Reconstruction of Gene networks (2 lectures)
Laboratory [10-12 Sessions]
Database searches and data retrieval, Database creation and data retrieval using MySQL, Writing code for
translation  of  nucleic  acid  sequence  to  protein  sequence,  Writing  code  for  dynamic  programming  and
performing global alignment, Pairwise sequence alignment: BLAST, Multiple Sequence alignment: CLUSTAL
OMEGA, Gene prediction tools (Glimmer, GeneMark) Visualisation and analysis of 3D-structures of proteins
and protein-ligand  interactions using graphics tool (RasMol), Homology modelling using SWISS-MODEL,
Network  Biology  (Cytoscape),  Network  Biology  (Topologies),  Motif  and  module  detection,  Parameters  of
network (Cytoscape),, Network Perturbations, reconstruction of gene regulatory network
D.  Mount,  Bioinformatics:  Sequence  and  Genome  Analysis,  Cold  Spring  Harbor  laboratory  Press  (2004),
1.  R.  Durbin,  S.  Eddy,  A.  Krogh,  G.  Mitchison,  Biological  Sequence  Analysis,  Cambridge  University  Press
(1998) First Edition.
2. C. Branden, J. Tooze, Introduction to Protein Structure, Garland Science (1999) Second Edition.
3.  P  Baldi,  S  Brunak,  Bioinformatics:  The  Machine  Learning  Approach,  Bradford  Publishers  (2001) Second
1. NPTEL course link: Bioanalytical Techniques And Bioinformatics (http://nptel.ac.in/courses/102103044/)
2. Video  lectures  on  Foundation  of  Computational  and  Systems  Biology,  MIT  Open  Courseware,
3. Lecture Notes for Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology and Genomics by Prof. Mona Singh,
The Human Machine for Engineers:
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an understanding of the hierarchical organization of chemical and electrical signals and control
mechanisms for energy, mechanics, flow and transport.
2. Provide an understanding of the workings of the human body in context of engineering principles so as to
develop an interdisciplinary outlook to biological as well as engineering problem-solving.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Understand and analyse basic human physiology from an quantitative perspective
2. Imagine engineering solutions that can solve biological problems and/or get inspired by biology to solve
Physical and Chemical Foundations of Physiology [6 Lectures]: Homeostasis, feedback control systems, pressure
driven flow, electrochemical potential and free energy, membrane transport across a biological membrane.
Physiology of excitable Cells [10 Lectures]: The origin of the resting membrane potential, GHK equation, action
potentials,  membrane  excitability,  modeling  action  potentials,  saltatory  conduction,  skeletal  muscle
mechanics, neuromuscular transmission, excitation–contraction coupling motor units, type of contractions,
fatigue and tetanus.
Cardiovascular  Physiology  [7  Lectures]:  electricity  in  cardiac  cells,  control  of  cardiac  automaticity,  ECG,
cardiovascular  mechanics,  and  dynamics,  microcirculation  control  mechanisms,  cerebral  and  pulmonary
circulation, congestive heart failure, shock,
Pulmonary Physiology[6 Lectures]: breathing, resistance to air flow, alveolar gas exchange, acid-base balance,
neural control of respiration.
Renal Physiology [13 Lectures]:  Body fluid compartments and overview  of renal function, Measurements of
function and clearance, Glomerular filtration/Renal Hemodynamics, Tubular transport of electrolytes and
water, Concentration and dilution of urine, Regulation of sodium balance, extracellular volume and Blood
pressure, Renal mechanisms of hypertension.
1. J. Feher Quantitative Human Physiology, Academic Press, 2nd Edition (2016).
2. K. E. Barrett, S. M. Barman, Ganong’s Review of Medical Physiology, McGraw Hill Education, 26th Edition,
1. E.N. Marieb Human Anatomy and Physiology, Pearson Education (2006), 6th Edition.
2. W. F. Boron, E. L. Boulpaep Medical Physiology, Elsevier (2017) 3rd Edition.
1. Dennis Freeman, 6-021j Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues, Fall 2004, MIT OpenCourseWare
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
2. Venegas, J, Mark, F. Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems, MIT OpenCourseWare
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
Biophysics and Structural Biology
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The instructor will provide
1.  In-depth  understanding  of  three  dimensional  structure  of  bio-macromolecules  and  macromolecular
assemblies governing the cellular life.
2. Introductory idea of the state of the art tools and techniques in understanding the interactions of
After completion of the course the students are expected to have the ability to -
1. Conceptualize the basic principles of macromolecular structural assembles and their implications in the
regulation of biological phenomena.
2. Understand the basic principles of modern day techniques of structural biology and their applications in
Structural  hierarchy  of  macromolecules  [14  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  structural  biology,  structure-  function
relationship  (5  Lectures);  protein  folding  and  its  regulation,  Role  of  chaperones  (4  Lectures);  higher  order
protein assembly, Structural basis of eukaryotic DNA compaction, molecular machines (5 Lectures).
Determination  of  macromolecular  structure  [14  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  macromolecular  crystallography:
Macromolecular  crystallization  methods  and  basics  of  crystal  symmetry  (5  Lectures);  Analysis  of  X-ray
diffraction  data  and  validation  of  crystal  structure  (5  Lecture);  Small  Angle  X-ray  Scattering  (SAXS)  and
Neutron diffraction to study macromolecular structures (4 Lecture).
Biophysics  of  macromolecular  interactions  [14  Lectures]:  Physical  forces  in  macromolecular  interactions  (2
lectures), protein -protein and protein  -nucleic acid interactions (3 lectures),  structure of heme, myoglobin
and  haemoglobin,  oxygen  binding  mechanism  (3  lectures),  Bohr  effect,  Energetics  of  active  transport  (3
lectures), Principles of spectroscopic methods for studying macromolecular interaction (3 lectures).
1. Introduction to Macromolecular Structure
2. Retrieving biochemical information from protein primary structure.
3. Prediction of protein 3D structure model from amino acid sequence
4.Validation of protein 3D structure model
5. Analysis of protein 3D structure -
a. Overall structure and enzyme active site
b. Enzyme allosteric site
c. Enzyme substrate specificity
d. Enzyme inhibition by small molecule/peptide
6. Protein -small molecule docking and analysis
7. Protein-protein docking and analysis
8. Protein-DNA docking and analysis
9. Analysis of the effect of mutation(s) in protein interactions
1. A. M. Pherson,  Introduction to Macromolecular Crystallography, Wiley-Blackwell (2009), 2nd Edition.
2. W. Bialek, Biophysics – Searching for Principles, Princeton University Press (2012).
3. R. Glaser, Biophysics: An Introduction, Springer (2012) 2nd edition.
1. D. Voet, C. W. Pratt and J. G. Voet, Principles of Biochemistry, Wiley  (2012), Fourth Edition.
Genetics and Gene Manipulation
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide an overview of the principles of heredity and gene manipulation
2.  Highlight how gene manipulation can be applied to engineer simple and complex life forms and safety
considerations associated with genetic engineering
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Choose the best method to manipulate DNA for genetic engineering applications
2.  Engineer simple biological systems for biotechnological applications
3.  Practise safety and ethical considerations while manipulating and engineering biological systems
Fundamentals of Genetics [18 Lectures]: Introduction, genetic distances, chromosome mapping, natural selection,
crossovers  and  recombination  (6  lectures),  genetic  drift,  effect  measures  (6  lectures),  study  designs,  Hardy-
Weinberg law, linkage disequilibrium, linkage and association analysis, principles of inheritance, simple and
complex diseases, heritability estimation, genetic markers, DNA fingerprinting (6 lectures)
Gene Manipulation [12 Lectures]: Polymerase Chain Reaction (2 lectures), DNA modifying enzymes (1 lecture),
strategies  for  gene  cloning  (3  lectures),  gene  editing  (1  lecture),  vectors,  selection  &  screening  (2  lectures),
sequencing DNA (1 lecture), heterologous expression of genes (2 lectures)
Genetic Engineering [6 Lectures]: Gene transfer to animal cells & transgenic animals (2 lectures), gene transfer to
plant cells & transgenic plants (2 lectures), genetically modified organisms (2 lectures)
Applications of Genetic Engineering [4 Lectures]: Production of important metabolites (1 lecture), introducing new
traits, improving existing traits (1 lecture), gene therapy,  development of model systems, animal cloning (2
Ethical & Safety Considerations [2 Lectures]: Biosafety considerations for recombinant DNA research (1 lecture),
Ethical considerations for Genetic Engineering (1 lecture)
Laboratory Experiments (12 exercises)
Cloning strategies; Transformation, Selection & Screening; Clone confirmation & Sequencing of cloned DNA;
Directional cloning; Heterologous protein expression; Site directed mutagenesis
1. S. B. Primrose, and R. M. Twyman, Principles of Gene Manipulation & Genomics, Blackwell Publishing
(2006), 7th Edition.
2. N. M. Laird, and C. Lange, The Fundamentals of Modern Statistical Genetics, Springer: New York (2011),
1.  M. Nagarajan, Ed. Metagenomics: Perspectives, Methods, and Applications, Elsevier (2017) 1st Edition,
2.  D. P. Snustad, M. J. Simmons, Principles of Genetics, John Wiley and Sons (2011), 6th Edition.
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the organization of a genome and highlight the complexity of the encoded proteome and
2.  Describe methods to access the genome, proteome and metabolome for specific applications
3. Highlight applications of genomics, proteomics and metabolomics in biological research
The students will have the ability to:
1. Sequence and analyse the genome of a simple organism to understand its functioning
2. Appreciate the usage of proteomics approaches to obtain a global picture of cellular activities
3. Understand the metabolic complexity of simple organisms from the perspective of their genome and
Genomics & Transcriptomics [12 Lectures]: Organization of the genome, Genome mapping (2 lectures), Genome
sequencing (3 lectures), Comparing genomes (2 lecture), Functional Genomics (2 lectures), Epigenomics (1
lecture), Genome sequencing projects (1 lectures), Genome databases (1 lectures)
Proteomics [10 Lectures]: Separation of proteins, Analysis of protein expression [3 Lectures], Detection of post-
translational  modifications  [2  Lectures]  ,  Reverse  phase  protein  microarrays  [2  Lectures],  Structural
proteomics, Interactomics [3 Lectures]
Metabolomics  [14  Lectures]: NMR  for  metabolomics  (2  lectures),  Gas  chromatography  (2  lectures),  High-
performance liquid chromatography (2 lectures), Mass spectrometry (5 lectures), Global metabolite profiling
from biological samples (3 lectures)
Applications  of  Omics  [6  Lectures]: Genomics  &  proteomics  in  Medicine,  Biomarkers,  Pharmacogenomics  &
personalized medicine (3 lectures), Plant genomes (1 lecture), Microbial genomes (1 lecture), Proteomics and
metabolomics for biomarker discovery & disease diagnosis (1 lectures)
S. B. Primrose and R. M. Twyman Principles of Gene Manipulation & Genomics, Blackwell Publishing (2006)
1.  A. M. Lesk, Introduction to Genomics, Oxford University Press (2017), 3rd Edition.
2.  R. Twyman, Principles of Proteomics, CRC Press (2013), 2nd Edition.
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an insight on the fundamental concepts of biomaterials engineering.
2.  Give  an  overview  of  techniques  for  characterizations  of  different  types  of  biomaterials  for  various
The students will have the ability to:
1. Analyze the suitability of the material to be used as a biomaterial.
2. Compare the performance of different biomaterials.
2. Design a strategy for modification of biomaterials for a specific application.
Fundamental  of  Biomaterials  [14  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  biomaterials  (2  lectures),  types  of  biomaterials  (1
lectures), processing of biomaterials (4 lectures), surface properties and surface modification of biomaterials
(3 lectures), physicochemical characterization of biomaterials (4 lectures). (offered by MM department)
Biological  properties  of  biomaterials  [14  Lectures]:  Concepts  of  biocompatibility,  immune-compatibility,
hemocompatibility  and  biodegradability  (5  lectures),  Bioconjugations,  Biomineralization  (4  lectures),
Biological characterization of biomaterials (5 lectures) (offered by BSBE)
Applications  of  Biomaterials  [14  Lectures]:  Biomimetic  and  stealth  biomaterials  (3  lectures),  types  and
applications  of  implants  (4  lectures),  biomaterials  for  drug  delivery  systems  (3  lectures),  biomaterials  for
tissue engineering (3 lectures), regulatory affairs (1 lecture) (offered by BSBE)
B. Bikramjit, Biomaterials Science and Tissue Engineering, Cambridge University Press (2017), First edition.
W.  R.  Wagner,  Shelly  E.  Sakiyama-Elbert,  Guigen  Zhang,  Michael  J.  Yaszemski,  Biomaterials  Science:  An
Introduction to Materials in Medicine, Academic Press Inc (2020), 4th edition.
Prof. Bikramjit Basu, IIT Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113/104/113104009/
15. Detailed Course Content of Programme Elective Courses
Title of the course
Microbiomes and Metagenomics
Computational Methods for Multi-omics
Microarray Data Analysis
Microbiomes and Metagenomics
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce microbial communities that are ubiquitous and are functionally adapted to specific
2. Outline methods to understand microbial community structure in a given environment
3. Describe strategies to access the genomic diversity specific to these microbial communities
The students will have the ability to:
1. Unravel microbial communities associated with specific environments using culture-dependent /
2. Access metagenomes associated with unique environments to bioprospect enzymes, metabolites and
Fractal 1. Quantitative ecology of Microbial communities [14 Lectures]: Development of microbial communities (2
lectures), selection and succession, diversity and stability of communities (3 lectures), indices for diversity (2
lectures),  structure  and  function  of  some  natural  microbial  communities  (2  lectures),  accessing  the
microbiome:  from  sample  collection  to  detection  of  microbial  populations,  counting  microbes  (3  lectures),
measuring microbial biomass and metabolism (2 lectures)
Fractal  2.  The  current  standard  in  microbiome  profiling  [14  Lectures]:  Extraction  of  environmental  DNA  (2
lectures),  PCR  considerations  in  microbiome  research  (2  lectures),  multiplexing  samples,  next  generation
sequencing primer (2 lectures), exploiting NGS methods for microbiome profiling (2 lectures), data analyses
(4 lectures), assessment of community diversity (2 lectures)
Fractal 3. Metagenome sequencing [14 Lectures]: Metagenome library construction and sequencing (2 lectures),
metagenome  amplification,  shotgun  metagenome  sequencing  (3  lectures),  single-cell  metagenomics  (2
lectures),  predicting  genes  and  gene  function  from  metagenomes  (2  lectures),  metabolic  reconstruction  of
microbial communities (2 lectures), bioprospecting from metagenomes (3 lectures)
1. R. Atlas, R. Bartha, Microbial Ecology: Fundamentals and Applications, Pearson
(1998), 4th edition.
2. J. Izard, M. Rivera, Eds. Metagenomics for Microbiology, Elsevier (2015), First edition.
1. M. Nagarajan, Ed. Metagenomics: Perspectives, Methods, and Applications, Elsevier (2017), 1st Edition.
2. Research articles, Case reports & Review articles as provided by the Instructor
Computational Methods for Multi-
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce to basic knowledge of computational and statistical methods in omics data analysis
2. Highlight how multi-omics data is to be preprocessed, assessed for integrity, analyzed and interpreted
Programme Elective (PE)
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify key methods for analysis and integration of omics data based on a given dataset
2. Efficiently analyze large scale multi-omics data sets
3. Make biological inference from the analyzed data
Fractal 1: Basics of Multi-omics Analysis (14 lectures)
Genome first and phenome first approaches, biological networks and pathways (4 lectures),  multi-omics
data types and repositories, multi-omics data examples, biological interpretation (4 lectures); homogeneity
and heterogeneity issues, batch effect correction, normalization and transformation (4 lectures); processing
of high-throughput multi-omics data sets (2 lectures)
Fractal 2: Horizontal Multi-omics Integration (14 lectures)
Horizontal  integration  scheme,  single-level  omics  data,  meta-analysis  methods  (4  lectures);  integration
methods  for  multiple  biological  networks,  integration  of  genetically  regulated  gene  expression  data  (4
lectures); correlation motif model, ChIP-X data integration, analysis of allele-specific binding in ChIP-Seq
(3 lectures); illustrative case-studies (3 lectures)
Fractal 3: Vertical Multi-omics Integration (14 lectures)
Vertical  integration  schemes  including  parallel  integration  and  hierarchical  integration  (3  lectures);
clustering  methods,  latent  variable  approach  (4  lectures);  Bayesian  methods,  network-based  methods,
HotNet algorithm (4 lectures); illustrative case-studies (3 lectures)
Laboratory Experiments (14 classes)
perform multi-omics integration for cancer TCGA data sets (4 lectures); analyze the complex structure of
repeated measurements from different biological assays using open access data sets (4 lectures); develop a
meta-analysis approach for integrating data on blood lipid levels (3 lectures); apply visualization approaches
for the multi-omics analyses and biological interpretation (3 lectures)
1. G. Tseng, D. Ghosh, X. J. Zhou, Integrating Omics Data. Cambridge University press (2015), First
1. A. Vlahou, F. Magni, H. Mischak, J. Zoidakis, Integration of Omics Approaches and Systems Biology for
clinical applications. Wiley (2018), First edition.
1.  George  Michailidis,  University  of  Michigan,  Data-driven  Approaches  and  Multi-omics  Integration,
Microarray Data Analysis
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Basic understanding of molecular biology and
Structure (L-T-P-C)  3-0-0 [3]
1.  Training students to analyze microarray technology/RNA sequencing gene expression data.
2.  To be knowledgeable about high dimensional biology data analysis. The course will help to minimize
a major bottleneck in the utilization of these data.
3.  To  familiarize  the  students  with  the  use  of  advanced  tools  and  methodologies  for  analyzing
microarray/RNA seq expression data
4.  Assignments  will  help  them  to  practice  and  learn  about  the  tools  required  in  the  microarray  data
1.  Be able to understand the structure of the data, the statistical procedures used to remove the inherent
noise present in the data (pre-processing of the data)
2.  Be able to decide which data analysis tool to use
3.  Be able to understand new methods to describe observations made on a biological phenomenon and
to make inferences on the biological significance of the results
Fractal  1:  DNA  Microarray:  Gene  expression  biology,  The  technical  foundations,  Why  are  microarray
important?(1 lecture) What is a DNA microarray and RNA seq data?(2 lectures), Types of microarrays-
two-channel  cDNA  arrays,  single-channel  Affymetrix  genechips,  microarray  platforms  (5  lectures),
Designing  a  microarray  experiment-The  basic  steps  (2  lectures);  Microarray  Databases:  NCBI  and
microarray data management,  GEO (Gene  Expression Omnibus), Array Express, The benefits of GEO
and Array Express (4 lectures).
Fractal 2: Microarray Data Normalization : Importance of microarray data pre-processing, Background
correction  (4  lectures),  Data  normalization,  Measuring  dissimilarity  of  expression  pattern  using
dissimilarity  measures  (3  lectures),  Pre-processing  of  RNA  seq  data  (5  lectures),  Visualizing
microarray/RNA seq data using- Principal Component Analysis (2 lectures)
Fractal 3: Microarray Data Analysis: Identification of differentially expressed genes- using statistical and
computational approaches (4 lectures), Classifying samples from two populations (4 lectures), grouping
co-expressed genes (2 lectures). Visualization and Functional Analysis: Bio-molecular  pathways, gene
ontology, enrichment analysis, hypergeometric distribution, calculation of P-Value, hypothesis testing,
multiple hypothesis testing (4 lectures)
R. M. Simon, E. L. Korn, L. M. McShane, M. D. Radmacher, Wright G. W., Zhao Y., "Design and
Analysis of DNA Microarray Investigations", Springer-Verlag New York, 2003, First Edition.
Approach", CRC Press,  USA, 2014, First edition.
Korpelainen E., Tuimala J., Somervuo J., Huss M., Wong G., "RNA-seq Data Analysis: A Practical
1. Knudsen S., “Guide to Analysis of DNA Microarray data”, John Wiley & Sons, USA, 2004, First Edition.
2. Stekel D., “Microarray Bioinformatics”, Cambridge University Press, 2003, First edition.
3.  Draghic  S.,  “Data  Analysis  tools  for  DNA  Microarray”,  Chapman  and  Hall/CRC  Press,  USA  2002,
Microarray based DNA Detection---- http://nptel.ac.in/ courses/104103018/41
Title of the course
Therapeutic Delivery Systems
Principles of Biomechanics
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Biomaterials Engineering (PC)
The Instructor will
1. Provide an insight about cell-material interactions at different length scale essential for the design and
development of wearable devices, implants, therapeutic formulations and engineered organs.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Analyse the nature of cell-material interactions at molecular level.
2. Choose appropriate techniques for analysing cell-material interactions.
3.  Develop  an  appropriate  surface  modification  strategy  for
the  performance  of
Fractal 1. Fundamentals of cell-material interactions [14 Lectures]: Cell-material interactions over a length scale
from  macro  to  nano,  mechanism  of  adhesion  of  cells  (4  lectures),  ECM  and  its  interactions  with  cells  (3
lectures);  Reticuloendothelial  cell  clearance,  interaction  of  immune  cells  with  materials  (4  lectures)),
interaction of microbes with substrate (3 lectures).
Fractal 2. Influence of material properties on cell-material interactions [14 Lectures]: Influence of the surface and
bulk properties of the materials on physiology of anchorage dependent cells (5 lectures), effects of size and
morphology  of  the  materials  on  their  interactions  with  the  cells  (4  lectures),  Important  techniques  for
characterizing cell-material interactions (5 lectures).
Fractal 3. Tuning of cell-material interactions [14 Lectures]: Strategies to tune the cellular function by modifying
material  properties  for  biomedical  applications  (5  lectures),  anchorage  promoting  peptides,  tuning  the
mechanism of biofilm formation (4 lectures), design of stimuli-responsive (optical, electric and magnetic)
surfaces for modulating cell behaviour (5 lectures).
J. Y. Wong, J. D. Bronzino, Biomaterials, CRC Press (2019), first edition.
W. R. Wagner, S. E. Sakiyama-Elbert, G. Zhang, M. J. Yaszemski, Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to
Materials in Medicine, Academic Press Inc (2020), 4th edition.
MIT  Open  Courseware,  Prof.  Ioannis  Yannas  and  Prof.  Myron  Spector,  Course  number:  20.441J/
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Biomaterials Engineering (PC)
Cell-Material Interactions (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  an  understanding  of  the  process  of  repair  and  regeneration  in  various  tissues  and  the  role  of
different factors therein.
2. Fundamental concepts and technical aspects of tissue engineering.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design a tissue-engineered product for a specific application.
2. Analyze and compare the performance of different tissue-engineered products.
Fractal  1.  Fundamental  concepts  of  tissue  engineering  [14  Lectures]:  Fundamentals  of  tissue  repair  and
regeneration; manipulation of repair and regeneration (4 lectures); introduction to basic principles of tissue
engineering (5 lectures); components of an engineered tissue: role of biomaterials, growth factors, bioactive
molecules and cells (5 lectures).
Fractal 2. Fabrication and characterization of solid support systems [14 Lectures]:  Fabrication techniques of films
and  hydrogels  (4  lectures);  fabrication  of  scaffolds  (5  lectures);  Physico-chemical  characterizations  of
different solid support systems (5 lectures).
Fractal 3. Development of engineered tissue in vitro [14 Lectures]: Animal cell culture (2D and 3D) (5 lectures);
strategies  for  the  development  of  cell-seeded  tissue  engineering  construct  (5  lectures);  implantation  and
integration of tissue-engineered products (3 lectures); Ethical and regulatory issues in tissue engineering (1
B. Palsson, S. Bhatia, Tissue Engineering, Pearson Prentice Hall (2016), First edition.
J.  P.  Fisher,  G.  Antonios,  G.  Mikos,  J.  D.  Bronzino,  D.  R.  Peterson,  Tissue  Engineering:  Principles  and
Practices, CRC Press (2017), First edition.
1.  Introduction  to  Tissue  Engineering,  Prof.  S.  Swaminathan,  Centre  for  Nanotechnology  &  Advanced
Biomaterials, SASTRA University. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/106/102106036/;
2.  Tissue  Engineering,  Prof.  Vignesh  Muthuvijayan,  Department  of  Biotechnology,  IIT  Kanpur.
Therapeutic Delivery Systems
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Biomaterials Engineering (PC)
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  deep  insight  on  the  fundamental  concepts  and  advances  on  various  types  of  therapeutic
2. An understanding principles/rationales of therapeutic delivery systems.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design a therapeutic delivery system for a specific application.
2. Decipher and modulate the mechanism of therapeutic drug loading and release.
3. Formulate novel strategies for personalized drug delivery.
Fractal 1. Introduction to therapeutic delivery systems [14 Lectures]: Overview of therapeutic delivery systems
(3 lectures); rationales of designing therapeutic delivery systems (3 lectures), classification of therapeutic
delivery systems (3 lectures); characterization of therapeutic delivery systems (5 lectures).
Fractal  2.  Essential  concepts  of  therapeutic  delivery  systems  [14  Lectures]:  Strategies  of  drug  loading,
mechanism  of  drug  release,  kinetics  of  drug  release  (3  lectures),  essentials  of  pharmaco-kinetics  and
pharmacodynamics  (3  lectures),  principles  of  sustained,  targeted  and  on-demand  delivery  (5  lectures),
case studies on therapeutic delivery systems (3 lectures).
Y. Chien, Novel Drug Delivery Systems (Drugs and the Pharmaceutical Sciences) CRC Press, 2nd edition
P.  Stroeve,  Morteza  Mahmoudi  Drug  Delivery  Systems:  1  (World  Scientific  Series:  From  Biomaterials
Towards Medical Devices), (2018) First edition.
Drug delivery: Principles and Engineering, Prof. Rachit Agarwal, Department of BioSystems Science and
Engineering, IISc Bangalore. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/108/102108077/
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  knowledge  about  momentum,  heat  and  mass  transfer  in  bio-systems  and  their  analogous
2.  Train the student to create bio-engineering knowledge using the transport phenomena approach with
special focus on combined transport problems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify and analyze the properties and mechanisms of momentum, energy and mass transport.
2. Analyze, design and solve problems combining these transport phenomena in bio-engineering.
Basics of Transport phenomena and Momentum Transport (14 Lectures): Introduction, Formulation of transport
problems from nature, conservation principle, Basic concepts of Vector and Tensor Analysis. (6 Lectures)
Basic concepts, laminar and turbulent flows, boundary layers, equations of change, dimensional analysis,
applications to Newtonian & Non-Newtonian fluids. (8 lectures)
Fundamentals  of  biological  transport  processes  (14  Lectures):  Driving  forces  for  fluid  transport  in  biological
systems, biological transport process on different length scale , Bio-rheology of  blood and other body fluids
(  5  lecture),  Transport  across  cell  membrane;  diffusion,  filtration  and  osmosis  (3  lecture),  facilitated  and
active transport processes (3 lecture), interstitial fluid transport, fluid flow in bone canaliculi and streaming
potential ( 3 lecture),
Circulatory and respiratory transport processes (14 Lectures): Models for blood flow; steady flow in tubes, pulsatile
flow in a rigid tube, pulsatile flow in an elastic tube (3 lecture), blood flow in capillaries and bolus flow,
blood flow dynamics in arteries and veins (3 lecture), heart-valve hemodynamics (3 lecture), air flow in the
lungs:  Mechanics  of  breathing,  gas  exchange  and  transport  (4  lecture),  Application  of  the  principle  of  bio-
transport phenomenon in medical device development(1 lecture).
1.  G.  A.  Truskey,  F.  Yuan,  D.  F.  Katz,  Transport  Phenomena  in  Biological  Systems,  Prentice  Hall,  New
Jersey (2009), 2nd edition.
2. R. B. Bird, W. E. Stewart, E. N. Lightfoot, Transport Phenomena, Wiley India (2006), 2nd edition.
1.  C. E.  Welty,  R. E.  Wicks,  G. L.  Wilson,  G. L.  Rorrer,(2007),  Fundamentals of Momentum, Heat, and  Mass
Transfer. Wiley India Pvt. Ltd (2007), 5th edition.
2.  C.  J.  Geankoplis  Transport  Processes  and  Separation  Process  Principles,  Prentice-Hall  of  India  (2004),  4th
3.  R.  S.  Brodkey,  H.  C.  Hershey,  Basic  concepts  in  transport  phenomena,  a  unified  approach.  Vol  1,  Brodkey
Publishing (2003), 1st edition.
4. W. J. Thompson, (2000) Introduction to Transport Phenomena, Prentice Hall (2000), First edition.
Online Course Material
Transport Phenomena’ by Prof. S.K. Gupta, NPTEL: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/102/103102024/
Computational and Systems Biology
Title of the course
Algorithms in Biology
Modelling Biological Systems
Design of experiments
Algorithms in Biology
Bioscience & Bioengineering
To  develop  an    understanding  of  the    main    algorithmic  approaches    used    in    solving  computational
problems that arise in the analysis of biomolecular data (such as DNA/RNA/amino acid sequences, mass
spectra of proteins, whole genomes, or gene expression levels).
The students are expected to:
1. Understand various algorithms related to biological data analysis.
2. Develop new efficient algorithm to solve biological data.
[Fractal 1] Greedy Algorithms: Genome Rearrangements (7 lectures), A greedy approach to motif finding (7
[Fractal  2]  Dynamic programming  algorithms:  The  power  of  DNA  sequence  comparison  (2  lectures),  global
sequence alignment, local sequence alignment (4 lectures), alignment and gap penalties (2 lectures), multiple
alignment (2 lectures), Gene Prediction, Similarity-Based Approaches to Gene Prediction (4 lectures)
[Fractal 3] Clustering algorithms: identification of co-expressed groups of genes (2 lectures), construction of
phylogenetic trees (3 lectures), detection of communities in a biological network (3 lectures)
Gene selection algorithms: types of gene selection algorithms, SAM, Limma, CFS, mRMR, MRMS (4 lectures),
ensemble gene selection algorithm (2 lecture)
1. N. C. Jones, P. A. Pevzner An Introduction to Bioinformatics Algorithms, MIT Press (2014), First edition.
2. G.  Benson,  R.  Page  (Eds.)  Algorithms  in  Bioinformatics”,  Springer  International  Edition  (2004)  First
3. D. Gusfields, Algorithms on strings, trees and sequences: Computer Science and Computational Biology,
Cambridge University Press (1997), First edition.
1. S.  S.  Kremer,  Molecular  Bioinformatics:  Algorithms  and  Applications,  Walter  de  Gruyter  (1996)  First
2. R.  Durbin,  S.  R.  Eddy,  A.  Krogh,  G.  Mitchison.  Biological  Sequence  Analysis:  Probabilistic  Models  of
Proteins and Nucleic Acid, Cambridge University Press, (1999), First edition.
3. S. Mitra, S. Datta, T. Perkins, G. Michailidis Introduction to Machine Learning and Bioinformatics, New
York: Chapman & Hall/CRC Press (2008), First edition.
Online Course Material
2. MIT  Open  Courseware:  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-
Modelling Biological Systems
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The main objective of the course is to introduce students to various aspects of mathematical modelling in
the particular context of biological systems.
Program Elective (PE)
Students will have a knowledge of important concepts related to the mathematical modelling of complex
systems, especially metabolic networks, protein interaction  networks and gene  regulatory  networks, and
will be able to apply them to model the behaviour of biological systems as well as develop strategies for
Kinetic/Dynamic Modelling of Biological Systems [14 lectures]: Introduction to Dynamic Modelling (2 lectures),
Computer Simulation (3 lectures), Parameter Estimation (3 lectures), Sensitivity Analysis (2 lectures), case
study (3 lectures)
Modelling metabolic networks/Constraint-based analyses [7 lectures]: Introduction to Constraint-based Analyses
of Metabolic Networks (2 lectures), Constraint-based Analyses of Metabolic Networks: FBA and MoMA (5
lectures); Current/Advanced Topics in Systems Biology [7 lectures]: Robustness in Biological Systems (4 lectures),
Robustness and Evolvability in Biological Systems (3 lectures)
Lab: [10-12 Sessions]
Introduction to MATLAB, Solving ODEs/Parameter Estimation with MATLAB, Parameter Estimation with
MATLAB,  Simulation  with  CellDesigner  (TCA  cycle),  Constraint-based  Analyses  of  Metabolic  Networks
(FBA and MoMA)
Voit E, A First Course in Systems Biology. Garland Science (2012), First edition.
1. E. Klipp, Systems biology: a textbook. Wiley-VCH (2009), First edition.
2. MEJ Newman, Networks: an introduction. Oxford Univ. Press (2011), First edition.
NPTEL Lectures: Computational Systems Biology, Karthik Raman, IIT Madras
Title of the course
Electron microscopy for Biology
Digital Image processing
Special topics in Biomedical Imaging
Title of the course
Whole cell based biosensors
Microsystems fabrication technology
Special topics in biosensors
Whole Cell based Biosensors
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Pre / Co-requisite
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce the basic regulatory mechanisms of gene expression in prokaryotes
2. Outline how these gene expression circuits can be rewired to make effective biosensors
3. Briefly expand into synthetic biology approaches to construct whole-cell biosensors
The students will have the ability to:
1. Choose the right regulatory circuits for design of effective biosensors
2. Genetically engineer living prokaryotic systems for sensing
Genetic  circuitry  [20  Lectures]:  Transcriptional  and  post-transcriptional  regulation  of  gene  expression  in
bacteria (4 lectures), two-component systems (3 lecture), reporter genes and their usage (2 lectures), choice
of  host  strain,  free  living  biosensors  (2  lectures),  immobilized  biosensors,  immobilization  strategies  (2
lectures),  DNA  manipulation  for  construction  of  reporter  fusions  (1  lecture),  RNA-based  sensing  (4
lectures), specificity, sensitivity, cross-reactivity (2 lecture).
Case  studies  [14  Lectures]:  Whole  cell  biosensors  for  sensing:  antimicrobials  (1  lecture),  organics,  plant
nutrients  (3  lectures),  microbial  metabolites  (2  lectures),  heavy  metals,  xenobiotics  (3  lectures),  pH,
temperature (2 lectures), synthetic biology for whole cell biosensor development (3 lectures).
Seminars on current topics in whole cell biosensors [8 Lectures]: Student-led seminars on current topics in whole
cell  biosensors.  Students  will  present  and  discuss  instructor-approved  research  articles  describing
development of biosensors using living cells.
Research articles & Review articles as provided by the Instructor
T. Gerald, Ed. Handbook of cell biosensors, Springer (2020), 1st Edition.
Microbial Systems for Sustainable Development
Title of the course
Microbial remediation and environmental biotechnology
Microbes in food and sustainable agriculture
Microbial remediation and Environmental
Bioscience and Bioengineering
1.  To acquaint students with the way wastes/wastewaters as well as toxic wastes are treated
2.  The instructor will teach methods pertaining to sustainable wastewater recycling
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Address the increasing water, soil or air pollution problems arising due to industrialization and how
biotechnology can circumvent these problems
2.  Students will be able to design a treatment process based on the characteristics of the wastewater to be
Fractal  1:  Introduction,  Stoichiometry  and  bacterial  energetics  (5  lectures),  reactors  for  wastewater
treatment,  Carbon  removal,  Nitrification  and  denitrification,  phosphorus  remova  (6  lectures)l,
Detoxification of hazardous chemicals (3 lectures).
Fractal  2:  Bioremediation,  Type  of  bioremediation  (4  lectures),  Engineering  strategies  for
bioremediation (5 lectures), case studies on bioremediation (5 lectures)
Fractal 3: Strategies in solid waste management, landfill & associated hazards (4 lectures) , chemistry
of  biodegradable  wastes,  composting,  solid  state  fermentation  (5  lectures),  solid  waste  to  biofuel,
chemistry of non-biodegradable wastes, the case studies  (5 lectures)
B.E.  Rittmann,  P.  L.  McCarty,  Environmental  Biotechnology:  Principles  and  Applications,  Tata
McGraw Hill (2001), 2nd edition.
1. M. Shuler, F. Kargi, Bioprocess Engineering: Basic Concepts, Prentice Hall (2002), 2nd  edition.
2. R. Y. Stanier, General Microbiology, Macmillan (1999), 5th edition.
Gargi  Singh,  Applied  Environmental  Microbiology,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Civil
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/105107173/
Microbes in food and sustainable agriculture
Biosciences & Bioengineering
This  course  will  emphasize  on  the  role  of  microbes  in  food,  additives  and  sustainable  agriculture  and  its
practical applications in the field.
The students will have the ability to:
Be able to utilize the potential of microbes in creating a sustainable food and agriculture alternatives.
Plant-microbe interactions [14 Lectures]:
Plant community ecology and soil symbiont interactions, soil resources, local niche in shaping community
[5 Lectures], Microbial interactions, role of root exudates in microbial community growth, types of microbial
community    [5  Lectures],  Factors  affecting  plant-microbiome  interactions  (environmental  and  genetic)  [4
Microbes for better food and health [14 Lectures]:
Prebiotics, probiotics and synbiotics, microbes as nutritional supplement [5 Lectures],  microbial preparation
of dairy products, microbial production of antibiotics [5 Lectures], Fermented beverages and health benefits,
quality control [4 Lectures]
Microbes for sustainable agriculture [14 Lectures]:
Microbes as symbiotic microbes, nitrogen fixers and phosphate solubilizer [5 Lectures], Microbial herbicides
and  pesticides,  microbes  for  nutrient  recycling  [5  Lectures],  Phytohormone  production  and  genetically
modified food [4 Lectures]
R. Chandra, R. C. Sobti. Microbes for Sustainable Development and Bioremediation. CRC Press (2020), First
S. Tulasi, J. B. Naraian, A. Prakash, Microbes in food and sustainable agriculture. Springer (2012),  First
1. Microbiology. Gurvinder Kaur Saini. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/103/102103015/)
2. Applied environmental microbiology. Gargi Singh. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105/107/105107173/
Bioscience and Bioengineering
BBL4XX0 (Level 4)
To acquaint students with the principles and applications of bio-energy harnessing systems ranging from
conventional processes to the latest developments in the area
The students will have the ability to:
1. Use biomass as sustainable fuel
2.  Utilize the knowledge of bioenergy systems while integrating bioenergy with other renewable energy
Fractal  1.  Thermochemical  biomass  conversion:  Chemical  composition,  biomass  types  and  characteristics  (4
lectures),  biomass  pre-treatment  and  processing,  biomass  gasification  technology  (5  lectures),  biomass
boilers, catalytic conversion of biomass to liquid biofuels, life cycle analysis (5 lectures) (offered by CY).
Fractal  2.  Biochemical  biomass  conversion:  Anaerobic  fermentation  technology,  biogas  production,  process,
microbiology (4 lectures), different types of bioreactors, basic process kinetics, various types of biofuels,1st
and  2nd  generation  biofuels,  algal  biofuels  (5  lectures),  ASTM  standards  for  biofuels,  basic  biochemical
processes, genetic engineering (5 lectures).
Fractal  3.  Bioelectrochemical  systems:  Introduction  to  microbial  fuel  cells  (MFCs),  the  Nernst  equation  and
electrochemical  potential  difference,  the  biochemical  redox  reactions,  (5  lectures),  the  exoelectrogenic
microbes,  MFC  components,  applications  of  MFC  (5  lectures),  bio  electrochemical  system  for  hydrogen
production, artificial photosynthesis (4 lectures).
German Solar Energy Society, Ecofys, (2006) Planning and installing bioenergy systems: A guide for installers,
architects and engineers, Earthscan, 2.  Vertes, A. A., Qureshi, A., Yukawa, H.,  Blaschek, H.P.,(2010) Biomass
to Biofuels, Wiley.
1.  R. Y. Stanier, General Microbiology, Macmillan (1999), 5th edition.
2.  M. Pelczar, A. C. Krieg, Microbiology, Tata McGraw Hill Education (2001), 5th edition.
Michelle O'Malley, Fueling Sustainability: Engineering Microbial Systems for Biofuel Production, Spring 2011,
MIT OpenCourseWare Massachusetts Institute of Technology, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative
Drug Design and Development
Title of the course
Principles of drug discovery
Viral infection and antiviral drug development
Principles of drug discovery
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Pre/Co-requisite  Biophysics and Structural Biology (PC)
The instructor will:
Focus on route of drug design and discovery
BBL4XX0 (Level 400)
The students will have the ability to:
Appreciate the underlying principles of drug design and development
Fractal 1. Target Identification and Validation: Drug targets, computer aided drug design, principles of QSAR
(4 Lectures); pharmacokinetics, administration and dosing (2 Lectures); drug testing: in vivo and in vitro
(2  Lectures);  drug  discovery:  natural  lead,  synthetic  lead,  combinatorial  synthesis  (3  Lectures);
pharmacokinetics based drug design (3 Lectures). [14 Lectures]
Fractal 2. Artificial Intelligence Applications in Drug Discovery: drug target identification, drug databases,
virtual screening (4 lectures); classifying new drugs, predicting drug responses, applications in clinical
trials (4 lectures); deep learning based survival prediction, disease prognosis prediction (3 lectures); data
driven medicine, drug-target interaction prediction (3 lectures). [14 Lectures]
Fractal  3.  Bench-to-Bed  side:  Chemical  development  (2  Lectures),  patenting  (2  Lectures),  process
development  (2  Lectures);  toxicology  (1  Lectures),  pharmacology  (2  Lectures),  drug  metabolism  (1
Lectures);  clinical  trials  (2  Lectures);  commercialization:  regulatory  affairs,  pipeline  development,
pharmaceutical market places, business opportunities (2 Lectures). [14 Lectures]
K. Stromgaard, P. K. Larsen, U. Madsen, Drug Design and Discovery, CRC Press (2016), 5th Edition.
E. Stevens, Medicinal Chemistry: The Modern Drug Discovery Process, Pearson Publisher
(2013), 1st Edition.
The Instructor will:
1. Provide understanding of representing stereochemical structures of drug molecules and their important
2.  Provide  knowledge  of  disconnection  of  drug  molecules  followed  by  targeting  them  synthetically  by
designing synthetic routes and methods development to achieve them in concise and atom economical
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Design and develop a method for targeted biologically active natural products or drug molecule from the
knowledge of the retrosynthesis and synthetic organic chemistry.
2. Appreciate and understand the importance of stereochemistry avail in drug molecules.
Fractal 1. Pharmacophore [14 lectures]:  Stereochemical feature of pharmacophore (2 Lectures), Natural and
synthetic pharmacophores (2 Lectures), introduction and importance of natural product chemistry in drug
development (2 Lectures), analogue-based lead designing (2 Lecture), Examples of Synthetic  and natural
Product-based  landmark  drugs  (1  Lecture),  Drug  metabolism:  Concept  of  prodrugs  (1  Lecture),  adverse
drug reaction (2 Lectures), biotransformation (2 Lectures).
Fractal 2. Basic Concept of Organic Synthesis [14 lectures]: functional group interconversions, (4 Lectures) donor
and  acceptor,  (1  Lecture)  chemo-,  regio-and  stereo-selectivities,  (3  Lectures)  natural  and  umpolung
reactivities, (2 Lectures)  1,3 and 1,5-difunctional compounds, (2 Lectures) importance and role of chiral drug
molecules  and selective synthesis of chiral drug molecule. (2 Lectures).
Fractal 3. Synthetic procedure of biologically active molecules [14 lectures]:  Few applications of retrosynthetic
strategies in the total synthesis of selected organic molecules such as: Drugs acting on Central Nervous
System  (2  Lectures),  Anti-inflammatory  agents  (such  as  paracetamol,  naproxine,  ibuprofen,  aspirin,
diclofenac)(4  Lectures),  Antibiotics  and  Antifungal  agents  (2  Lectures),  Antiviral  agents  (1  Lecture),
Medicinal  Plant  products  [tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC)]  (2  Lectures),  Importance  of  peptides  in  drug
discovery  (tubulysin,  dolastatin,  milnamide)   general  aspects  of  Peptides  and  Peptidomimetics  in
designing therapeutic molecule (3 Lectures).
1. S. Warren, Organic Synthesis, The Disconnection Approach Wiley (2014), Third edition.
2. E. M. Carriera, L. Kvaerno Classics in Stereoselective synthesis, Wiley (2009), First edition.
3. L. Kurti, B. Czako, Strategic Applications of Named Reactions in Organic Synthesis, Elsevier (2005), First
4. D. S.  Johnson, J. J. Li, The Art of Drug Synthesis. Wiley (2007), First edition.
1. K. C. Nicolaou, S. A. Snyder, Classics in Total Synthesis-II: Further Targets, Strategies, Methods, Wiley
(2003), First edition.
2. R. K. Bansal, Heterocyclic Chemistry, New Age International Private Limited (2017), 5th edition.
1. NPTEL Lectures: Organic synthesis - https://nptel.ac.in/courses/104105087/
2. NPTEL Lectures: Medicinal Chemistry- https://nptel.ac.in/courses/104106106/
Viral infection and antiviral drug development  Number
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide the fundamental knowledge of Viral pathogenesis and Host cell responses
2. Provide the detailed knowledge of antiviral drug targets, mechanism of existing antiviral drugs and future
antiviral therapeutics and drug designing endeavours.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Understand the molecular mechanism of viral pathogenesis and host antiviral immune responses.
2.   Understand the mode of action of common antiviral therapeutics and the fundamentals of antiviral drug
Basic concept of Virus and Viral pathogenesis:(14 lectures) Virus a unique infectious agent, Classification of virus
(5  Lectures);  Example  of  pathogenic  virus  and  their  life  cycles  (Host  specificity,  attachment,  replication,
proliferation, maturation, release and cross species infectivity) (5 Lectures); Virus induced cell transformation
Viral  infection  versus  host  defense  mechanisms:  (10  lectures)  Host  immune  responses  against  viral  infection
(4  +  4  Lectures)
Immunopathological effects of viral infections (2 Lectures)
Antiviral therapies: (18 lectures) Identification and validation of antiviral drug targets (4 Lectures), Strategies
to develop antiviral drugs (small molecule and peptide based) (4 Lectures) Therapeutic antibodies as antiviral
drugs, AON and RNAi based antiviral therapies, Immunization (active and passive) as antiviral therapy (5
Lectures); Mode of action of common antiviral drugs (5 Lectures).
and  cell  mediated
1. E. Lycke and E. Norrby, Text Book of Medical Virology, Elsevier (1983), First edition.
2. T. J. Kindt, B. A. Osborne, R. A. Goldsby, J. Kuby, Immunology, New York Publisher (2007), 6 th Edition.
3. E. D. Clercq, Advances in Antiviral Drug design, Volume 5, Elsevier (2007), First edition.
Chorghade, M. S., Drug Discovery and Development, Volume 1, Wiley (2006), First edition.
Online Course Material
1.  Dr. Jun Wang, from The University of Arizona, USA Lecture on Influenza Drug Development
2.  Dr. Vincent  Racaniello, from Columbia University, USA Lecture on antiviral drugs
16. Detailed Course Content of Departmental Specializations
Microbial Systems Engineering
Specialization Core (8 credits)
Specialization Elective (12 Credits)
- Engineering Microbes (3-0-0)
- Bioprocess Engineering and
- Mathematical modelling of microbes (1-
-  Microbial Nanotechnology (3-0-0)
-  Metabolic Engineering for biofuels (2-0-0)
-  Microbial remediation and environmental
-  Microbes in food and sustainable agriculture
-  Bioenergy (3-0-0)
-  Soil Microbiome & Microbial Technology (2-
-  Biofilms: Bacterial communities (3-0-0)
-  Gut microbiomes in health and diseases (3-0-
-  Downstream processing (3-0-0)
Industry collaborated project
4 credit (0-0-6) x 1
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Genetics & Gene Manipulation (PC)
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce advanced methods for genetic engineering microbes
2. Discuss case studies outlining the application of introduced methods to develop engineered microbes for
applications in various domains
The students will have the ability to:
1. Select the appropriate method for genetic engineering of microbes
2. Develop solutions for their chosen domain of research using genetically engineered microbes or
Genetic manipulation of microbes [16 Lectures]: Strain development for specific applications (2 lectures), basic
metabolic  engineering  (3  lectures),  microbial  community  engineering  (2  lectures),  construction  of  reporter
strains  and  biosensors  (4  lectures),  applications  of  genetically  engineered  microbes  in  healthcare,  food
production, energy production and environmental remediation (5 lectures).
Gene & genome engineering [16 Lectures]: Introduction to CRISPR-Cas biology (3 lectures), engineering CRISPR-
cas systems (5 lectures), applications of CRISPR-Cas in microbial system engineering (4 lectures), introduction
to microbial genomes, minimal genome concept (2 lectures), synthetic genomes (2 lectures).
Advanced Genetic engineering research prospects in industry [10 Lectures]: Medicines and genetic   engineering;
insulin (3 lectures), albumin and human growth hormones production (2 lectures); generation of monoclonal
antibodies and vaccines (2 lectures); gene coding for a useful protein and cloning concepts (3 lectures).
1.   S. B. Primrose,  and R. M. Twyman,  Principles of Gene Manipulation & Genomics, Blackwell
Publishing (2006), 7th edition.
2.   Reviews & Research articles provided by the Instructor
Reviews & Research articles provided by the Instructor
Bioprocess Engineering & Fermentation
Bioscience and Bioengineering
1. Introducing the students to principles and applications of industrial biotechnology.
2. Enable students to use their knowledge of microbiology and biochemistry for bioprocess design.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Understanding enzymatic and microbial process kinetics
2. Ability to identify and understand the key principles and limitations underlying bioprocess design
Basics of Biochemical Engineering: Basics of reactions and thermodynamics (5 lectures); Isolation, screening and
maintenance of industrially important microbes; strain improvement (3 lectures)
Stoichiometry, bacterial energetics and Microbial growth kinetics: substrate partitioning and cellular yield, energy
reactions, overall reactions for biological growth (5 lectures), Microbial growth, Basic rate expressions, mass
balances, Nutrient and electron acceptors (3 lectures).
Bioreactors: Introduction to bioreactors (2 lectures), Batch and Fed-batch bioreactors, Continuous bioreactors,
plug flow reactors (5 lectures) and control of bioprocess parameters (2 lectures).
Fermentation  economics:    Various  types  of  dimensionless  analysis  in  mass  transfer;  heat  transfer  and
momentum transfer (5 lectures); Importance of dimensionless number in designing the bioreactors, and scale
up (3 lectures)
Industrial  Processes  and  Process  economics:  Process  technology  for  the  production  of  primary  metabolites  (4
lectures), Discussion on the national and international scenario of the products (2 lectures).
Applications of biotechnology in production of biological: Microbial production of useful metabolites (3 lectures)
1. M. Shuler, F. Kargi, Bioprocess Engineering: Basic Concepts, Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliff (2002), 2nd
2. P. F. Stanbury, A. Whitaker, Principles of Fermentation Technology.  Oxford: Pergamon (1997), third
3. P. Doran, Bioprocess engineering principles, Academic Press (1995), 1st edition.
1.  R. G. Harrison, P.  Todd, S. R. Rudge, D. P. Petrides, Bioseparations  Science and Engineering. Oxford
University Press (2015) 2nd Edition.
2.  C. Ratledge, B. Kristiansen, Basic Biotechnology, Cambridge University Press (2001),  2nd edition.
3.  W. Crueger and A. Cruger, Biotechnology: A text book of Industrial Microbiology, Panima publishing
Corporation, Delhi (2004), 2nd edition.
Kristala Jones Prather. 10.442 Biochemical Engineering. Spring 2005. Massachusetts Institute of Technology:
MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
Mathematical  modelling  of
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The main objective of the course is to introduce students to various aspects of mathematical modelling in the
particular context of microbial systems.
Students will have a knowledge of important concepts related to the mathematical modelling of microbial
systems,  and  will  be  able  to  apply  them  to  model  the  behaviour  of  biological  systems  as  well  as  develop
strategies for manipulating them.
Introduction,  Growth  of  microbial  populations,  Volume  and  macromolecular  content  of  cells  (4  lectures),
Biochemical  reactions  underlying  microbial  growth  (2  lectures),  Growth  in  a  changing  environment,
Connecting  metabolism  and  growth:  flux  balance  analysis  (4  lectures),  Connecting  gene  expression,
metabolism and growth: coarse-grained whole-cell models (4 lectures)
Modelling microbial growth, Simulation with CellDesigner, Flux balance analysis
E. Voit, A First Course in Systems Biology. Garland Science (2012), First edition.
1. E. Klipp, Systems biology : a textbook. Wiley (2009), First edition.
2. MEJ Newman, Networks : an introduction. Oxford Univ. Press (2011), First edition.
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide deep insight on fundamental concepts and advances in microbial nanotechnology.
2. Provide overview on the mechanistic understanding on how nanomaterials interact with microbes.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design a greener and eco-friendly synthetic strategy to prepare nanomaterials in bulk scale.
2. Compare their intrinsic antimicrobial activities of different nanomaterials.
3. Design a nanomaterial with a specific size and shape for a particular application.
Fractal 1. Microbial Synthesis of Nanoparticles [14 Lectures]: Biosynthesis of plasmonic nanoparticles by microbes
and their mechanism (5 lectures), biosynthesis of magnetic nanoparticles by microbes and their mechanism
(5 lectures), physico-chemical characterization of nanomaterials (4 lectures).
Fractal  2.  Interactions  of  Microbes  with  Nanomaterials  [14  Lectures]:  Nanomaterial–microbe  cross-talk:
physicochemical  principles  and  biological  consequences  (5
nanotechnology (4 lectures), and antimicrobial properties of nanomaterials (5 lectures).
lectures),  role  of  bacteriophages
Fractal  3.  Microbial  Nanovesicles  and  Viral  Nanoparticles  [14  Lectures]:  Magnetosomes  (3  lectures),  bacterial
membrane  vesicles(3  lectures),  applications  in  vaccines  and  immunotherapeutics  (2  lectures),  Engineered
nanoparticles from viruses (3 lectures), case studies on applications of viral nanoparticles in biomedicine (3
1. R. Prasad, B. Siddhardha, M. Dyavaiah, Nanostructures for Antimicrobial and Antibiofilm Applications
(Nanotechnology in the Life Sciences), Springer (2020), First edition.
2. N. Cioffi, M. Rai, Nano-Antimicrobials: Progress and Prospects, Springer (2012), First edition.
1. R. Prasad, Microbial Nanobionics: Volume 1, State-of-the-Art (Nanotechnology in the Life Sciences) (2019),
Springer, ISBN-10: 3030163822.
2. R. Prasad, Microbial Nanobionics: Volume 2, Basic Research and Applications (Nanotechnology in the Life
Sciences) (2019), Springer, ISBN-10: 3030165337.
Biofilms: Bacterial communities  Course No.
Biosciences & Bioengineering
1.  Introduce students to the concept of social living and community formation in bacteria.
2.  To enable students understand role of biofilms in healthcare and environment.
Students will be able to appreciate the importance of biofilm formation with respect to their beneficial
and detrimental roles.
Biofilm formation [14 Lectures]:
Introduction and significance [5 Lectures]: Composition of biofilm matrix, Structure and function of matrix, Factors
contributing to biofilm formation (intrinsic and extrinsic)
Biofilm life cycle [5 Lectures]: Stages of Biofilm Development, Physiology of biofilms, Viability, metabolism, social
Biofilm evolution [4 Lectures]: Population distribution with the matrix (active and persister cells), multispecies
biofilm, Evolutionary significance of biofilms
Occurrence and Relevance of Biofilms [14 Lectures] :
Environmental  Biofilms  [5  Lectures]:  types  of  biofilms,  bacterial  species  contribution,  multi-species  biofilm,
biofouling, corrosion, plant root nodule interactions, sulfur cycle.
Clinical  Biofilms  [5  Lectures]:  opportunistic  infections,  hospital  acquired  infections,  antibiotic  resistance,  gene
transfer through biofilm community.
Methods  to  study  biofilms  [4  Lectures]:  microscopy  (confocal),  staining  (congo  red  and  crystal  voilet),
quantification of biofilm biomass
Biofilms in engineering systems [14 Lectures]:
Biofilms  in  treatment  of  waste  water  treatment,  biofiltration,  bioremediation,  decomposition  [5 Lectures],
Implications  food  and  agriculture  industry,  as  metabolizers  [4  Lectures],  generation  of  electric  signals,
biocatalysis, microbial fuel cells [5 Lectures]
1. L. F. Melo, T. R. Bott, M. Fletcher and B. Capdeville. Biofilm-Science and Technology. Springer (1992), First
2. M. Ghannoum, G. A. Toole, Microbial Biofilms. ASM Press (2013), First edition
Metabolic Engineering for biofuels
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The instructor will Introduce basic concepts in metabolic engineering and explores modern approaches in
metabolic and strain engineering.
The students will have an ability to:
1.  understand microbial metabolism and describe the major metabolic pathways
2.  Use stoichiometric models to assess metabolic pathways and adopt appropriate genetic engineering
3. Apply genome-scale models to depict metabolic designs that improve flux towards biofuel production.
Introduction  to  metabolic  engineering:  Microbial  physiology  and  metabolism,  Enzyme  &  growth  Kinetics  (5
Modelling and Flux balance analysis: Modelling kinetics, methods to measure fluxes, metabolic flux analysis,
flux balance analysis (5 lectures)
Synthetic Biology for biofuels: Reading writing DNA, Assembling and sequencing DNA (5 lectures)
Design: Design Transcription, translation, post translation and design pathways  (5 lectures)
Genome engineering for biofuels: Genome engineering tools  (4 lectures)
Case studies on biofuel production optimization (4 lectures)
G. N. Stephanopoulos, A. A.  Aristidou, J. Nielsen, Metabolic engineering: Principles and methodologies. 1st
ed. San Diego: Academic Press (1998), 1st edition.
1. C. S. Smolke, Metabolic pathway engineering handbook: Fundamentals. New York: CRC Press. (2010) 1st
2. C. S. Smolke, Metabolic pathway engineering handbook: Tools and applications. 1st ed. New York: CRC
Press (2010). 1st edition.
Soil Microbiome & Microbial Technology   Number
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The instructor will Introduce soil microbiology and soil microbiome in connection with agricultural
productivity and crop nutrient content.
The students will have an ability to:
1.  depict the desirable soil microbiome
2.  Understand pant microbe interaction and its effect on crop productivity and it nutrient content.
3. Engineer microbes for enhancing crop productivity.
Introduction:  Microbiomes  of  soil,  plant  and  animal  the  good  and  the  bad  soil  microbiome,  Analytical
approaches for microbiome research (5 lectures)
Soil Microbiome and plant growth connection: Microbiome of soil, factors that shape the host microbiome    (5
Ecological  connection:  Microbial  symbiosis  and  host  nutrition,  the  microbiome  and  host  behaviour,  host
microbiomes and disease (6 lectures)
Adapting to environmental change: The changes in microbiomes, impact assessment (4 lectures)
Engineering  soil  microbiomes:  Microbial  technologies  and  altering  soil  microbiomes  for  improved  crop
productivity and nutrient production by plants  (5 lectures)
Synthesis and future directions: Future approach to agricultural sustainability, case studies (4 lectures
R. Antwis,  X. Harrison, M. Cox, M. (Eds.). (2020). Microbiomes of Soils, Plants and Animals: An Integrated
Approach (Ecological Reviews). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781108654418
D. R. Montogomery, A. Bikle, The Hidden Half of Nature: The Microbial Roots of Life and Health. W. W.
Norton & Company (2016), First edition.
Gut Microbiome in Health & Disease
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Basic understanding of Microbiology
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the microbiome with a special emphasis on the human gut microbiome
2.  Outline the process of establishment of the gut microbiome and will highlight the functions of a
3.  Highlight dysbiosis in the gut microbiome associated with certain diseased states and changes in the
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the importance of the various factors including the diet in shaping the gut microbiome
2.  Study the gut microbiome using well defined and well thought out experimental strategies
3.  Understand the metabolic roles of the microbiome and ideate towards development of novel therapies
that may target the microbiome
Introducing the Human Microbiome [8 Lectures]: Microbes on & within us, The great plate count anomaly (1
lecture), The microbiome in early life (3 lectures), Development of the microbiome with age (4 lectures)
Exploring  the  Human  Gut  Microbiome  [8  Lectures]:  Accessing  the  microbiome  (bacteria,  fungi,  viruses)  (2
lectures), Culture based & culture independent methods (2 lectures), Sequencing based approaches, Next-
generation sequencing based approaches (2 lectures), Interpreting microbiome data (2 lectures)
Functions of the Gut Microbiome [8 Lectures]: Metabolic functions of the microbiome (4 lectures), Microbiome
in immunity, Infection control by the microbiome (2 lectures), Microbiome in nutrition (2 lectures)
Factors  impacting  the  Microbiome  [6  Lectures]:  Mode  of  delivery,  Diet  &  nutrition  (2  lectures),  Drugs  &
antibiotics (1 lecture), Ethnicity & race, Host genetics (2 lectures), Early-life infections, Medical procedures,
Probiotics, Prebiotics (1 lecture)
Gut microbiome dysbiosis & Disease [7 Lectures]: Obesity, Type II Diabetes (2 lectures), Cancer, Autoimmune
disorders (2 lectures), Gut-brain axis (2 lectures), Inflammatory bowel disease (1 lecture)
Therapies  targeting  the  Microbiome  [3  Lectures]:  Probiotics,  Prebiotics  (1  lecture),  Fecal  microbiota
transplantation (1 lecture), Targeted depletion, Phage therapy (1 lecture)
1.  D. Haller, Ed. The Gut Microbiome in Health & Disease, (2018), Springer (2018), 1st Edition.
2.  L. Pray, L. Pillsbury, E. Tomayko, Workshop Summary: The Human Microbiome, Diet & Health, The
National Academies Press (2012), First edition.
Research articles, Case reports & Review articles as provided by the Instructor
Bioscience and Bioengineering
BBL4XX0 (Level 400)
Bioprocess Engineering and Fermentation
The instructor will provide an insightful overview of the integrative nature of different unit operations used
for the downstream processing of microbial  product .
The students will have the ability to:
1. Appreciate the underlying principles of downstream processing.
2. Design an effective and economic downstream processing strategy for a particular microbial product.
Fractal 1. Scope of downstream processing, selection of bio-separation techniques (5 lectures), unit operations
in  downstream  processing  (4  lectures),  intracellular  vs  extracellular  products,  isolation  of  intracellular
products , methods of cell disruption (5 lectures)
Fractal 2: Methods of solid-liquid extraction (2 lectures), centrifugation and filtration (basic principles, design
characteristics) (5 lectures), reverse osmosis, ultracentrifugation, sedimentation (5 lectures), electrophoresis
and dialysis (2 lectures).
Fractal  3:    Evaporation  (2  lectures),  liquid-liquid  extraction,  chromatographic  techniques  (ion  exchange,
affinity and gel permeation) (5 lectures), spray drying and lyophilization (5 lectures), crystallization in final
product formulation (2 lectures).
P. M. Doran, Bioprocess Engineering principles, Academic press (2012), 2nd edition.
G.  Roger,  G.  Harrison,  W.  Paul,  W.  Todd , S.  R.  Rudge ,P.   Demetri.  Petrides,  Bioseparations  Science  and
Engineering (Topics in Chemical Engineering),  OUP USA (2015), 2nd edition.
NPTEL course, Prof. Mukesh Doble, IIT Madras,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/106/102106022/
Therapeutic Engineering and Drug Discovery
Specialization Core (8 credits)
Specialization Elective (12 Credits)
- Modern approaches of drug designing
-  Anti-microbial drug and drug resistance (2-0-0)
-  Anticancer drug discovery and development
- Introduction to Precision Medicine (3-
- AI based drug discovery (2-0-0)
-  Modern approaches for immunotherapy (3-0-0)
-  Novel Drug Delivery Systems (3-0-0)
-  Theranostic Systems (3-0-0)
-  Industry collaborated project
4 credit (0-0-6) x 1
Modern approaches of drug designing
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Biophysics and Structural Biology (PC)
BBL4XX0 (Level 400)
The instructor will provide:
1. In-depth understanding of the modern approaches involved in drug designing and drug screening.
2. Introductory idea of the drug targets and their identification.
3. Detailed understanding of work flow of modern drug designing.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Conceptualize the basic principles of state of the art techniques used in drug designing and screening
2. Understand the basic principles of modern day drug designing steps.
3. Conceptualize the basic principles and applications of modern day drug designing approaches to meet
up the demands of pharmaceutical industries.
Introduction to Drugs, Drug Discovery and Drug targets [9 Lectures]: Definition of drugs; criteria of a good drug;
historical perspective of drug designing approaches; brief outline of modern day drug designing approaches
(4 Lectures); Drug targets and Drug target hot spots (5 Lectures).
Rational drug designing approaches and techniques [18 Lectures]: in silico based approaches to identify drug target
hotspots (homology modelling, virtual screening, molecular dynamic simulation) (5 Lectures).  Biochemical
and  Biophysical  principles  to  develop  drug  screening  assays  (4+4  Lectures);  Single  molecule  based  high
throughput methods of drug screening (5 Lectures)
Ligand based drug designing approaches [10 Lectures]: Identification of molecular scaffold and pharmacophore
mapping; pharmacophore screening (3 Lectures); pharmacophore modification and combinatorial chemistry
(3 Lectures); lead optimization (2 Lectures)
Validation of therapeutic leads [5 Lectures]: Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology analysis of top therapeutic
leads (ADMET analysis); drug testing (brief idea of different phases of clinical trial).
1.  K. Stromgaard, P. K. Larsen, U. Madsen, Drug design and discovery, Taylor and Francis (2016), 5th edition.
2.  D. Ekinci. Medicinal Chemistry and Drug design, Intechopen (2012), First edition.
Introduction to Precision medicine
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
Provide an introduction to precision medicine
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Understand fundamentals of techniques to create and analyse effective methods for precision medicine
Introduction  to  Precision  Medicine[8Lectures]:  fundamentals  of  genetics  as  these  apply  to  personalized
medicine  (DNA  structure;  RNA;  protein  structures;  function  of  DNA;  coding;  DNA  variations;  types  of
Ethical Aspects of Precision Medicine [5 Lectures]: Privacy, Informed consent and social justice, case studies.
Studying Genetic Variation [5 Lectures]: how we study genetic variation in families and populations. Family
history and inheritance patterns, ancestry, and linkage. Contemporary techniques and technologies [8 Lectures]:
Technologies used to study genetic variation, including genome-wide association and sequencing.
Case  studies  in  Precision  Medicine  I  [8  Lectures]:  specific  cases  in  personalized  medicine.  Familial
hypercholesterolemia: how we use genomic medicine to move from a rare disease to a common medication,
using genomics to find new drug targets, and a discussion of the side effects of statin therapy.
Case  studies  in  Precision  Medicine  II  [8  Lectures]:  Other  case  studies  will  include:  cystic  fibrosis,  Marfan
syndrome, heart failure, neuropsychiatric diseases, cancer and diabetes.
1. H. P. Deigner, M. Kohl, Precision Medicine Tools and Quantitative Approaches, 1st Edition, Academic
2. R.A. Goldsby, J. K. Thomas and A. Barbara, K. Osborne., Kuby Immunology, Freeman,2002, 6th Edition
1. K. Murphy, P. Travers, M. Walport, M. Janeway, C. Janeway’s Immunobiology. New York: Garland
Science (2011), 8th edition.
2. M. T. Madigan, J. M. Martinko, J.M. Brock, Biology of Microorganisms, Prentice-Hall, Inc., (2006), 11th
Online Course Material
1. NPTEL Video Lectures on Human Molecular Genetics by Prof S Ganesh,  Indian Institute of Technology
2. NPTEL Video Lectures on  Essentials in Immunology by Prof. R. Manjunath, Prof. Dipankar Nandi ,
Prof. Anjali Karande, Indian Institute of Science Bangalore  (http://nptel.ac.in/courses/104108055/)
3. NPTEL Video Lectures on  Cellular and Molecular Immunology by Prof. Sachin Kumar, Indian Institute
of Technology Guwahati  (http://nptel.ac.in/courses/102103038/)
AI based drug discovery
Bioscience & Bioengineering
This course will involve a deep dive into recent advances in AI in healthcare, focusing in particular on deep
learning approaches for drug discovery problems.
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand various methods for representation of a molecule, molecular descriptors, structure
2.  Select/Develop an appropriate DL/ML techniques to perform a particular drug discovery related
Fractal  1  [14  lectures]:    Introduction,  Chemical  formats:  Key  features  of  SDL,  MDL  and  PDB  files,  SMILES
systems (4 lectures), Morgan algorithm for consistent labelling and structural ordering, Canonical Smile, CML
file,  Conversion  of  file  formats  (4  lectures),  Molecular  descriptor  (0-4D  descriptors),  molecular  interaction
field (MIF) (2 lectures) and comparative molecular field analysis (CoMFA) (1 lecture), molecular fingerprints
(path based and sub structure), descriptor to data matrix conversion.(3 lectures)
Fractal 2 [14 lectures]:  Identification of relevant molecular descriptors using feature selection techniques and
deep learning (3 lectures), application of supervised learning and deep learning for predictive modelling of
QSAR  (3  lectures),  ligand  based  virtual  screening  (1  lecture),  ADME  and  drug  sensitivity  prediction  (2
lectures), unsupervised learning for denovo drug molecule design, drug repurposing, and meta data based
analysis of target-disease-drug association. (5 lectures)
1.  N. Brown, Artificial Intelligence in Drug Discovery, Royal Society of Chemistry (2020), 1st edition.
2.  M.  Chang,  Artificial  Intelligence  for  Drug  Development,  Precision  Medicine,  and  Healthcare,  Taylor  &
Francis Group (2020), 1st edition.
1.  A.R R. Leach, Molecular Modelling: Principles and Applications, Prentice Hall, (2001), 2nd edition.
2.  B.  Ramsundar,  P.  Eastman,  P.  Walters,  V.  Pande,  Deep  Learning  for  the  Life  Sciences:  Applying  Deep
Learning to Genomics, Microscopy, Drug Discovery, and More, "O'Reilly Media, Inc. (2019), 1st edition.
1. AI in Drug Discovery Decision Support, IBM Watson Health,
2. Deep Learning for Drug Discovery, BayesGroup.ru, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xf2uI4S9IMo
Anti-microbial drugs and drug resistance
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Basic understanding of Microbiology
The Instructor will:
1.  Outline how antimicrobials work against microbes and how microbes are evolving resistance against
these life-saving drugs
2.  Highlight the key drivers of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and describe what can be done to curb
3.  Discuss key problems in solving the AMR problem
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the importance of correct use of current antibiotics
2.  Identify potential targets in microbes for development of new antimicrobials
3.  Ideate about solving problems associated with AMR emergence and tackling AMR
Antimicrobials  [7  Lectures]:  Classes  of  antimicrobials,  Mechanism  of  actions  of  antimicrobials  (2  lectures),
Cellular targets of antimicrobials (2 lectures), Correct use of antimicrobials (1 lecture), Laboratory testing
for antibiotic susceptibility (2 lectures)
Resistance  to  Antimicrobials  [7  Lectures]:  General  mechanisms  of  resistance  to  antimicrobials  (3  lectures),
Evolution of antimicrobial resistance (1 lecture), Genetics of antimicrobial resistance (1 lectures), Molecular
testing for antibiotic resistance (1 lecture), Transmission of antimicrobial resistance (1 lecture)
Drivers of Antimicrobial Resistance [4 Lectures]: Inappropriate usage of antimicrobials (1 lecture), Industrial
use of antimicrobials (2 lectures), Persistence as a driver of antimicrobial resistance (1 lecture)
Tackling Antimicrobial Resistance [10 Lectures]: Case studies on clinical impact of antimicrobial resistance (2
lectures),  Development  of  new  antimicrobials,  Finding  novel  drug  targets  in  drug  resistant  bacteria  (2
lectures), Drug repurposing (1 lecture), Antimicrobial stewardship & responsible use of antimicrobials (1
lecture),  Alternative  therapies  for  drug  resistant  infections  (2  lectures),  Tracking  drug  resistant  bacteria:
Molecular epidemiology (2 lectures)
1.  J. M. Willey, L. M. Sherwood, C. J. Woolverton, C. J., Prescott’s Microbiology, McGraw Hill (2013), 9th
2.  M. T. Madigan, K. S. Bender, D. H. Buckley, W. M. Sattley, D. A. Stahl, Brock Biology of Microorganisms,
Pearson (2018), 15th edition.
Research articles, Case reports & Review articles as provided by the Instructor
Anticancer Drug Discovery and Development
Bioscience & Bioengineering
B. Tech. Program 4th Year
BBL4XX0 (Level 400)
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the insights of the molecular mechanism of carcinogenesis.
2.  Provide  the  knowledge  of  anticancer  drug  discovery,  mechanism  of  cancer  drug  resistance  and
upcoming anticancer therapeutics.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Understand the molecular mechanism of carcinogenesis and cellular factors regulating carcinogenesis.
2.   Understand  the  mode  of  action  of  common  anticancer  drugs,  molecular  mechanism  of  cancer  drug
3.   Adopt the importance of upcoming therapeutic strategies to combat cancer.
(5  Lectures);  Retrotransposones  and  carcinogenesis
Carcinogenesis:  (14  lectures)  Molecular  mechanism  of  carcinogenesis,  Genetic  and  Epigenetic  factors
Carcinogenesis  associated  phenomena  (Alteration  of  kinase  activities,  Protein  turnover  kinetics,  tissue
invasion and angiogenesis) (5 Lectures).
Target  identification  and  anticancer  drug  discovery:  (14  lectures)  Brief  history  of  Cancer  chemotherapy  (2
Lectures); Biomarkers, Cancer specific validation and use of biomarkers for anticancer drug discovery (4
Lectures),  Example  of  drug  targets  for  cancer  chemotherapy  [Cell  cycle  checkpoint  proteins  and  their
regulators  (2  Lectures);  Tumor  suppressors  (2  Lectures);  Cellular  Growth  factors  (2  Lectures)  Protein
turnover enzymes (2 Lectures)]
Anticancer therapies: (14 lectures) Strategies to develop anticancer drugs (small molecule and peptide based)
(5  Lectures);  Mode  of  action  of  common  anticancer  drugs  and  Cancer  drug  resistance  (5  Lectures);
Therapeutic antibodies as anticancer drugs (2 Lectures), AON and RNAi based anticancer therapies, Gene
editing as cancer therapy (2 Lectures).
1. B. C. Baguley, and D. J. Kerr, Anticancer Drug Development , (2001), Elsevier (2001), First edition.
2. L. Wolfgang, Principles of Cancer Treatment and Anticancer Drug Development, (2019), Springer (2019),
M. S. Chorghade, Drug Discovery and Development, Volume 1, Wiley (2006).
Online Course Material
the  war  on
the  war  on
3.  Discovery of biomarkers predictive of anticancer drug response in preclinical settings by Dr. Benjamin
Haibe Kains, University of Toronto, Canda. (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KtR3Ufnn09o)
Modern approaches for
Bioscience and Bioengineering
BBL4XX0 (Level 400)
The human immune system:
mechanisms to detect, defend and
The instructor will:
Provide an insight about the potential of  the component of immune systems as therapeutics
1. Student will be able to understand the possible consequences of using different component of immune
systems as therapeutics.
2. Students will be able to design an immunotherapeutics
Fractal 1 [14 lectures]: Principle and scope of immune-therapeutics, classification of immune-therapeutics
(4  lectures),  immune  modulators  and  immunoadjuvant  (5  lectures),  soluble  cytokine  receptor  and
recombinant cytokines (5 lectures).
Fractal  2  [14lecture]:  Human  monoclonal  antibody,  human  hybridoma  and  phage  display  library  (4
lectures), chimeric, humanized and fully human antibodies (4 lectures), engineered therapeutic antibodies
(type, synthesis, and mechanism of action) (4 lectures), antibody fragments (2 lectures).
Fractal 3 [14 lectures]:  Principle of cell based adoptive immune therapy (3 lectures), tetramer technology
and selection of antigen specific CTL (2 lectures), CAR T cell therapy, NK cell therapy (4 lectures), Dendritic
cell vaccine, immune-adjuvant therapy, exosome mediated treatment (5 lectures).
B. T. Smith, Concepts in Immunology and Immunotherapeutics, American society of health-system
pharmacists (2008) , 4th Edition.
P. A. Ascierto , D. F. Stroncek , E. Wang, Developments in T Cell Based Cancer Immunotherapies,
Humana (2015), 1st edition.
1. MITOpenCourseware, https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-012-introduction-to-biology-fall-
2. MITOpenCourseware, https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-of-mice-and-men-humanized-
Novel Drug Delivery Systems
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide deep insight on different strategies in designing a drug delivery system to overcome potential
2. Provide conceptual basis to integrate different drug delivery systems with modern electronic platforms
for remote monitoring and management of patients.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design a drug delivery system for a specific application.
2. Formulate novel strategies for personalized drug delivery.
Fractal 1. Sustained and stimuli-responsive drug delivery systems [14 lectures]: particulate and vesicular drug
delivery systems (5 lectures), hydrogels (2 lectures), pH, temperature, light and magnetic field responsive
drug delivery systems (5 lectures), iontophoretic drug delivery systems (2 lectures).
Fractal 2. Site-specific drug delivery [14lectures]: Route of drug administration and its limitations, site-specific
drug delivery systems (4 lectures), delivery vehicles to cross blood brain barrier (BBB), colon-specific drug
delivery, ocular drug delivery system (5 lectures), transdermal patches to cross skin barrier, tumor specific
drug delivery, lung specific drug delivery (5 lectures).
Fractal 3. State-of-art drug delivery systems [14 Lectures]: IoT and remote controlled drug delivery systems (5
lectures), biomimetic systems for drug delivery (3 lectures); delivery of cell based therapeutics (3 lectures),
case studies on state-of-art drug delivery systems (3 lectures).
1. W. R. Wagner, Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials in Medicine, Academic Press Inc (2020);
2. R.K. Keservani, A.K. Sharma, Nanoparticulate Drug Delivery Systems, Apple Academic Press (2019), 1st
Controlled and novel drug delivery, N.K. Jain, 2019, CBN Publishers, 1st edition.
1. Prof. Rachit Agarwal, IISc Bangalore, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/108/102108077/
2.  MIT  Open  Courseware,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-the-microbiome-and-drug-
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an insight on the design principles of theranostic systems.
2. Introduce various techniques for characterizations of theranostic systems.
3. Decipher the possible mode of application of theranostic systems in diseased conditions.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design and develop a theranostic system for a specific application.
2. Compare the performance of different theranostic materials on the basis of their physico-chemical and
Fractal  1.  Introduction  to  theranostic  systems  [14  lectures]:  Key  features  of  theranostic  systems  (1  lectures);
combinatorial  modalities  of  theranostic  system  (1  lectures);  basic  theranostic  templates:  mesoporous
materials  (2  lectures),  carbon  nanostructures  (2  lectures),  membrane  vesicles  (2  lectures);  surface
engineering  of  theranostic  platforms  (2  lectures);  up-  and  down-conversion,  magnetic,  plasmonic  and
radioactive platforms (4 lectures).
Fractal 2. Physico-chemical characterization of theranostic systems [14 lectures]: photophysical and photochemical
properties (3 lectures), magnetic properties (T1 and T2 relaxations) (2 lectures), hyperthermia (4 lectures);
plasmonic  properties:  localized  surface  plasmon  resonance  (LSPR)  (3  lectures),  quantification  of
radioactivity (2 lectures).
Fractal 3. Case studies on theranostic systems [14 lectures]: Case studies on theranostic systems for cancer (5
lectures),  vascular  and  brain  diseases  (5  lectures);  Case  studies  on  laparoscopy  and  endoscopy-guided
theranostic systems (4 lectures).
1. Z. Dai, Advances in Nanotheranostics I: Design and Fabrication of Theranostic Nanoparticles (Springer
Series in Biomaterials Science and Engineering Book 6) 1st edition (2016) ISBN-10: 978-3-662-48544-6.
2.  Z.  Dai,  Advances  in  Nanotheranostics  II:  Cancer  Theranostic  Nanomedicine  (Springer  Series  in
Biomaterials Science and Engineering Book 7) 1st edition (2016) ISBN 978-981-10-0063-8 .
1. S.T. Selvan, K. Narayanan, Introduction to Nanotheranostics (Springer Briefs  in Applied Sciences and
Technology) 1st edition (2016) ISBN 978-981-10-1008-8
2. J. Conde, Handbook of Nanomaterials for Cancer Theranostics, Elsevier, (2018) ISBN: 978-012-81-3339-2.
Program-linked Science Elective/Open Elective
Bioscience and Bioengineering
1. The course provides insights of human nervous systems.
2. This course offers an introduction to the basic principles of brain functioning.
The students will have the ability to: Gain experience for the future forefront of their research career and this
can be applied to fields, where understanding brain response to complex machine sensory information inputs.
Introduction of Neuroscience [5 Lectures]: Nervous systems: basic structure, development and complexity and
cellular component of nervous tissue.
Neuronal  architecture  [5  Lectures]:  structure  and  functional  properties  of  neurons,  types  of  neurons  and
supporting cells of nervous tissue.
Neurotransmitters  and  Synaptic  Integration  [5  Lectures]:  Neurotransmitters  signaling,  action  potential
propagation, synapse and synaptic transmission and electrical or chemical synapses.
Brief Anatomy of Brain  [5 Lectures]: Brain structure overview, white and gray matter and different sectional
views of brain.
Fundamentals of Sensory Systems [5 Lectures]: Sensory systems  principles, sensitization and desensitization of
sensory receptors and sensory coding.
Somatosensory  System  [5  Lectures]:  Organization  of  somatosensory  system,  various  receptors  viz
mechanoreceptors, proprioceptors, nociceptors, thermal receptors and visceral sensations.
Motor System [5 Lectures]: Neuromuscular junction, primary and secondary motor  cortex and integration of
sensory signals to motor actions and motor neuron diseases.
Auditory System [5 Lectures]: Structure of internal ear, temporal responsiveness, ribbon synapse and mapping
at auditory cortex.
Visual  System  [5  Lectures]:  Structural  organization  of  visual  pathways;  visual  perception  and  processing,
photoreceptors and high-level visual processing.
1. E. R. Kandel., Principles of Neural Science,  Elsevier (2018), 5th Edition.
2. Zigmond., Fundamental Neuroscience,  Elsevier (2018), 5th Edition.
Dr. Varadhan SKM, Neuroscience of Human Movement, NPTEL Course Material Department of Biomedical
Engineering IIT Madras, Link: https://nptel.ac.in/noc/courses/noc18/SEM2/noc18-ge13/