Faculty Members | Civil and Infrastructure Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Specialization for Positions in Department of Civil Engineering
Applications are invited from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for contractual and full-time positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the Department of Civil Engineering to carry out teaching-learning and research in the following sub-disciplines: Architecture,
Building Sciences and Services,
Building Safety, Urban Infrastructure, Urban Planning.
The Department also welcomes applicants with background in classical fields of Civil Engineering (Environmental Engineering, Geomatic Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering and Geology, Hydraulic Engineering, Transportation Engineering, and Structural Engineering). Applicant should preferably have undergraduate degree in Civil Engineering from a reputed Institute or University along with good academic record throughout from Class X. The Institute is building extensive laboratory facilities with advanced state-of-the-art equipment to undertake research and development. Further, the Department encourages faculty members to interact with the industry and national laboratories to conduct research and development in nationally relevant areas.
The Department will offer Undergraduate, Masters and Doctoral Degree Programs in Civil Engineering. For more information, please visit the Department website at:
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Interested persons may apply at:
Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 10 departments. These are:  Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical & Materials Engineering Physics
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 09 Mar 2026 - 09:58 AM