IITJ – Location & Campuses | Bachelor of Technology | IIT Jodhpur
IITJ – Location & Campuses
(Q1)   How to reach IIT Jodhpur?   IIT Jodhpur is located on the outskirts of the city of Jodhpur and is well connected to other parts of  the coun try by road, rail and air. The Institute is located on National Highway 62 at Karwad Village, about 24 km from the railway station and 25 km from the airport; it takes approximately 45 mins and 40 mins to drive from airport and railway station to the Institute, respectively.   Jodhpur is connected well by road, rail and air to all major cities in the country, and by mega highways to major neighbouring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad.      1.  It is connected by rail to major cities in the country, like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kota, Kanpur, Ahmedabad, Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Guwahati, Nagpur, Lucknow and Jaipur;      2. There are daily flights from Delhi and Mumbai to Jodhpur. Air India and Jet Airways operate the daily flight to each of these cities; and      3. Jodhpur is connected by mega-highway to major neighbouring cities, e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad. Deluxe and express buses ply to Jodhpur from Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Baroda.   Reaching IIT Jodhpur:       (a)  From Airport to Campus   You can take a prepaid auto/taxi to the Institute, which is situated on National Highway 62, Nagaur Road, Karwad. You may ask the driver to go past Mandore on Nagaur Road. This Campus is about 25 km from the airport.   (b) From Railway Station to Campus   At Jodhpur Junction Railway Station, exit from Platform No.1 side. You can take a prepaid auto/taxi to the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur, which is situated on National Highway 62, Nagaur Road, Karwad. You may ask the driver to go past Mandore on Nagaur Road. This Campus is 24 km from the Station .          (Q2)  Once I reach IIT Jodhpur for admission, will IIT Jodhpur provide accommodation for my parents also?   Students who are going to take admission in IIT Jodhpur will be provided accommodation. But, their parents or accompanying persons have to stay outside. Jodhpur has a number of reasonably priced private guest houses and hotels.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 16 Jan 2026 - 09:58 AM