Internships & Placements | Bachelor of Technology | IIT Jodhpur
Internships & Placements
(Q1)  What are the efforts made by the Institute towards Student Placements?     The prime role of Office of Student Placements is to bridge the gap between the industry leaders of today, and the budding leaders of tomorrow. It will continuously be engaged in inviting companies to our campus and will make rigorous effort to build long term relationship with the organization. The activities of the office are strengthened to provide career planning services which aims to create an encouraging atmosphere for students by providing them ample reminders to build competencies in sync with their dream careers, thereby ensuring their smooth landing into the professional world. Also, it will sensitize students in best possible way by promoting them to take responsibility for their own career decision and prepare themselves for the industry. Thus, it will provide services and resources that assist students in their ongoing efforts of competence developing, career planning and employer searching. The office has to enhance the Employability Quotient of students by mapping the shortcomings in their attitude, skills and knowledge, and by polishing the soft skills through various career development and training programs.   Training and Career Development programs are organized for grooming students with skills needed to face the real world. This year sessions organized were based on:  a)   General career counselling by renowned faculties from other IITs to make students aware with different career prospects and corresponding entry level requirements right from the beginning. This will help students immensely in the careful evaluation of individual strength, and the suitability of a work option. b)   Organizing grooming/soft skills sessions by professionals. The major areas to improve within the realm of soft skills are improving facets of personality, sharpen verbal and written communication skills, learning corporate etiquettes, learning interview skills, handling group discussions, writing customized resume, honing leadership and teamwork skills. The Office builds and expands relationship with companies through social networking and industrial visits. Some renowned companies, like ISRO, L&T, Maruti, TVS, Bosch, Mahindra & Mahindra, VE Commercials, Microsoft, Amazon, DE-Shaw, Barclays, etc. visit IIT Jodhpur for internship and placements.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 16 Jan 2026 - 09:58 AM