Eligibility | Bachelor of Technology | IIT Jodhpur
Eligibility for Admission to B.Tech. Programs Admissions to B.Tech. Programs are made once a year (in July) through the all-India level Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) conducted by IITs. The procedures and other requirements for admission are specified in the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year. 1. Foreign Nationals Applicants, who are NOT citizens of India (by birth or naturalized) at the time of registering for JEE (Advanced) 2016 will be treated as Foreign Nationals. Seats allotted to foreign nationals will be supernumerary with an upper limit of 10% of the total number of seats allocated for Indian Nationals, in every program. Foreign Nationals will be outside the ambit of reservation of seats under the OBCNCL, SC, ST and PwD categories as specified herein. Details of the method of admission, fee, and other conditions are being worked out; the same will be posted on the website as soon as they become available. 2. Reservation of Seats and Admission to Reserved Seats for Indian Nationals Reservation of seats for the various categories shall be in accordance with the policy of the Government of India. The admission process for the reserved seats is as stated below: (a) SC and ST Candidates: Reserved seats are filled on the basis of JEE qualifying norms specified for them. In case these reserved seats remain vacant, other SC and ST candidates (who appeared in JEE and satisfy certain relaxed conditions) are offered admission to the Preparatory Course of one-year duration in Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, and English. On completion of the preparatory course and passing of the examination conducted by the Institute, the candidates are offered admission to the first year of B.Tech. Program against the vacant reserved seats of the year of their appearance in JEE. (b) Other Backward Classes (OBC) Candidates (Not belonging to creamy layer): Reserved seats are filled on the basis of JEE qualifying norms specified for them. (c) PD Candidates: Reserved seats are filled on the basis of JEE qualifying norms specified for them. In case these reserved seats remain vacant, other candidates in their respective categories are offered admission. 3. Change of Program Normally, students shall pursue the respective B.Tech. Program allocated to them at the time of admission. But, the Senate may permit a limited number of students to change their Program as per approved guidelines.   Note: The information furnished above is for quick understanding. Details of the same are available at  http://www.jeeadv.ac.in .
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 16 Jan 2026 - 09:58 AM