Campus Life @ IITJ | Bachelor of Technology | IIT Jodhpur
Campus Life @ IITJ
(Q1)   How is the campus life for Students?   IIT Jodhpur offers plenty of opportunities for the holistic development of Students. Apart from intensive academics with regular classes, assignments and quizzes, Students are encouraged to pursue extra-curricular activities of their choice throughout the year. Two major festivals are organized every year with active participation from hundreds of students from colleges across the nation. Thus, students can prove their mettle and nurture their talent. In addition, everyday life at the Institute has plenty of scope for fun, joy and learning. Besides, students are also encouraged to participate in co-curricular activities to further their all-round personality development. Also, extracurricular activities at the Institute include participation in Science and Technology, Photography, Sports, Music, Astronomy, and Films.  IIT Jodhpur organizes a number of distinct  Intra-Institute level events, workshops and conferences throughout the year. The subdivisions include the following:-   IGNUS- Cultural-Social festival of IIT Jodhpur. Prometeo- Technical festival of IIT Jodhpur. Aaftaab- Literary festival of IIT Jodhpur. VARCHAS- Sports festival of IIT Jodhpur. VIRASAT- a SPIC MACAY festival is a cultural extravaganza to celebrate the variety and richness of Indian Cultural Heritage. NIMBLE- Nimble, the intra-college technical fest provides a platform to the techno buds of the Institute to show their hidden talent. Institute also organises the following Inter-Institute level events:   SPANDAN- Spandan is the intra-institute cultural fest of IIT Jodhpur.   Framed- Annual Art Exhibition of IIT Jodhpur.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 16 Jan 2026 - 09:58 AM