Hostels & Facilities | Bachelor of Technology | IIT Jodhpur
Hostels & Facilities
FAQ for Hostels & Facilities
(Q1) What kind of hostel facility will be provided in IIT Jodhpur?
Students will be provided with a single-occupancy (subject to availability) hostel room, for boys &
girls separate hostels will be provided. The room will be air-cooled, with basic
furniture (table, chair, bed, and almirah) and an internet connection. The
hostels have recreational( TV, Music room, reading rooms, etc) and indoor
sports facilities games. The Dining Hall Building will have separate vegetarian
and non-vegetarian kitchens and dining areas, along with a generic food court.
(Q2) How is hostel allocation done?
The allocation of hostels is done under the supervision of the Chairman, of the
Student Hostel Warden Committee.
(Q3) What facility will be there in my hostel room?
Students are generally allotted air-conditioned rooms, single occupancy (subject to availability), 80 sq.
ft. each, and have basic furniture (table, chair, bed, and almirah) provided by
the Institute. Every hostel is connected via LAN and WiFi coverage.
(Q4) What essential things should I bring?
Apart from clothes, personal items, and study materials, students need to bring
a mattress, pillow, bucket, mug, etc. or can buy them locally.
(Q5) Can I bring any personal electrical items?
No. Student cannot bring any of the electric items, like water heaters, irons,
table fans, table lamps, and electric stoves, for their personal use. Use of any
such equipment in hostel rooms is strictly prohibited.
(Q6) Am I allowed to bring my bike/car to the campus?
No. Students cannot bring motorbikes/scooters/cars to the campus. But, can
have a bicycle on campus. Persons with special needs may be permitted to use
their vehicle based on the request & recommendation of the Medical Officer.
(Q7) I do not have a laptop yet. Is a computing facility available?
The Institute runs a Computer Center with desktop computers for student’s
use as a regular facility. Students can use the same.
(Q8) Jodhpur city is very hot during summer, will coolers be provided in the
The hostel rooms in the IIT Jodhpur are air-cooled. Hence, no personal coolers
are permitted in the hostel rooms as there is no need for the same.
(Q9) Do you have the necessary facilities at your Institute Campus?
The campus of IIT Jodhpur is equipped with basic amenities including Wi-Fi,
recreational rooms, and a Computer Center. Presently, the campus provides
accommodation for Faculty Members, Officers, and Staff Members of the
Following are some basic facilities made available on campus:
(a) ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of State Bank of India (SBI),
Canara Bank & HDFC Lobby as well as an ATM of SBI, Canara Bank & HDFC
each for the ease of students.
(b) Dining Service: Dining Service is available on the Campus. The Dining Hall
offers good quality food, regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene and
nutritional values, and provided at affordable cost.
(c) Food Court: There is a Food Court on the Campus. It provides hygienic
food, fresh juices, and various other snacks till the late hours of the night.
(d) There is a canteen operational till late at night. Several Tea outlets are also
there on the Campus. Several SMA Vending machines are also installed in the
Hostel & departmental area.
(e) Gymnasium: Several gymnasiums are available inside the campus.
(f) Sport Facility: Physical recreation through games and sports has been an
important part of the Institute since its inception. Thus, at IITJ we actively
encourage the students to participate in various sports and games, for which
good facilities (Synthetic Track, Football Field, Hockey, Tennis Court,
Basketball Court, Cricket Practice Pitch with nets, and Cricket Ground with
three pitches) are made available to the students.
(g) Shops: shops catering to the various primary needs of students(saloons,
stationery, Groceries, and Cycle-repairing are available on Campus.
(h) Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the
Institute and various places in the City of Jodhpur at regular intervals.
(i) Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of recreation facilities (like TV
Rooms, where students can enjoy matches and watch movies) along with
indoor games (like table tennis, badminton, chess, etc).
(j) There is a tinkering Lab for the students for their own DIY experiments &
(Q10) What about medical facilities?
The residential campus has a Primary Health Center for providing routine
health services. It provides services to the patients around the clock. In
addition to the availability of medical services at the residential campus, the
Institute has an ambulance service available round-the-clock. Besides, the
Institute has empaneled hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Students are also
provided with medical insurance.
(Q11) What about the availability of counseling services to overcome any
emotional or stress issues?
The Institute has a Student Wellbeing Committee, dedicated Counsellors,
and Wellbeing moderators available on the campus. 24 x 7. Online counseling
support from professionals is also available. There is a weekly arrangement of
the visit of a clinical psychiatrist in the institute PHC for free consultation.
(Q12) What are the security arrangements on the campus?
The campus of IIT Jodhpur is secured throughout the day. The Institute has
round-the-clock, dedicated, professional security arrangements on Campus.
Entry and exit points of the campus, departments, Hostels, and other places
are under 24X7 CCTV Surveillance.
Also, every hostel is manned with security guards. Girls' Hostels are manned
by female security guards.
(Q13) What are the basic facilities for PWD Students?
All the hostels are well equipped with ramps, a Lift facility & washroom to
cater to the needs of PWD Students. Further the hostel wardens and caretakers
are there to provide assistance PWD students.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 16 Jan 2026 - 09:58 AM