Faculty Members | Bioscience & Bioengineering | IIT Jodhpur
Applications are invited from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for contractual and full-time positions at various academic levels (Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor) in the Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering. New faculty members are expected to carry out teaching-learning and research in the following sub-disciplines of focus areas of the Department to develop technological solutions for healthcare, the environment and agriculture.   (1)  Molecular and Cellular Biology Cell Biology, Molecular biology, Microbiology, Immunology, Biochemistry, Physiology, Neuroscience, Neurophysiology, Molecular Biotechnology, Bioenergetics, Biophysics.   (2) Systems and Computational Biology Programming languages, Algorithm design and Analysis, Bioinformatics, Biostatistics, Engineering Mathematics, Genomics & Proteomics, Analysis of Microarray and RNA Sequencing Expression Data.   (3) Biomaterials and Biomechanics Nano-biotechnology, Structural Biology, Medical Biotechnology, Immunotechnology, Stem Cell Biology, Biomaterials, Bio-Macromolecules & Bioengineering, Biomechanics, Spectroscopic methods; and   (4)  Biological Processes and Bio-Devices Metabolic Engineering, Tissue Engineering, Bio-process engineering and technology, IPR and Biosafety, Plant Biotechnology, Environmental Biotechnology, Enzyme science and technology, Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Modeling and simulation of bioprocesses. The Department also welcomes applicants with background in other relevant fields of Bio-Science and Bio-Engineering. Applicants should preferably have an undergraduate degree in an engineering discipline relevant to above fields from a reputed Institute or University along with good academic record throughout from Class X. The Institute is building extensive state-of-the-art centralized laboratory facilities with many advanced equipment to undertake research and development. Further, the Department also encourages faculty members to interact with the industry and national laboratories to conduct collaborative research and development in nationally relevant areas. The Department offers Masters and Doctoral Degree Programs in Bioscience & Bioengineering and will also offer Undergraduate program in Biotechnology. For more information on offered Programs please  click here .
Departments The Institute has organized its academic activities to be conducted through 11 departments. These are:  Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Metallurgical & Materials Engineering Physics
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Mar 2026 - 05:27 PM