Collaborations | Bioscience & Bioengineering | IIT Jodhpur
Faculty Members of the Department have established to conduct research in active collaboration with colleagues from the following Institutions:
Max Planck Institute of Molecular Physiology, Germany University Hospital Erlangen, Germany Christian-Albrecht University of Kiel, Germany Lund University, Sweden University of California, Riverside, USA University of Washington, Seattle, USA University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, USA Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Care Centre, USA University of Melbourne, Australia International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, India Riken Brain Science Institute, Japan Institute of Environmental Medicine, Nagoya University, Japan Juntendo University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan ISIR, Osaka University, Japan Seoul National University , South Korea Kasetsart University, Thailand National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan
Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee Indian Institute of Technology, Indore Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi National Institute of Technology, Rourkela All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata National Brain Research Centre, Gurgaon Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai Indian Institute of Science Education & Research, Bhopal National Institute of Science Education and Research, Bhubaneswar Bose Institute, Kolkata S. N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Kolkata Institute of Bioinformatics and Applied Biotechnology, Bengaluru Institute of Bioinformatics, Bengaluru Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata National Institute of Technical Teachers’ Training and Research, Kolkata Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in Cancer, Mumbai Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, Kolkata Christian Medical College, Vellore Vellore Institute of Technology, Vellore Madurai Kamaraj University, Madurai Central University of Rajasthan, Ajmer Panjab University, Chandigarh Yenepoya University (Deemed), Mangalore
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering is also keen on establishing active collaboration with individuals from academia, R&D laboratories and the industry both within India and abroad, in areas of mutual interest. The domains of these collaborations could include:     Teaching of courses,     Organizing Short Courses / Workshops,     Co-authoring of books,     Undertaking Joint Research, and     Developing technologies for diagnostics and treatment by medical professionals.
Memoranda of Understanding We have active Memoranda of Understanding with:   1. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur   2. National Law University, Jodhpur,   3. CSIR - Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, New Delhi   4. Council for Scientific & Industrial Research which allows us to effectively conduct research and offer courses in interdisciplinary areas. We are also interested in establishing MoUs with National Laboratories, Technological Institutes and Industry Partners.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Mar 2026 - 05:27 PM