Capacity Building | Centre for Digital Health | IIT Jodhpur
One of the major challenges that limits digital healthcare to attain its full potential is the lack of competent human resources in the domain of Digital Health. Such limitation can only be surmounted through extensive capacity building in the domain of digital health across the country among various levels of working professionals, end users, innovators, academicians, policymakers and other relevant stakeholders. As an educational institute of global repute IIT Jodhpur is committed to contribute effectively in capacity building in Digital Health. Keeping that perspective in mind, the Centre for Digital Health is hereby offering a number of programs in Digital Health. The proposed programs will ensure flexible, multi-disciplinary, industry-ready, research oriented and entrepreneurship-enabled capacity building.
Upcoming Programs: Industry Oriented Certificate Courses in Digital Health Industry Oriented Diploma Courses in Digital Health MBA in Digital Health M.Tech in Digital Health Innovation Directed MS(R) in Digital Health
Programs Objective Objective of the programs is the capacity building in the domain of Digital Health through skilling, reskilling and upskilling to cater the needs of the nation's healthcare, foster the economy and contribute to sustainability. It is expected that the programs will be beneficial for Healthcare professionals directly serving the common people at primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare facilities Mid-level and higher-level managers who are involved in the management of secondary and tertiary healthcare facilities. Young professionals aiming to join the workforce in digital healthcare industry Researchers and Innovators working in the domain of digital health Technologist working in healthcare and allied industry People working in the domain of public health and healthcare policy making
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 15 Oct 2025 - 02:28 PM