About Sustainability Plan | Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development | IIT Jodhpur
About Sustainability Plan
At IIT Jodhpur, we organized a series of events and workshops open to all students and staff, aimed at raising awareness and providing training on the environmental, social, and public health aspects of sustainability. The key initiatives includes as follows
Environmental and Social Sustainability Training/Workshop/Events
X International Conference on Sustainable Energy & Environmental Challenges (XSEEC 2025)
Transforming the Thar Ecoregion through Startups, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship for Sustainable Development (THRIVE 2025)
Comprehensive Riverfront Development and Rejuvenation of the Jojari River, Jodhpur (2026)
Training Program on Social and Environmental Aspects of Sustainability.
“Reimagine & Recreate: Waste to Art for a Sustainable Future.”
Zero Waste Marathon
Workshop on Safety and Health of Workers
Environmental Sustainability Training/Workshop/Events
Cleanliness Initiatives and Solid Waste Management (  Download file)
Novel antibiotic discovery from soil bacteria
Disaster Resilience and Cultural Heritage
National MSME Conclave
Sustainable Agriculture (  Download file)
World Health Day 2024
Conservation of Traditional Water Bodies
Development Challenges Ahead
International days (  Download file)
Millet Crop Patterns, Productivity, Consumption, and Farmers
International symposium on chem-e-sorption
Social Sustainability Training/Workshop/Events
Vigyan Jyoti Programme
STEM Teacher Training Program
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility (  Download file)
Summit for Health Equity: Spotlight on Digital Health
Social Networks, Gender Norms, and Labor Supply Rural Development-Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Some Vexing Dimensions of Science, Society and Sustainability
Winter School on AI
Emerging Challenges in Law and Technology
Introduction to Electrical Engineering
Geographic Setting: Snapshot
IIT Jodhpur students and administration have unique understanding of their relationship with the environment they live in. Here on the eastern edge of the Thar Desert, they know intimately the importance of co-existing communities and their adaptations while living with resilience to extreme heat, water management, soils and the flora and fauna. While IIT Jodhpur is young, IIT Jodhpur look with bold vision toward the sustainability.
Evolution of the Sustainability Center
From 2019 IIT Jodhpur declared its commitment to making Western Rajasthan the most sustainable desert institution in India by setting up the Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development (CETSD). More can be read from here .
In the meantime, IIT Jodhpur outlines its  climate action plan and strategy  (open in intranet only) here. It also defines some of the role of CETSD to affirm its resolve to put climate resilient technologies in the service of the location.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 03:36 PM