STI HUB | Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development | IIT Jodhpur
STI HUB IIT Jodhpur
AIM and OBJECTIVE
This project aims to design and implement techno-social interventions in the livelihood systems of the SC communities belonging to Western Rajasthan to create positive impactful solutions in enhancing their quality of life. The project focuses on four areas:
The Rope and Geotextile Manufacturing vertical focuses on training communities on making yarns using natural fibers and its value addition by converting it into products. These products include meshmats , nursery pouches , corridor mats , table mats and tea coasters.
The SSPV or subsurface porous vessel technology is used for irrigation in arid soil. This encourages vegetable cultivation within the residential premises thereby directly contributing to the health of the family.
The Water Purification vertical focuses on distributing low cost highly efficient g-filters to the villagers and simultaneously training potter communities on its manufacturing. G-filters also directly contribute to the health of the people by providing portable water.
The project focuses on 5 remote districts located in the Thar desert region of India including
Conducted more than 40 training sessions in various villages of Jodhpur, Bikaner and Jaisalmer. Trained villagers mostly women in rope making, mesh mat making, ring mat making and nursery pouch making.
Formed 3 clusters in Jodhpur with women working on different artifacts based on natural fiber
Bhawad cluster – 4-5 women
Moklawas Cluster – 3-4 women
Jheepasani Cluster – 3 women
Formed a satellite center at Arna Jharna Museum.
Sale Locations for STI Products
Arna Jharna Museum
Ajju Nursery, Paota
Report : 2023-24  (  13962 KB) Report : 2024-25  (  8538 KB) Report : 2025-26  (  1714 KB)
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 03:36 PM