Khel Khel Mein Vigyan Multilingual STEM Comics for Children | Center for Education Technology (CET) | IIT Jodhpur
Khel Khel Mein Vigyan Multilingual STEM Comics for Children
‘Khel Khel Mein Vigyan’ is a unique series of comic books for children that brings science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) concepts to life through fun, relatable, and exciting narratives. Each story is thoughtfully designed to ignite curiosity, promote critical thinking, and help children see how STEM is woven into their everyday experiences. The first two storybooks of this series were launched on 09 June 2025 in the august presence of Hon'ble Speaker of Lok Sabha, Shri Om Birla.
A joint initiative of the Center for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) and School of Design, IIT Jodhpur, the Khel Khel Mein Vigyan Storybooks are now launched in 12 Indian languages (English, Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Odia, Punjabi, Gujarati, Marathi, Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam, & Tamil), supporting children in learning science through their matribhasha . This initiative aligns with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, which emphasizes multilingual education and the importance of conceptual learning in one's native language in formative years. By combining storytelling with STEM, the series nurtures foundational thinking, promotes inclusivity, and fosters a love for science from an early age—making learning both accessible and joyful for children across diverse linguistic backgrounds.
The Magic Pulley
The Magic Pulley (Hindi)
The Magic Pulley (English)
The Magic Pulley (Assamese)
The Magic Pulley (Bengali)
The Magic Pulley (Odia)
The Magic Pulley (Punjabi)
The Magic Pulley (Gujarati)
The Magic Pulley (Marathi)
The Magic Pulley (Kannada)
The Magic Pulley (Telugu)
The Magic Pulley (Malayalam)
The Magic Pulley (Tamil)
The Mysterious Balloon
Mysterious Balloon (Hindi)
Mysterious Balloon (English)
Mysterious Balloon (Assamese)
Mysterious Balloon (Bengali)
Mysterious Balloon (Odia)
Mysterious Balloon (Punjabi)
Mysterious Balloon (Gujarati)
Mysterious Balloon (Marathi)
Mysterious Balloon (Kannada)
Mysterious Balloon (Telugu)
Mysterious Balloon (Malayalam)
Mysterious Balloon (Tamil)
For more information on this initiative, please write to head_cet@iitj.ac.in .
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 09 Feb 2026 - 09:46 AM