Faculty Development Program on Pedagogy and Technology-enabled Learning | Center for Education Technology (CET) | IIT Jodhpur
Faculty Development Program on Pedagogy and Technology-enabled Learning
In today's rapidly evolving educational landscape, it is crucial for an educator to stay ahead of the curve. The Center for Education and Technology for Education (CETE), through Executive Education Program (EEP) Office at IIT Jodhpur, invites you to participate in our exclusive Faculty Development Program on Pedagogy and Technology-enabled Learning , designed to empower educators with innovative teaching pedagogies, technology integration and best practices using education technology. This 5-day online program comprises sessions from global and national experts to give its attendees a competitive edge in the expanding the frontiers of technology-enhanced learning.
Who should attend
Broad Topics to be covered
Program & Session Details
Who should attend
Faculty and staff members from various disciplines of higher education, including engineering, sciences, arts, social sciences, medicine, and management, doctoral students, school teachers, teaching assistants, school administrators, edtech entrepreneurs, NGO and field practitioners
Developing a comprehensive understanding of the learning process and how to design, deliver and enrich instruction that meets the needs of diverse learners
Enabling educators to adopt innovative teaching and assessment strategies that leverage technology and hands-on experience with edtech tools and resources
Providing educators an exposure to state-of-the-art and emerging trends in education
At the end of this program, the attendees would be able to
Design engaging learning experiences
Create and deliver effective instructional materials and activities using edtech tools
Develop impactful strategies for assessment of learning
Cultivate best teaching and learning practices
Broad Topics to be covered
Learning sciences - Science of learning, approaches to Teaching and Learning, pedagogical styles, types of learning, educational models, psychology of education, inclusive and accessible education
Designing engaging learning experiences - Blended learning, tools for synchronous, asynchronous, and hybrid teaching, interactive learning environments, e-learning tools and technologies, MOOC strategies, instructional design
Technology-enhanced learning - introduction to education technology, using technology in the classroom, tools for teaching and learning, gamification and game-based learning, immersive learning using AR and VR, educational data analytics
Effective assessment and evaluation - formative and summative assessment, rubrics, designing learning objectives and outcomes, ICT tools for designing assessments, AR-VR tools for evaluation
Design of educational multimedia content - instructional design, tools and techniques for content creation, multimedia production
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Nalin Sharda
Distinguished Lecturer, IEEE Education Society; Lead Cloud Instructor, Generation Australia
Dr. Sudarshan Iyengar
Associate Professor and Head, Computer Science & Engineering, IIT Ropar
Dr. Ramkumar Rajendran
Associate Professor, IDP in Education Technology, IIT Bombay
Dr. Aditya Vishwanath
Knight-Hennessy Scholar, Learning Sciences & Technology Design, Stanford University; CEO, Inspirit
Dr. Ashwin T. S.
Post Doctoral Fellow, IDP in Education Technology, IIT Bombay
Dr. Anura Kenkre
Lead Instructional Designer, Upthink
Mr. Pratyush Roy
Engineer (Education Team) Mathworks India
Prof. Ankita Sharma
Professor, School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur
Dr. Rachel Philip
Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur
Dr. Deepak Saxena
Assistant Professor, School of Management and Entrepreneurship, IIT Jodhpur
Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Registration Fee (Deadline: 16 July 2023 5:00 PM, 18 July 2023 )
Professionals/Faculty Members: Rs. 1,000
Students: Rs. 500
Step 1: Complete Payment on e-Pay Platform
Register on IIT Jodhpur's e-Payment portal (https://oa.iitj.ac.in/ePay/) with your email ID. Select 'FDP on Pedagogy and TEL' in the dropdown.
Login credentials for e-Pay portal will then be sent to you over email. Please login at the e-Pay portal with those credentials, select the relevant category (Professional/Student) and complete the payment.
Note the payment reference number and save the screenshot of the confirmation for upload in the FDP Registration Form. (If you face any technical issues on the Payment Portal, please write to oa_automation@iitj.ac.in.)
Step 2: Fill the FDP Registration Form
Note: The Registration Fee covers attendance of all the sessions in online mode. Any participant interested in attending the FDP in person is welcome to visit IIT Jodhpur. In-person attendees would bear their own cost of accommodation, travel, and food.
FDP Registration Form
16 July 2023
5:00 PM, 18 July 2023
Program and Session Details
Each day would have online sessions in forenoon and afternoon (10:00 AM, 11:45 AM, 2:30 PM and 4:15 PM). The Detailed Program is available below. All sessions will be recorded and the recordings shall be made available to all participants for one week. Online Participants must keep their camera ON in all the sessions .
E-Certificates will be given to the registered attendees on successful completion of the program.
Day 01 / 19 July 2023 Introduction to Learning Sciences
10:00 AM Inauguration and Introduction to the Workshop
10:15 AM - 11:30 AM Session 01
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury , Director, IIT Jodhpur
Foresight for Engineering Curriculum
11:45 AM - 1:30 PM Session 02
Prof. Ankita Sharma , Professor, School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur
The Science of Learning: Myths, Facts, and Principles
Myths about learning practices, the application of learning theories, and principles for successful learning
2:30 PM - 4:00 PM Session 03
Dr. Rachel Philip , Assistant Professor, School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur
Digital Dinosaurs and Digital Natives: What teachers believe about technology
The session is an invitation to consider how one's beliefs about technology shape the pedagogical strategies employed by teachers. We will touch upon:
Digital literacies: Assumptions about the contemporary 'learner' and reality-checks
'Smart' Pedagogy: Bridging teacher beliefs and classroom strategies
The Open Classroom: Contemporary technology and transformations in pedagogy
Bridging the Divide: Inclusive and accessible Education
4:15 PM - 5:30 PM Session 04
Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan , Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Integrating technology tools in the classroom
Tools for teaching and interactions during class
Tools for simulation
Making the most of LMSs
Using immersive environments
Some useful browser extensions
Day 02 / 20 July 2023 Designing Learning Experiences
10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Session 01
Dr. Sudarshan Iyengar , Associate Professor and Head, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Ropar
Designing a successful MOOC
11:45 AM - 1:15 PM Session 02
Prof. Nalin Sharda , Former Honorary AA Professor, Victoria University, Australia; Distinguished Lecturer, IEEE Education Society
Scholarship of Teaching and Learning for Innovative Pedagogies: What it is, Why and How to do it
The Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) is not simply teaching well, it is about approaching your teaching as if it were a research topic and finding new ways of teaching using innovative pedagogies. For example, in the context of eLearning, just providing traditional teaching and learning content through eLearning portals is gross underutilisation of the potential of current technologies. We should explore how we can enhance student engagement, and learning outcomes through innovative pedagogies such as:
Seminar: The seminar will explore how can we research and incorporate such innovations in our teaching.
Workshop: The workshop will require participants to explore innovative ways to teach their subjects.
Essential: All participants must keep their cameras on and participate actively.
2:30 PM - 4:00 PM Session 03
Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan , Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Blended Learning: Tools and Best Practices
Introduction to blended learning, types of blended learning
Creating Video-based flipped classroom on Edpuzzle
Analysing data from LMS
Day 03 / 21 July 2023 Technology-enhanced Learning
10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Session 01
Dr. Aditya Vishwanath , Knight-Hennessy Scholar, Learning Sciences & Technology Design, Stanford University; Cofounder, Inspirit
Storytelling with Virtual Reality: Making VR Real for the Classroom
In this session, we will go through a series of lab and field research studies that explore the different kinds of VR, the different ways in which VR has and has not worked in classrooms, and ultimately settle upon a series of design recommendations for how to best design and sustain this new technology for teaching and learning. Participants will also have the opportunity to design their own VR script, using ideas and best practices from design thinking.
11:45 AM - 1:15 PM Session 02
Dr. Deepak Kumar Saxena , Assistant Professor, School of Management and Entrepreneurship, IIT Jodhpur
Scholarship of Teaching and Learning for Innovative Pedagogies: What it is, Why and How to do it
The Tech Behind EdTech
Software Services and Applications
Cloud and Blockchain
Seminar: The seminar will explore how can we research and incorporate such innovations in our teaching.
Workshop: The workshop will require participants to explore innovative ways to teach their subjects.
Essential: All participants must keep their cameras on and participate actively.
2:30 PM - 4:00 PM Session 03
Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan , Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Gamification and game-based learning
Introduction to gamification in education
Gamified quizzes and LMS
Game-based learning in engineering education
Day 04 / 22 July 2023 Learning Analytics and Assessment Strategies
10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Session 01
Dr. Ramkumar Rajendran , Associate Professor, IDP in Education Technology, IIT Bombay
Learning analytics: What and Why
In this session, we will discuss why we need learning analytics and how to collect data from the learning environment and apply analytics. Research projects from the speaker's lab will be demonstrated.
11:45 AM - 1:15 PM Session 02
Dr. Ashwin T. S. , Post Doctoral Fellow, IIT Bombay
Adaptive Tutoring System in Intelligent Learning environments using Multimodal Data
Types of Multimodal Data in Education
General Challenges in using Multimodality
Designing Adaptation Logics
Challenges in Adaptive Tutoring
State-of-the-art in Adaptive Intelligent Tutoring Systems
2:30 PM - 3:45 PM Session 03
Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan , Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Tools and strategies for maintaining academic integrity in assessments
Bloom's Taxonomy to create assessment Strategies to curb cheating in unproctored exams Strategies to maintain integrity in online proctored exams
4:00 PM - 5:30 PM Session 04
Dr. Deepak Kumar Saxena , Assistant Professor, School of Management and Entrepreneurship, IIT Jodhpur Designing formative and summative assessments and rubrics
Formative vs Summative Assessments Assessment vs Feedback Creative Assessment Strategies
Day 05 / 23 July 2023 Instructional Design
10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Session 01
Dr. Anura Kenkre , Lead Instructional Designer, Upthink
Introduction to E-Learning
Product Types in E-Learning Instructional Design Theories Making a visualization effective Interactivity Assessments in E-Learning
11:45 AM - 1:15 PM Session 02
Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan , Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Multimedia and immersive content creation
Principles of multimedia design Creating text and video content using various tools (recording, editing, transcription, etc.) Examples on e-learning authoring tools (eg. Adobe Captivate and Storyline)
2:30 PM - 4:00 PM Session 03
Mr. Pratyush Roy , Engineer (Education Team), Mathworks
MathWorks Support in Education
Introducing Computational Thinking among students Resources & Collaboration Options Demos on MATLAB and Simulink Open Q&A
4:00 PM - 5:00 PM Closing Session
Feedback and Reflections Concluding Remarks and Vote of Thanks
Registration Deadline : 16 July 2023 5:00 PM, 18 July 2023
FDP dates : 19 - 23 July 2023
For any queries, please write to the FDP Coordinator, Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan ( rajlaxmichouhan@iitj.ac.in ), Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering & Affiliate Member of CETE, IIT Jodhpur.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 09 Feb 2026 - 09:46 AM