Welcome to Faculty Positions | Chemistry | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome to Faculty Positions
Welcome to Faculty Positions
Indian Institute of Jodhpur (IIT Jodhpur) invites online applications from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for full-time faculty positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor to conduct teaching and research in the following Departments. Bioscience and Bioengineering Chemical Engineering Chemistry Civil and Infrastructure Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical Engineering School of Liberal Arts Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Mathematics Mechanical Engineering Physics
The Institute cordially invites interested candidates to consider choosing IIT Jodhpur as their venue to realize their dream to serve the nation, through their competencies that would help to address the technology grand challenges of the nation. Persons with exceptional academic and research record in other areas of Engineering and Sciences also are invited to apply.
Welcome to Prospective Applicants for Faculty Positions at IIT Jodhpur!!
and share it with all interested and potential applicants for faculty positions at IIT Jodhpur
The Institute invites applications for full-time Faculty Positions at all three levels, namely, Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor. Interested persons are invited to apply using online portal. 1. Advertisement  Advertisement Number 41 dated 18 August 2023 (rolling advertisement for various Faculty Positions) Online Application Form. 2.  Advertisement Advertisement for iHub Drishti Chanakya Chair Professor(s) Online Application Form.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 12 Mar 2026 - 03:42 PM