Postgraduate Program | Chemical Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
The Department of Chemical Engineering offers the following postgraduate programs:
Master of Technology Program:  M.Tech. in Chemical Engineering Master of Technology-Doctor of Philosophy Dual Degree Program: M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree in Chemical Engineering Through the M.Tech. and M.Tech-Ph.D. programs in Chemical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur is making a conscious effort to divulge from the traditional path and planning to establish itself to become a leading institute in this new genre of Chemical Engineering education. The program involves a mix of traditional courses followed by electives to specialize in the three chosen areas; i) Industry 4.0+Data Analytics; ii) Reaction Engineering; iii) Petroleum and Petrochemicals. Further, the project component ensures hands-on problem-solving skills to enable solving industrial problems as well as undertake research in the different areas of chosen field. Program Objective & Attributes  The graduates of this program will have: In-depth knowledge of chemical engineering and critical awareness of emerging areas such as artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), internet of things (IoT) and data analytics in Chemical Engineering including intelligent process optimization and production simulation. Analytical and experimental skills required for new processes and new products with 3D printing, chemometrics and Industry 4.0 in chemical companies. Strong fundamentals in traditional chemical engineering. Ability to do critical and creative thinking, and to conduct independent and original research and scholarship Ability to apply existing skills and knowledge to identify and formulate new problems, produce new ideas, approaches or actions Ability to teach and express ideas in both written and oral formats Learning Outcomes At the end of the program, a student is expected to have:
Skills for translation of in-depth knowledge of artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), internet of things (IoT), Internet of Cleanliness and data analytics for chemical engineering systems. Ability to design and develop new products and new processes with the knowledge of 3D printing, chemometrics and Industry 4.0 in chemical companies including intelligent process optimization and production simulation. Ability to statistically characterize and evaluate the performance of process systems. Ability to apply the different methods for chemical engineering challenges and advanced research. Carry out research work demonstrating scientific problem solving and generate IPR.
Academic Year Batch
Sarangi V S
Thirumalesh B. S.
Narendra K Nagar
Hemanth K Vaidhya
Mohd Salim Siddiqi
Chaitanya K Gandhi
Akash  Parshuram Mali
Atri Chaturbhai Patel
Hari Priya Abburi
Himangshu Shekhar Das
Vikram Singh Jat
Lalit Kumar Meena
Sandhya G S
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 05:17 PM