Spectroscopy & Biophysics Laboratory | Chemistry | IIT Jodhpur
Spectroscopy & Biophysics Laboratory
The laboratory is focused on elucidating structure, function, dynamics and interactions of chemical entities ranging from small to complex biological macromolecules at the condensed phase as well as single-molecule level using state-of-the-art spectroscopy and biophysics techniques. Progressive uptake of challenging biophysical projects and solving them with cutting-edge spectroscopic and biophysics techniques are the main theme of this lab. Dr. Samanwita Pal's research group focuses to decipher dynamics and interaction of small molecules both in solution and solid state by employing NMR methods based on relaxation, molecular diffusion, chemical exchange and magnetization transfer. The group is involved in design, modification and implementation of NMR pulse sequences to unveil molecular interaction relevant in the field of materials, medicine and environment to name a few. The group is currently investing time in analysing various drug delivery systems ranging from supramolecular to polymeric to metal oxide nanomaterials in terms of drug encapsulation, release mechanism and stability. The group is actively involved in humic substance extraction and design of HS based biosensors for environmental pollution remediation processes.  Additionally, Samanwita’s research group is also interested in NMR metabolomics and solid state NQR. The group further uses various spectroscopic techniques to shed light in the cross-disciplinary areas of renewable energy sources, biomacromolecules and biomaterials. The lab is continuously expanding its research areas for a better understanding of macromolecular systems. Dr. Dibyendu Sasmal’s Research Group is working to unravel complex sub-cellular functions and dynamics at single-molecule level combining multidisciplinary research areas in molecular/cellular biology, physical chemistry, time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy, and fluorescence microscopy. The research group is focused to understand various complex cellular signalings (immunological synapse), immunological interaction (TCR-pMHC), ligand-receptor interaction dynamics, immunotherapy against muscular dystrophy (DMD) and conformation dynamics of ion channels like protein (NMDA receptor) molecules. Sasmal research group is going to develop a micropipette manipulation system (biomembrane force probe) to measure ligand-receptor interaction forces at pico-Newton scale. The lab will build customized TIRF and confocal microscopy systems and combine highly interdisciplinary research areas in chemistry, life science, physics and computer science. In addition, the research group is also focused on understanding biological water dynamics using femtosecond upconversion spectroscopy and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS).
Facilities Available in the Laboratory ( click here  for the list)
Laboratory Users: Student Name Details Research Topic Pratibha Agarwala PhD(D. Sasmal) (July 2019-Present) Turban Bera PhD(D. Sasmal) (Jan 2020-Present) Sakshi Bhagat PhD(S. Pal) (July 2019–Present)  NOTE : We are actively looking for highly motivated postdocs, PhD students, MSc research assistants for our interdisciplinary projects. Applicants with a background in chemistry, biology, physics and computer science are encouraged to visit our research group websites and contact Dr. S. Pal (samanwita@iitj.ac.in) and Dr. Sasmal (sasmal@iitj.ac.in) with CV.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 12 Mar 2026 - 03:42 PM