Computer Science & Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome to the Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering, today, plays a major role in transforming every aspect of human life - in addressing social challenges and catalyzing the ongoing wave of the industrial revolution. The department is driven by its commitment to excel in next generation technology development and research. Our mission is to strengthen industry-academia collaborations and prepare our students to contribute to multi-disciplinary projects and R&D for solving problems of national interest.
Vision To be among the top 10 departments in terms of research contributions, practical impact, and applications of Computer Science and Engineering in the country in the next 3 years, and internationally well known in some focused areas in the next 5 years. Some of our missions are to achieve excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subject for innovative discoveries; develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating; and develop and support the notion of “computing for all” across disciplines at the institute. Mission Our missions are to achieve excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subject for innovative discoveries; develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating; and develop and support the notion of “computing for all” across disciplines at the institute. (M1) Achieving excellence in research in fundamental as well as applied areas of CSE and allied subjects for innovative discoveries. (M2) Develop an academic ecosystem by collaborating within the institute, as well by means of international, national and regional institutes. The collaborations may be fostered by research visits, collaborative projects, joint thesis, internship guidance, research mentoring etc. (M3) Develop and support the notion of “computing for all” across disciplines at the institute. (M4) Embracing shared dialogue across disciplines and encouraging experiential learning to redefine the contours of traditional Computer Science teaching and learning. Be one of the leading departments in the country for hybrid CSE education. (M5) Define and solve real-world problems in collaboration with industry, and
develop industry- connect by means of research grants/ consultancies, and collaborative projects. Develop Start-up ecosystem in emerging areas of
computing in collaboration with other departments at IIT Jodhpur. (M6) Dissemination of knowledge without physical boundaries, i.e. classroom,
online and other modes of teaching, to create a workforce which is ready to ethically solve technological challenges of the next generation. (M7) Provide thought leadership in public policy and ethics of emerging computing technologies towards building an equitable and ethical society.
News & Events
View all news
Dr. Debasis Das received the DST-NSF Project Award 2025, National Science Foundation (NSF), USA, and the Department of Science and Technology (DST) of India.
Dr. Debasis Das received NSTC Research Award-2025, National Science and Technology Council(NSTC), Taiwan, National Sun Yat-sen University(NSYSU), Taiwan.
Swapnil Thatte, Paromita Banerjee, Mayank Vatsa, Richa Singh, Bhanu Duggal, Angshuman Paul submitted an Indian patent on "MFA-U-Net: U-Net with Multi-level Feature Aggregation for Scale-free Medical Image Segmentation" funded by TiH iHub Drishti.
View all highlights
PatientVLM Meets DocVLM: Pre-Consultation Dialogue Between Vision-Language Models for Efficient Diagnosis, AAAI 2026:K Lokesh, Uday Agarwal, Abhirama Subramanyam Penamakuri, Apoorva Challa, Shreya K G
Temporal Object-Aware Vision Transformer for Few-Shot Video Object Detection, AAAI 2026: Yogesh Kumar, Anand Mishra
DBCoreset: A Density-based Coreset Algorithm for Computationally Efficient Chest X-ray Diagnosis, The 2026 IEEE International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging (ISBI): Jayant Mahawar, Angshuman Paul
View all announcements
Ph.D. Admission Result AY 2025-26 SEMESTER II
List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II
List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for admission to the PhD program July 2025 (PDF)
Provisionally shortlisted and waitlisted candidates for M.Tech (CSE & AI) (July-2025)
Rolling Advertisement for admission to Ph.D. Program. (Program Details)
Rolling Advertisement for faculty positions.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 01:10 PM