Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Dual degree M.Tech. (CSE) + PhD
oﬀered by the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Traditionally Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) teaching were focusing on two major areas,
i.e., theories and systems (database, computer hardware, and operating systems). With the advent
of the era of Cloud Computing, Edge Computing, AI and Big Data, the discipline is being transformed
by incorporation of new emerging technologies. It is becoming an instrumental tool in solving major
problems faced by modern society such as energy, natural disasters, pollution, and water. Through
this newly revamped M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs in CSE, IIT Jodhpur is making a
conscious eﬀort to divulge from the traditional path and planning to reposition itself to become a
leading institute in this new genre of Computer Science education.
This M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs in CSE will oﬀer students with deep knowledge
of core and applied computer science. Through this programme, a student will learn niche subject
areas which are of paramount importance in the modern big data era, such as Computer Systems
and Security. This programme is aiming at imparting the necessary breadth and depth to the
students for pursuing careers in academics as well as in industry. This programme is aiming at
extending undergraduate computing skills with up-to-date and in-depth expertise in specialized
areas of Computer Systems and Security.
Expected Graduate Attributes:
After completing this programme, a student will be able to develop an ability to:
1. Understand fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of emerging ﬁelds in Computer
2. Conceive, Design and Develop state-of-the-art scalable parallel and distributed systems
3. Solve Big data problems through the knowledge of advanced data structures, distributed
algorithmic design, analysis, and applications.
4. Design and develop network protocols for Wireless, Sensor, Mobile, and Vehicular networks.
Implement and Integrate cryptographic, fault tolerant algorithms for large scale
6. Understand state-of-the-art hardware platforms for running compute intensive distributed
7. Ability to understand and apply evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and
8. Plan and manage technical projects
1. Understand the fundamentals of algorithmic complexity, advanced computer architecture,
advanced network, and security protocols.
2. Apply appropriate design principles, framework and protocols to develop dependable systems.
3. Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of cutting edge simulation, synthesizing, programming tools.
4. Ability to design and develop system architecture for mobile, cloud, fog, and edge computing.
5. Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of virtualization, data center design and management, and
software deﬁned networking.
6. Skills to comprehend and communicate eﬀectively.
7. Apply appropriate project and business management principles and tools for real-world
Course Structure for the
M.Tech. (CSE) Program and
Dual Degree M.Tech. (CSE)+Ph.D. Program
Bridge Course on DSA
Program Elective 1
Program Elective 2
Software and Data Engineering
Core Bucket: Security and its
Applications, Algorithms for Big
Data, Computer Networks:
Protocols and Applications
Program Elective 3
Open Elective 1
Ethics and Professional Life
*Maths Fractals: Linear Algebra, Probability and Random Processes, Optimization
Total Credits: 16
Total Credits: 16
CSD7xx0 Major Project – Part 1
Program Elective 4
Program Elective 5
Open Elective - 2
System Engineering and
CSD8xx0 Major Project – Part 2
Program Elective 6
Total Credits: 15
Total Credits: 15
**List of Prescriptive Electives
Linear algebra for data science
Statistics for Data Science
*The students should have satisfactory performance in the course in order to be eligible for internships and
placements opportunities from the institute.
**Depending on the background of students, courses from the prescriptive electives can be recommended for
students by the DRC.
Program Electives for M.Tech. (CSE) and
Dual Degree M.Tech. (CSE)+Ph.D. Program
Courses oﬀered by Department of Computer Science and Engineering
5G Mobile Networks
Advanced Computer Graphics
Advanced Computer Networks
Advanced Human Machine Interface
Advanced Operating Systems
Ad hoc Wireless Networks
Advance Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Algorithms for Big Data
Computational Social Choice Theory
Computer Network Protocols and Applications
Crowd-sourcing and human computing
Digital Image Analysis
Digital System Testing
Distributed Database Systems
Edge and Fog Computing
Graph Theory and Applications
Hardware Software Co-Design
ICT for Development
Introduction to AR and VR
Introduction to Wireless Ad hoc Network
Machine Learning with Big Data
Neuromorphic Computing and Design
Mobile and Pervasive Computing
Natural Language Understanding
Software Deﬁned Networks
Software Testing and Quality Assurance
Selected Topics in Computer Science - I/II/III
Social Network Analysis
Special Topics in Algorithms
Security and its Applications
Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks (VANETs)
Virtualization and Cloud Computing
Courses oﬀered by Department of Electrical Engineering
Data Communication and Networking
Digital Video Processing
Digital VLSI  Design
Embedded System Design
Embedded System Design Lab
Introduction to Cyber Physical S
Introduction to Haptics
Introduction to IoT Systems
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation
Information Theory and Applications
Real Time Communications
Real time systems
Sensors and Measurement
Introduction to Smart Grid
Speech and Audio Signal Processing
Statistical Decision Theory
Image Sensor Design and Applications
Courses oﬀered by Department of Mechanical Engineering
Courses oﬀered by Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Courses oﬀered by Department of Mathematics
Computational Game Theory
Advanced topics in Computational PDE
Linear algebra for data science
Numerical Linear Algebra
Courses oﬀered by Department of Physics
Quantum Information Processing
Courses oﬀered by IDRP Digital Humanities
Representation of Finite Groups
Statistics for Data Science
Quantum Cryptography and Coding
Analysis of Social Media Networks
Human Factors in Interaction Design
Courses oﬀered by School of Management and Entrepreneurship
Courses oﬀered by Other Departments
Algorithms in Biology