Admissions | Digital Humanities | IIT Jodhpur
Please note that admissions to M.Sc. and Ph.D programs in Digital Humanities for AY 2021-2022 are now complete, and no further Waiting List may be operated.
MSc Admission in Digital Humanities advertisement for AY 2024-2025 Click here for detailed advertisement
LIST OF PROVISIONALLY SELECTED CANDIDATES FOR ADMISSION TO M.SC. DIGITAL HUMANITIES + WAITING LIST OF CANDIDATES FOR M.SC. DIGITAL HUMANITIES
List of provisionally selected candidates for admission to Ph.D. program in Digital Humanities (AY 2021-2022)
Ph.D. Digital Humanities
List of Candidates provisionally shortlisted for interview (July 2021)
Reporting Details for shortlisted candidates
M.Sc. Digital Humanities
List of Candidates provisionally shortlisted for interview (July 2021)
Reporting details for shortlisted candidates
Qualifying Criteria for Interview-Call
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Ques. What is Digital Humanities (DH)? Ans. Digital Humanities or DH is a novel interdisciplinary field where several disciplines such as computer science, mathematics, literary and cultural studies, sociology, geography, new media studies, cinema studies intersect, and collaborate with each other. In this emergent interdisciplinary field, scholars try to use computational and mathematical means to solve humanities and social science problems often intrinsic to their own disciplines. Ques.  Why should I pursue a degree in Digital Humanities? Ans.  As a new domain of research, DH poses many positive challenges that will stimulate any researcher. It has an enormous global reach but very few institutions in India have been able to organize and offer courses devoted to DH. Hence your training in DH will contribute to your betterment as a researcher and also to your acceptability in the global job market, in academia as well as in certain industries. Ques.  What are the academic opportunities for a DH graduate? Ans.  It depends mostly on the background of the graduate, but courses such as digital economics, smart healthcare, and archiving and databases will prepare her for opportunities in these fields. Specialists from the relevant industries will conduct workshops here in IITJ to make students ready for the job market. Moreover, Students with sociological/anthropological background and motivation and a degree in DH will be indispensable as research assistants and that experience will contribute to their own research. Ques.  What other sectors may find DH graduates employable? Ans.  DH is an emergent discipline with strong networks across the globe, many universities in the UK, USA, Australia have DH departments/centres/schools. DH graduates from IITJ may have their opportunities for doctoral and postdoctoral positions abroad, especially since more traditional Indian universities rarely prepare their students for the challenges posed by such new disciplines. Ques.  Does IITJ have a placement cell that can help DH graduate students? Ans.  IITJ has a well-equipped Career Development Centre (CDC) with staff-members having industrial experience. It functions as a placement cell, organizes industrial events and helps students with employment opportunities. That service might be beneficial for the DH graduates as well. Ques.  What are the academic programs in Digital Humanities offered by IIT Jodhpur? Ans.  Currently, the Institute offers two regular degree programs in Digital Humanities: Master of Science (M.Sc.) and Doctoral program (Ph.D.). Ques.  Is there an integrated M.Sc.-Ph.D. program in DH? Ans.  Currently, the Institute does not offer an integrated M.Sc. – Ph.D. program in Digital Humanities. Ques.  Who is eligible to apply for M.Sc. in Digital Humanities? Ans.  We encourage candidates having a regular bachelor degree with a background in Humanities, Social Science, or Basic Science disciplines to apply for M.Sc. in Digital Humanities. Other eligibility criteria are as per Institute norms. Ques.  Who is eligible to apply for Ph.D. in Digital Humanities? Ans.  We encourage candidates having a regular masters degree with a background in Humanities, Social Science, or Basic Science disciplines to apply for Ph.D. in Digital Humanities. We also encourage candidates having B.Tech degrees and other related backgrounds to apply for our Ph.D. program. Other eligibility criteria are as per Institute norms. Ques.  What is the admission procedure for M.Sc. in Digital Humanities?   Ans.  He admission procedure for M.Sc. Digital Humanities is a two-step process: (1) Candidates are expected to submit completed applications by the due date, and (2) Shortlisted candidates are invited for a brief interaction with faculty members before the final selection list is prepared and declared. Ques.  What is the admission procedure for Ph.D. in Digital Humanities? Ans.  The admission procedure for Ph.D. Digital Humanities is a three-step process: (1) Candidates are expected to submit completed applications by the due date, (2) Shortlisted candidates are invited for a written test and (3) a brief interaction with faculty members before the final selection list is prepared and declared. Ques.  Is there an entrance test for M.Sc. Digital Humanities? Ans.  No, there is no entrance test for M.Sc. Digital Humanities. Ques.  Is there an interview process for M.Sc. Digital Humanities? Ans.  Yes, there is a brief interaction process for shortlisted candidates in M.Sc. Digital Humanities. Ques.  Is there an entrance test for Ph.D. Digital Humanities? Ans.  Yes, there is an entrance test for shortlisted candidates in Ph.D. Digital Humanities. Ques.  Is there an interview process for Ph.D. Digital Humanities? Ans.  Yes, there is an interview process for shortlisted candidates in Ph.D. Digital Humanities.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Feb 2026 - 10:22 AM