M.Sc. Digital Humanities | Digital Humanities | IIT Jodhpur
M.Sc. Digital Humanities
Master of Science (M.Sc.) in Digital Humanities at IIT Jodhpur is designed to address developments, implications, and inflections of digital technologies on historical and contemporary culture, and society. To contextualize, disciplinary evolutions of the natural sciences, social sciences, the arts and humanities and allied technologies have converged and diverged over the centuries. The digital scholarship in the social sciences, the arts and humanities are only emerging. One reason for the growth of digitization in the social sciences, the arts and humanities is not an emulation of the natural sciences, rather, discovering meaning in the application of information technology as an aid to fulfil the disciplines’ basic tasks of preserving, reconstructing, transmitting, and interpreting the human record historically and contemporaneously. Given the above, the primary objective of this program is to orient students in the ways in which the study of the humanities, social sciences, and similar areas have been transformed by the influence of digital technologies and economic compulsions. This confluence of disciplines has redefined the contours of the subject of “humanities”. In the present context, a critical interrogation into the history of digital approaches to the humanities, modes of implementation of digital tools & platforms, issues related to the utilization of big data (through database construction, text markup, informatics, statistical analysis to name a few) are imperatives in contemporary research in Humanities. This interdisciplinary M.Sc program has been tailored to provide such critical insights into the key parameters that are continually influencing and impacting the amalgamation of diverse disciplines, especially digital technologies with humanities that will re-engineer emerging societal structures and behavior.
Objectives The M.Sc. DH program offers unique opportunities to redraw conventional disciplinary boundaries among the humanities, the social sciences, the arts, technology and engineering, and the natural sciences. Primary objectives of the program include (but are not limited to): Exploring contested definitions of the digital humanities Exploring debates about the digital humanities within the emerging field Beginning to consider why the digital humanities matter beyond the academic field itself Through hands-on experimentation, trying out various types of digital humanities analysis using heterogeneous datasets, tools, and methods
Learning Outcome The student will have the ability to: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the main field of study and significant in-depth knowledge in some subcategories of the digital humanities Analyze, assess, and manage complex phenomena, questions, and situations related to the digital humanities as a field of study and work Describe the prospects and limitations of science and technology in digital humanities, their role in society, and the individual’s responsibility for how they are used
Courses Foundations of Digital Humanities AI for Digital Humanities Principles of Digital Economics Seminar in Digital Humanities Programming Techniques Data Structures and Algorithms Civilizations, Cultures, and Technologies Perspectives in Language and Literary Studies Research Methods in Digital Humanities Archiving and Databases Place and Identity in the Digital Age Social Media Application Development New Media Studies Introduction to Cultural Studies Social Network Analysis Digital Cinema Digital Storytelling Human Factors in Interaction Design Introduction to Typography Consumer Culture and Commodities Special Topics in DH Introduction to Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality Sociology of Science and Technology Gender and Society Cine Politics under the National Emergency Art, Aesthetics and the Public Climate Change and Society Sociocultural Theories
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Feb 2026 - 10:22 AM