About Digital Infrastructure & Automation | Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DIA) | IIT Jodhpur
About Digital Infrastructure & Automation
The Computer Center of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Jodhpur stands as a testament to the institution’s commitment to cutting-edge research, innovation, and technological development. As a pivotal hub for computing and information technology, the Computer Center has played a crucial role in shaping the academic landscape and the advancement of the institute. Since its inception, the Computer Center has undergone remarkable development and growth, aligning itself with advancements in the field of computing. Equipped with state-of-the-art infrastructure and a team of highly skilled professionals, the center has fostered an environment conducive to research and learning.
The Computer Center hosts a modern data center that is capable of hosting more than forty 42U server racks. That is, the data center has ample capacity to accommodate future growth and expansion. The data center is equipped with precision cooling systems that ensure optimal performance and reliability, and redundant power backups that guarantee uninterrupted operations. The data center already houses an array of virtualization clusters, which are used for all automation (ERP, eOffice, etc.) needs at the institute. This cluster is powered by seven modern servers and a 250 TB storage system.
The Computer Center serves as an epicenter for academic and technical training programs. It enables its faculties to offer workshops, seminars, and training sessions on different technologies and tools. Further, the Computer Center engages students of IIT Jodhpur in challenging hands-on projects that provide exposure to different modern technologies at the data center. Through this initiative, the Computer Center established its OpenStack cluster and data center monitoring and tracking system. These initiatives not only enhance the knowledge and skills of students but also promote innovation.
In terms of its current status, the Computer Center of IIT Jodhpur continues to evolve and adapt to the changing technological landscape. It developed infrastructure to remain at the forefront of research and development, addressing challenges in areas such as artificial intelligence, data science, cybersecurity, and high-performance computing. Furthermore, the center places a strong emphasis on open-source software and promotes its usage across the institute. It encourages students and faculty members to use and contribute to the open-source community, fostering a culture of sharing and collaboration. The future vision for the Computer Center of IIT Jodhpur is to enhance its capabilities, such as upgradation of HPC and new software, are under procurement.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Mar 2026 - 03:16 PM