Electrical Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome to the Department of Electrical Engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering primarily focuses on imparting quality education and preparing students to face future technological challenges. The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic and human resource development. The Department is committed to engage in high-quality research by Faculty Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence in teaching.
The Department offers B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering with broad range of major and minor specializations and three state-of-the-art M.Tech. programs in Sensors and Internet of Things (SIoT), Cyber Physical Systems (CPS), and Intelligent Communication Systems (ICS).
The Department also runs dual degree (M.Tech. + Ph.D.) programs in Intelligent Communication Systems, Sensors and Internet of Things (SIoT) and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS) as well as Ph.D. program with a broad range of specializations covering detailed aspects of Microelectronics, Signal Processing, Communication, Microwave & Photonics, Power systems, Control systems etc. The Department is also starting a new Executive MTech Program in Intelligent VLSI Systems (for working professionals) from July 2022.
The prospective undergraduate and postgraduate students are encouraged to visit the Academic Programs (UG Program, PG Programs and Doctoral Programs) page of the Department to know more about the details of courses offered in the department.
To know more about the current research themes of the faculty members, the prospective students are encouraged to visit the Research Overview page of the Department. Technology Tracks currently pursued by the Department include emerging and challenging fields that culminate at the intersection of several traditional research areas.
Current Technology Tracks
Active collaboration is on-going with organizations like Freescale Semiconductors, Global Foundries, AIIMS Jodhpur, DST, DRDO, and ISRO, to name a few. The Department has been attracting various sponsored projects from R&D organizations since its inception. Consolidated (year-wise) cutoffs of last four years  (  Download file: 342 KB)
View all highlights
Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Associate Professor in Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur published a manuscript in the Chemical Engineering Journal (Impact Factor = 13)
Ph.D. student Mr. Prabhanshu Yadav won the Best Paper Award in IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications Systems
Dr. Akshay Moudgil Awarded Teaching Excellence Award
View all news
Result of Ph.D. Admissions AY 2025-26 Semester II
Consolidated (year-wise) cutoffs of last four years
List of candidates shortlisted for Ph.D. Admission, 2nd round, AY 2025-26, Semester-I
View all events
Skill Development Program on MATLAB/Simulink and Software-Defined Radio (SDR)...
Skill Development Program on MATLAB/Simulink and Software-Defined Radio (SDR)-Based Communication Systems Design (21st - 24th December 2025)
VLSI Test Workshop : The program is intended for the Faculty, UG, and PG students, research scholars, practicing engineers, and people from R & D in the field of VLSI Design.
Expert Talk by Prof. H.M. Gupta on: Evolution of ICTs: Historical and Indian Context
Invited Talk by Mr. Tapas Nandy: Cycle of Inter-chip Communication: Past-Present-Future
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 13 Mar 2026 - 03:28 PM