Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery | Mechanical Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery
Fluid mechanics lab aims to provide hands-on exposure to students on various experimental flow measurement techniques. Students are introduced with the experimental flow prediction of a wide range of practical problems such as frictional flow through pipes, prediction of various aerodynamic coefficients over subsonic airfoils, wake flows, jet flows, turbulent flows in pipe etc. The laboratory also aims to provide a practical feel on the different fluid dynamic concepts involved in the measurement of various flow field parameters like velocity, pressure, flow rate etc. The various facilities available at the institute Fluid Mechanics lab are as follows: Subsonic Wind Tunnel Pipe Friction Apparatus Reynolds Apparatus PIV simulator Various Flow Measurement devices The turbomachines lab introduce students with various hydraulic turbomachines and their operational characteristics. The lab consists of test rigs for various hydraulic turbines and centrifugal pump. The miniature turbomachine units are mounted on a test bench with closed water circuit. A transparent cover provides a direct view of the turbomachine in operation and thus clearly illustrates the interaction of guide apparatus, water flow and runner. The test rigs are equipped with a volume flow meter, pressure sensors at the inlet and outlet pipes, tachometer and brake drum dynamometer which can be used to measure the input power, runner speed and torque and are shown using electronic display boards. Characteristics curves and performance curves for various hydraulic machines at various speeds can thus be evaluated. The various facilities available at the institute Turbomachines lab are as follows: Pelton Turbine (Impulse hydraulic turbine) Francis Turbine (Reaction hydraulic turbine) Centrifugal Pump
Fluid Mechanics and Turbomachinery Equipment images
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:34 PM