Applicant's Qualifications | Faculty Positions | IIT Jodhpur
(a) Professor Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout from Class X.
At least a minimum of 10 years teaching, research and/or industrial experience, of which at least 4 years should be at the level of Associate Professor in IITs, IISc, IIMs, NITIE Mumbai and IISERs or at an equivalent level in any such other Indian or Foreign Institute or University.
(b) Associate Professor
Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout from Class X.
At least a minimum of 6 years teaching, research and/or industrial experience, of which at least 3 years should be at the level of Assistant Professor in a reputed Institute or University.
(c) Assistant Professor
Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout from Class X.
At least a minimum of 3 years teaching, research and/or industrial experience, from the date of defending the Ph.D. Thesis (experience while pursuing Ph.D. Program is not be included). Applicants having no or less than 3 years Post-Ph.D. experience will be considered for a contractual appointment of duration less than or equal to 3 years which can be converted into regular position upon review of performance during contract period.
The prescribed essential qualifications and experience indicated are bare minimum, and mere possession of the same will not entitle the applicants to be called for interview. Where the number of applications received in response to an advertisement is large, it may not be convenient and/or possible for the Institute to conduct interview for all the applicants. In such cases, the Institute may restrict the number of applicants to be called for interview to a reasonable limit, on the basis of qualification and experience higher than that of the minimum prescribed in the advertisement. Therefore applicants should furnish details of all the qualifications and experience possessed in the relevant field, over and above (if any) the minimum qualification prescribed along with documentary evidences.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 09 Mar 2026 - 04:15 PM