STI HUB REPORT
Centre for emerging Technologies
for Sustainable Development
The  Science  Technology  and  Innovation  (STI)  Hub  of  IIT
Jodhpur  has  started  creating  impactful  changes  in  the
overall  quality  of  life  of  the  Scheduled  Caste  (SC)
communities  located  in  the  Thar  Desert  region  of  India.
The  project  has  been  running  in  5  districts  of  North-
Western  Rajasthan  namely  Barmer,  Bikaner,  Jaisalmer,
Jodhpur, and Nagaur.
STI  focuses  on  empowering  the  most  vulnerable  and
marginalized  sections  of  the  society.  Initiatives  include
opportunities,  ensuring  nutritional
homesteading  by  low-cost  ceramic  irrigation  systems,
improving the availability of clean drinking water using g-
filters, and proper management of animal dung.
Creating  a  market  ecosystem  at  the  village  level  where
local communities make products for local consumption
promoting a circular economy while enhancing the living
standards  of  local  artisans  has  been  envisioned  by  the
STI  project.  The  project  has  helped  to  bring  financial
empowerment to women from these locations by making
them  microentrepreneurs.  STI  has  made  significant
empowerment of women.
in  achieving  conservation  of
Training Beneficiaries: 890
Equipment Beneficiaries: 99
No of clusters: 7
Clusters: Bhawad, Mokalawas,
Shobasar, Bharukhira, Gomat,
STI project attempted to integrate simple yet effective technologies at the
level  of  making  ropes  and  associated  rope  artifacts.  These  mechanized
equipment  included  manual  and  electronic  ratts  reduced  the  drudgery  of
making ropes. They work effectively with local fibers as well as cloth fibers
which can be later converted to value added products. Machineries coupled
with  new  design  interventions  catering  to  the  local  and  regional  market
helped to attract the beneficiaries towards adopting the project.
The beneficiaries are engaging into natural fiber resource management and
creation of value added products through local fibers now. Conserving and
reviving  the  indigenous  epistemologies  while  generating  a  livelihood  has
been  initiated  through  the  project.  This  also  helps  in  achieving  targets  of
goal  8  on  decent  work  and  economic  growth  and  indirectly  contributes  to
goals 1,2 and 3 of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Besides,
the  work  of  STI  hub  is  also  in  par  with  the  targets  of  national  schemes  like
Pradhan  Mantri  Anusuchit  Jaati  Abhuyday  Yojana  [PM-AJAY]  focused  on
poverty reduction and social empowerment of SC communities.
Reduced plastic waste
Nutritious medium for plant growth
Part of conservation agriculture
G-FILTERS and UF-FILTERS
Training Beneficiaries: 6
Equipment Beneficiaries: 102
No of clusters: 5
Clusters: Banad, Nandiya
Kallan, Gomat, Harsani, Nagri
UF filters has been installed at
three schools with large
population students fromof
This is a step towards
achieving the targets of Jal
STI project has provided
machines and training to
manufacture ceramic G-
filters for potter
communities in clusters.
G-filters is an effective
filtration system that
can be made locally.
STI’s intervention using
g-filters helps in
achieving targets 6.1, 6.7
and 6.8 of goal 6 on
clean water and
sanitation of UN SDGs.
SUB-SURFACE POROUS VESSELS
Training Beneficiaries: 4 clusters +
15 ceramic pipe training
Equipment Beneficiaries: 4 clusters
No of clusters: 5
Clusters: Banad, Nandiya Kallan,
Gomat, Harsani, Nagri
SSPVs  and  g-filters  are  made  using  the  same  machine  and  the  only
difference comes in the ratio of raw materials.
Sub-surface  porous  vessel  technology  is  a  frustum  shaped  ceramic
vessel  and  irrigation  system  ideal  for  arid  regions.  It  shows  high
water  application  efficiency  and  retains  soil  moisture  for  a  longer
duration.  Besides,  water  is  applied  and  restricted  to  the  root  zone
and  hence  there  is  no  evaporation  loss.  Another  advantage  is  zero
operational energy required for operating the device.
The  use  of  SSPV  in  irrigation  caters  to  the  target  of  water  use
efficiency  and  nutrient  management  asserted  by  the  National
Mission  for  Sustainable  Agriculture  scheme.  In  arid  regions  like
intake  among  the  villagers  through  homesteading
activities.  This  would  also  contribute  to  afforestation  in  desert
regions due to high efficiency of irrigation and low evaporation loss.
it  directly  contributes  to
At  STI,  we  have  given  training  for  both  SSPV  and  g-filters  in  all  the
clusters. Training for SSPV based ceramic pipes and drainage system
was also provided at IIT Jodhpur campus.
ANIMAL DUNG MANAGEMENT
STI  undertook  an  unique  approach  to  revive  traditional
construction  of  hut  by  mixing  equs  dung  and  trained
beneficiaries  in  the  process.  The  new  STI  office  and
workspace  is  a  completely  sustainable  and  is  an  good
example  towards  construction  using  solid  waste,  equs
dung and natural fibers. This is in support of the schemes
on waste to wealth mission.
STI BENEFICIARY LOCATIONS
STI Project has reached multiple
villages in all the five target districts.
The district wise classification of
villages under STI is given in Fig 1.
Fig 1: Distribution of villages of  STI
Fig 2 depicts the number
of training sessions
conducted per vertical in
different target districts.
Arna Jharna - Jodhpur
Nandiya Kallan - Jodhpur
Gomat - Jaisalmer
Nagri - Nagaur
Korna - Barmer
Bharukhira - Bikaner
Fig 2: Training session of different verticals
Gomat - Jaisalmer
Shobasar - Bikaner
Bhawad - Jodhpur
Bharukhira - Bikaner
Korna - Barmer
Invited to showcase STI work at Shilp Samagam Mela
organized by Ministry of Social Justice and
Participated and acted as a platform to sell the
products made by 2 all women STI clusters namely
Bhawad and Mokalawas and Banar cluster. Also
helped our local seller Ajju nursery in sales of natural
fiber based nursery pouches.
Received sales of more than INR 11000 in 9 days.
Participated in Industry day at IIT
Jodhpur and received first prize on
project demostration for the theme
‘Technologies for Sustainability’.
GLIMPSE into TRAINING SESSIONS
GLIMPSE into TRAINING SESSIONS
GLIMPSE into TRAINING SESSIONS
GLIMPSE into TRAINING SESSIONS
GLIMPSE into TRAINING SESSIONS
GLIMPSE into TRAINING SESSIONS
GLIMPSE into TRAINING SESSIONS
Expertise in local travel and
Conducted  24  training sessions
Expert in Calotropis procera
Conducted  12 training sessions
Expertise in training and
Conducted 8 training sessions
Expert in coir fiber
Conducted  22  training sessions
Expert in coir fiber
Conducted 24  training
Project finance, coordinator
UBA RCI Manager
Project Management and
Documentation & Report
Details of the Beneficiaries
STI HUB IIT JODHPUR- BENEFICIARY LIST 2023-24
Jobar Ram Jayarup Ram
Dharma Ram Naru Ram
Pintu Ram (H)
Nandiya Kalyan Mahender
Nandiya Kalyan Mahender
Nandiya Kalyan Sundar Devi
Harudi Devi Narsingha Ram
Narsingh Ram Chokha Ram
Shiv Raj Ram
Usha Parihar Pukhraj Parihar
Pooja Parihar Deepak Parihar
Prema Ram Chandra Ram
Radha Devi Narsingha Ram
Amandeep Kaur Vikram Singh
Paramjeet Kaur Gurmel Singh
Bharukhira Manpreet Kaur
Bharupawa Mandeep KOur Malkit Kour
Bharupawa Chota Meghwal
Bharupawa Charanjeet Kaur
Chenna Ram Ghewar Ram
Chanchal Devi  Durga ram
Hadman Ram Junger Ram
Abhishek Devi Bhawani Singh
Lakshman Ram Kisna Ram
Chutra Ram Narayan Ram
Buddha Ram Gorakh Ram
Dunger Ram Prabhu Ram
Laxman Ram Bhanwar lal
WATER FILTRATION SYSTEMS
Kailash Ram BUDHA RAM
Goardhan Ram Resha Ram
Chanana RAm Kishna Ram
Pema Ram Magna Ram
Umeda Ram Multana Ram
Dhapu Devi sharwan Ram
MODIFIED AGRICULTURAL SYSTEMS
Prema Ram Narpat Megwal
Jainarayan Ram Pawan Chaohan
EQUS DUNG MANAGEMENT