Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MINUTES OF 41st MEETING
27 November 2025 (Thursday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 41st Meeting
27th November 2025 (Thursday), 2:00 P.M.
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present at the 41st Meeting of the Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur:
1.   Sh. A. S. Kiran Kumar, Former Chairman, ISRO
2.   Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal, Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.   Prof. Akhil Ranjan Garg, Vice-Chancellor, BTU, Bikaner
4.   Prof. (Retd.) Narpat S. Shekhawat, JNVU, Jodhpur
5.   Prof. Meenu Chhabra, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengineering, IITJ  Member
6.   Prof. Neeraj Jain, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengineering, IITJ
7.   Prof. Bhabani K. Satapathy, Deputy Director, IITJ
8.   Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Advisor to the Director, IITJ
9.   Dr. Ankur Gupta, Offg. Registrar, IITJ
The Joint Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education, Govt. of India, Member, BoG issued comments vide letter
F.No.12-9/2018-TS-I dated 12.12.2025.
The following members could not attend the meeting:
1.  Chief Secretary, Government of Rajasthan, Member, BoG.
2.  Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, Member, BoG.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the Agenda items:
41.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS (BoG)
At the outset, Dr. Ankur Gupta, Offg. Registrar welcomed Chairman and Members
of  the  Board  of  Governors  to  the  41st  BoG  Meeting.  Further,  he  requested  the
Chairman, BoG to kindly make his opening remarks.
In his opening remarks, the Chairman, BoG expressed  that IIT Jodhpur is doing
very well on all fronts. He complimented Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal, Director,
IIT  Jodhpur  and  Team  IIT  Jodhpur  for  their  outstanding  efforts  towards  overall
development of the Institute, particularly during the past one & half years. All the
members of BoG echoed the views expressed by the Chairman, BoG. The Chairman
specifically  commended  the  efforts  by  the  Institute  to  optimize  its  financial
resources, which led to rationalization of Institute expenses.
Then, the Chairman, BoG called the meeting to order.
To confirm the Minutes of the 40th Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 25th June 2025 in the Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  of  Governors  confirmed  the  Minutes  of  40th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of
Governors held on 25th June 2025, as circulated.
41.2  Presentation of the Institute Report by the Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal, Director, IIT Jodhpur, presented a comprehensive
report  stating  the  progress  on  all  fronts  and  highlighted  the  major  academic
reforms,  institutional  achievements,  administrative  progress,  new  national  and
international partnerships etc. since last meeting of the Board of Governors.
41.2.1  Not for public domain.
41.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
41.3.1  Not for public domain.
41.3.2  To consider and approve:
(i)  Separate  Audit  Report  (SAR)  with  Audit  Certificate  on  the  Annual
Accounts for FY 2024-25 of the Institute
(ii) Annual Report of the IIT Jodhpur for FY 2024-25
(i)  Separate  Audit  Report  (SAR)  with  Audit  Certificate  on  the  Annual
Accounts for FY 2024-25 of the Institute
The  Board  was  briefed  that  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee in its 35th Meeting held on 25th June 2025, the Annual Accounts
for the Financial Year 2024-25 was presented to the Board of Governors for
their approval. After getting approval from the Board of Governors in its 40th
Meeting  held  on  25th  June  2025,  the  Institute  submitted  the  same  to  the
Office of CAG Branch: Jaipur for commencement of the Audit. The Office of
CAG  deputed  a  team  from  11th  August  2025  to  22nd  August  2025  to
undertake the Audit of the Annual Accounts of the Institute for the Financial
Year 2024-25. The Institute received the Draft Separate Audit Report (SAR)
on 7th October 2025 (by email) and replies to the draft SAR were submitted
vide Letter No. IITJ/F&A/2025-26/24 dated 13th October 2025 to the Office
Further, the Board of Governors was apprised that the Finance Committee
in its 36th meeting held on 26th November 2025 noted that the Final Separate
Audit Report (SAR) on Annual Accounts of the Institute for FY 2024-25 and
Certified Annual Accounts have not yet been received from the Office of CAG.
The  Finance  Committee  discussed  minor  observations  by  the  CAG  and
expressed  satisfaction  on  the  overall  report.  The  Finance  Committee
authorized  the  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors/  Finance  Committee  for
adoption of the Final Separate Audit Report (SAR) on Annual Accounts for
the FY 2024-25.
On the recommendation of the Finance Committee, the Board of Governors
authorized the Chairman, BoG to accord approval on  adoption of the Final
Separate Audit Report (SAR) on Annual Accounts for the FY 2024-25 so that
the  same  can  be  submitted  to  the  Ministry  of  Education  for  laying  on  the
table  of  both  houses  of  the  Parliament  within  time  limit  prescribed  by  the
(ii)  Annual Report of the IIT Jodhpur for FY 2024-25
The  Annual  Report  of  the  Institute  for  FY  2024-25  was  tabled  during  the
meeting.  The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  Annual  Report  and
approved  the  same.  Further,  the  Board  suggested  the  Institute  to  submit
both English and Hindi Versions to the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India
for laying on the table of both houses of the Parliament.
41.3.3  To nominate member on the Finance Committee of IIT Jodhpur as per the
provisions of the Statutes of Institute
As per the Clause 7(1)(C) of the Statutes of the Institute, the Board of Governors
approved  the  nomination  of  Sh.  Sharad  Kumar  Saraf,  Chairman,  Board  of
Governors, IIT Jammu and Chairman & Managing Director, Technocraft Industries
(India) Limited, Mumbai as Member, Finance Committee of IIT Jodhpur in place of
Sh. Ashoke Guha.
The Board of Governors placed on record the contribution of outgoing member, Sh.
Ashoke Guha, as a Member, Finance Committee, IIT Jodhpur.
41.3.4  To  consider  and  approve  the  re-constitution  of  the  Building  &  Works
Committee, IIT Jodhpur
As per Clause 8(1) of the Statutes of the Institute, the Board of Governors approved
the re-constitution of the Building & Works Committee (B&WC), IIT Jodhpur.
The following new members have been inducted in the B&WC:
1.  Prof. Gaurav Shrivastava, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Gandhinagar
2.  Sh. Pushpendra Singh Chauhan, Special Director General (Retd.), CPWD
3.  Sh. Sunil Kapoor, Former Superintending Engineer, IIT Mandi
The Board of Governors placed on record the contributions of outgoing members,
Professor  Neeraj  Gupta,  Head  &  Dean  Department  of  Architecture,  Central
University  of  Rajasthan,  Professor  B.  Bhattacharjee,  Emeritus  Professor,
Department  of  Civil  Engineering,  IIT  Delhi  and  Sh.  Anil  Kumar  Jain,  Special  DG
(Retd.),  CPWD  as  Members,  B&WC,  IIT  Jodhpur  towards  the  development  of
infrastructure in the Institute.
41.3.5  Not for public domain.
Not for public domain .
To  consider  and  approve  to  withdraw  the  scheme  for  Top  Twenty  JEE
Rankers joining IIT Jodhpur, provided their AIR (UR) is higher than 3000
The Board of Governors was apprised that the existing scheme of giving laptops to
top 20 JEE Rankers joining IIT Jodhpur was approved in the year of 2019, and it is
felt  to  review  the  same  as  it  did  not  serve  the  purpose  to  the  extent  it  was
anticipated while launching the scheme. Therefore, it is proposed to withdraw this
The Board of Governors approved to withdraw the scheme for giving laptops to Top
Twenty  JEE  Rankers  joining  IIT  Jodhpur,  provided  their  AIR  (UR)  is  higher  than
Not for public domain.
41.3.9  To  consider  and  approve  the  proposal  towards  discontinuation  of
for  Candidates  Appearing
Recruitment Examinations/Interview at the Institute
The Board of Governors was briefed that in accordance with the provisions of the
Statutes of the IIT Jodhpur, Point No. 17 (14)  “Candidates selected for interview
for a post under the Institute may be paid such travelling allowances  as may be
determined by the Board from time to time in this behalf.”, and the Recruitment
and  Promotion  Rules  –  2021,  states  “TA  reimbursement  will  be  made  for  person
attending the Written Test and Trade Test for Group B & C posts and for persons
attending the Interview (in person) for Group A.” the Institute currently provides
Travelling  Allowance  to  Outstation  applicants  who  are  called  for  tests  and
subsequently  qualify  for  the  final  stage  of  the  selection  process  (i.e.,  skill
test/interview). Such candidates are eligible for reimbursement of travel expenses
for  the  journey  from  their  Correspondence  Address  to  Jodhpur  and  back  by  the
The BoG was further briefed that the Institute has received an exceptionally large
volume  of  applications  for  the  Non-Teaching  Recruitment  Positions  advertised
against Advt. No. IITJ/O(E-II)/2024-25/Non-Academic Staff/57 dated 8 April 2024,
amounting to a total of 20,906 applications. Processing Travelling Allowance claims
for outstation candidates in such high numbers will impose a substantial financial
burden on the Institute. Additionally, the scrutiny and settlement of a large number
of TA claims is a time-consuming exercise and requires considerable administrative
manpower, which is currently constrained. This situation is expected to prevail in
future recruitment cycles for the Non-Faculty recruitments. Therefore, the Institute
is proposing to discontinue Travelling Allowance for Candidates Appearing for Non-
Faculty Recruitment Examinations/Interview at the Institute.
After detailed deliberations, the Board of Governors approved the proposal towards
discontinuation  of  Travelling  Allowance  for  Candidates  Appearing  for  Non-Faculty
Recruitment Examinations/Interview at the Institute.
41.3.10  Not for public domain.
Not for public domain.
41.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING, AND NOTING ITEMS
Not for public domain  .
41.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
Not for public domain.
In  his  concluding  remarks,  the  Chairman  highly  appreciated  and  lauded  the  efforts  and
leadership of the Director, IIT Jodhpur and the top leadership team of the Institute for the overall
fast-paced development of the Institute.
The Meeting concluded with thanks to the Chair, Members and Special Invitees of the BoG.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur