Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MINUTES OF 39th MEETING
11th March 2025 (Tuesday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 39th Meeting
11th March 2025 (Tuesday), 09:30 A.M.
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The  following  Members  were  present  /  issued  comments  in  the  39th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of
1.    Sh. A. S. Kiran Kumar, Former Chairman, ISRO
2.    Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal, Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.    Smt. Saumya Gupta, IAS, Joint Secretary (Technical Education)
Ministry of Education, Govt. of India
4.    Prof. Akhil Ranjan Garg, MBM University, Jodhpur
5.    Prof. (Retd.) Narpat S. Shekhawat, JNVU, Jodhpur
6.    Prof. Neeraj Jain, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengg., IITJ
7.    Prof. Meenu Chhabra, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengg., IITJ
8.    Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Advisor to the Director, IITJ
9.    Prof.  Bhabani  K.  Satapathy,  Department  of  Metallurgical  and
Materials Engineering, IITJ
10.   Dr. Ankur Gupta, Offg. Registrar
The  Chief  Secretary,  Government  of  Rajasthan,  Member,  BoG  could  not  attend  the  Meeting.  Sh.  Anil
Bhavarlal Jain, Member, BoG did not attend the Meeting.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the Agenda items:
39.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS (BoG)
At  the  outset,  Dr.  Ankur  Gupta,  Officiating  Registrar  welcomed Chairman
and  Members  of  the  Board  of  Governors.  Then,  he  requested  the
Chairman, BoG to kindly deliver his opening remarks.
The Chairman, Board of Governors welcomed the Members of the Board of
Governors especially Prof. Meenu Chhabra, Department of Bioscience and
Bioengineering, who was attending the BoG meeting as Senate Nominee,
for the first time.
The  Chairman  welcomed  Dr.  Ankur  Gupta,  Associate  Professor,
Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering,  who  was  attending  the  meeting,
as  Officiating  Registrar,  for  the  first  time.  Chairman  also  welcomed
Prof.  Bhabani  K.  Satapathy,  Department  of  Metallurgical  and  Materials
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur who was attending meeting, as a Special Invitee.
The Board of Governors also placed on record thanks to Prof. Richa Singh,
Outgoing  Member,  BoG  as  Senate  Nominee  and  Dr.  Hari  Om  Yadav,
Outgoing Registrar, for their contributions. Then, the Chairman called the
meeting to order.
Thereafter,  the  Director  briefed  to  the  Board  of  Governors  about  the  sad
demise of Dr. R. Chidambaram, former Chairman, BoG, IIT Jodhpur.
Then, the Director read the following Condolence Message:
“IIT  Jodhpur,  on  behalf  of  the  Board  of  Governors,  Finance  Committee,
Director,  Faculty  Members,  Staff  Members,  and  Students,  deeply  mourn  the
sad demise of Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT
Jodhpur, who breathed his last on 4th January 2025. Dr. R. Chidambaram was
the Chairman of BoG, IIT Jodhpur, from 2nd July 2018 to 21st August 2023.
Dr.  R.  Chidambaram  was  one  of  the  architects  of  India’s  Nuclear  Programme
and  played  a  key  role  in  India’s  nuclear  tests.  He  will  be  remembered  with
great respect by the Nation, and his efforts will inspire generations to come.
Dr.  Chidambaram  served  as  the  2nd  Principal  Scientific  Adviser  (PSA)  to  the
Government of India for ~17 Years, Director, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre
(BARC),  Chairman,  Atomic  Energy  Commission  of  the  Government  of  India,
and  many  key  positions  throughout  his  inspiring  career.  He  was  conferred
Padma  Shri  and  Padma  Vibhushan  in  1975  and  1999,  respectively,  by  the
entrepreneurship,  motivation  for  youth,  humility,  and  sense  of  humour
impressed everyone who interacted with him.
for  Science  &  Technology,
India.  His  passion
IIT  Jodhpur  is  blessed  to  have  the  leadership,  guidance,  and  wisdom  of  Dr.
Chidambaram as the Chairman of BoG. His contributions are unmatchable and
IIT Jodhpur will always remain grateful for his contributions for overall growth
of the Institute.
IIT  Jodhpur  extends  heartfelt  condolences  to  his  family  and  loved  ones  and
pray for the eternal peace of the departed soul and courage & fortitude to the
bereaved family to bear this irreparable loss.
The  BoG  also  observed  2  Minutes  silence  to  pay  homage  to
Late Dr. R. Chidambaram, former Chairman, BoG, IIT Jodhpur.
To  confirm  the  Minutes  of  the  38th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of
Governors  held  on  25th  October  2024  in  the  Board  Room,  IIT
The  Board  of  Governors  confirmed  the  Minutes  of  38th  Meeting  of  the
Board of Governors held on 25th October 2024, as circulated.
39.2  Presentation of the Institute Report by the Director, IIT Jodhpur
Professor  Avinash  Kumar  Agarwal,  Director,  IIT  Jodhpur,  presented  the
Institute  Report,  highlighting  key  developments,
achievements since the last meeting of the Board of Governors held on 25
October  2024.  The  report  covered  various  aspects,  including  new
academic initiatives, faculty recruitment status, research and development
international  collaborations,  corporate  engagements,  and
student affairs along with major initiatives related to campus development
39.2.1  Not for public domain.
39.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
39.3.1  Not for public domain.
39.3.2  To consider & approve the recommendations of the Senate made in
its 40th Meeting held on 6th and 7th March 2025 at IIT Jodhpur:
Creation of Medical Technology Center (MedTech Centre)
(ii)  Other recommendations of the Senate
(i)  Creation of Medical Technology Center (MedTech Centre)
Prof. Sushmita Jha, Coordinator, IITJ-AIIMSJ Med.Tech. Centre presented
the proposal of the creation of MedTech Centre at IIT Jodhpur before the
Board  of  Governors.  Prof.  Jha  briefed  the  BoG  that  MedTech  Centre  will
catalyse  multi-disciplinary  collaborations  and  the  Development  of  Need-
based  Cutting-edge  Technologies.  Prof.  Jha  apprised  the  following
objectives envisioned for the proposed Centre:
●  To run Joint Programs in Medical Technologies (IIT J and AIIMS J),
offering Masters, Masters-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Ph.D. Programs.
●  To offer Programs in Digital Health.
●  To offer Short-Term / Executive Education Courses in broad areas
of  Medical  Technologies,
●  To  offer
ideation-to-prototyping  services  that  will
Consulting/ Handholding/ end-to-end service to Industry.
●  To  offer  IP  and  Medical  Technology  regulatory  framework
●  To offer Clinical Trial services.
●  To  set  up  a  prototype  production/manufacturing  facility  for
●  The  Center  will  broadly  focus  on  solving  significant  healthcare
entrepreneurship. It will generate high-end facilities which will aid
Medical Technology innovations for efficient patient management.
Prof. Jha briefed the BoG that the Medical Technologies Program, initiated
in collaboration with AIIMS Jodhpur in 2020, has grown significantly over
the  years.  In  March  2024,  the  Senate,  IIT  Jodhpur  approved  the
formation  of  the  MedTech  Centre  under  the  Interdisciplinary  Research
Division (IDRD) of the institute.
the  rapid  advancements
The  proposal  emphasizes
innovations  but  also  highlights  the  challenges  of  improving  access,
efficiency,  and  cost  in  healthcare  systems.  India’s  unique  healthcare
needs,  shaped  by  urban-rural  divides,  the  transition  from  communicable
to  non-communicable  diseases,  and  increasing  life  expectancy,  require
medical technologies that are better suited to local needs.
The proposal points out the limitations of adapting technologies designed
for  developed  countries  to  the  diverse  needs  of  Indian  patients,  and  the
importance  of  considering  factors  like  genetic  profiles,  climate,  and
culture.  However,  the  proposal  also  stresses  the  opportunities  arising
from  scientific  discoveries,  technological  advancements,  and  global
connectivity to develop innovative healthcare solutions.
To  address  these  challenges,  the  MedTech  Centre  would  foster  multi-
disciplinary  collaborations  between  professionals
engineering,  entrepreneurship,  and  business,  aiming  to  develop  need-
IIT  Jodhpur  has
recommended the proposal for approval by the Board of Governors (BoG).
technologies.  The  Senate,
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  initiative  and  suggested  that
Institute  should  ensure  the  seed  funding  for  establishing  of  the  Centre
and  work  out  a  future  plan  for  its  long-term  sustainability.  The  Board
approved the creation of Med-Tech Centre.
(ii)  Other recommendations of the Senate
The  Minutes  of  the  40th  Meeting  held  on  6-7  March  2025  were  placed
before  the  Board  of  Governors.  Prof.  Atul  Kumar,  Dean  of  Academic
Affairs  (DOAA)  presented  the  summary  of  the  points  discussed  in  the
Senate before the BoG.
The following recommendations of the Senate were approved by the BoG:
1.  Proposal  for  the establishment  of  Manekshaw  Centre  of  Excellence
for  National  Security  Studies  and  Research  (MCOENSSR)  at  IIT
The  BoG  was  apprised  that  the  proposal  for  establishing  the Manekshaw
Centre  of  Excellence  for  National  Security  Studies  and  Research
(MCOENSSR),  with  IIT  Jodhpur  as  one  of  the  founding  Institutes  was
presented to the Senate in its 40th Meeting held on 6-7 March 2025. The
Senate considered and recommended the same to the BoG.
It  was  further  informed  that  MCOENSSR  is  envisioned  as  a Special
(SPV) fostering  collaboration  between  academia,
government,  and  industry  to  address  national  security  challenges  and
develop  a “Security
Industrial  Complex” under Atmanirbhar  Bharat.
Leading  institutions  such  as  IIT  Guwahati,  IIIT  Delhi,  IIT  Kanpur,  IIT
Jodhpur,  and  IIT  Dharwad,  along  with  the  Indian  tri-services,  will  drive
innovation in defence technology, each specializing in specific domains.
IIT Jodhpur will serve as the Centre of Excellence in Engine Design, UAVs
/ RPAs, and Directed Energy Weapons, providing infrastructure, expertise,
and  administrative  support.  The  institute  will  collaborate  with  others  to
identify critical research areas, share resources, and secure funding from
government and private sectors.
Key Focus Areas:
A.  Research & Development:
Innovation,  productization,  and  manufacturing  in  defence
•  Addressing  problem  statements  from  MoD,  DRDO,  ISRO,
CAPFs, and other security agencies.
•  Serving  as  a  single-window  interface  between  academia  and
the armed forces.
•  Collaborating with global institutes, startups, and industry for
higher technology readiness.
B.  Capacity Building:
•  Offering  specialized  courses  (Certificate/MDP/Master/Ph.D.)
for defence personnel under NEP.
•  Re-employment  programs  for  military  personnel  transitioning
•  Hosting  workshops,  ideathons,  and  an  annual  conference  on
national security and warfare strategies.
2.  To incentivize exceptional Ph.D. students submitting their thesis within
3  or  4  years  since  the  date  of  registration  with  an  enhanced
assistantship for the next six months
3.  Revised  norms  for  partial  financial  support  to  Ph.D.  students  for
attending and presenting their work in international conferences
4.  Implementation  of  Half  Time  Research  Assistantship  (HTRA)  for  an
additional  year  for  female  Ph.D.  Students  in  compliance  of  the  MoE
5.  Proposal  for  Endowment  Award  to  Support  Inbound  and  Outbound
The BoG noted the following items approved by the Senate:
1.  Proposal to restructure all M.Tech. and Ph.D. Programs of the institute
2.  Reforms in M.Tech. Programs
3.  Reforms in Ph.D. Programs
4.  A new M.Des. Program in Smart Product Design from School of Design
5.  A new M.Tech. Program in Bridge Engineering form the department of
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
6.  A new M.Tech. Program in Drones and anti-Drones Technologies from
the department of Mechanical Engineering
7.  Revised  publication  requirements  for  Ph.D.  students-  School  of
Management & Entrepreneurship
8.  Revised publication requirements for Ph.D. students- School of Liberal
9.  Revised guidelines for Branch-Change of B.Tech. students
10. Proposal to organize 11th Convocation of the Institute in the last week
of June 2025
11. Transfer  of  Ph.D.  Students  of  the  Regular  Faculty  Members  of  Other
Institutes Joining IIT Jodhpur
39.3.3  To  discuss  and  recommend  Honoris  Causa  Doctorate  to  Eminent
Personalities  for  their  exceptional  contributions  during  next
Convocation of the Institute
The  Board  of  Governors  was  briefed  that  the  Senate  in  its  40th  Meeting
held  on  6-7  March  2025  recommended  for  conferment  of  Honoris  Causa
contributions in their areas:
following  Eminent  Personalities
1.  Dr. Vijay Kumar Saraswat
Member, NITI Aayog,
Former Chancellor, Jawaharlal Nehru University
Padma Bhushan Awardee
2.  Dr. Ashutosh Sharma
Institute Chair Professor & C. V. Seshadri Chair Professor
Former Secretary, Department of Science & Technology, Govt. of India
Padma Shri Awardee
3.  Shri Vipin Sondhi
Chairperson,  National  Board  for  Quality  Promotion  at  the  Quality
Council of India
Chairperson of CII’s Council for Green Mobility
Former  Managing  Director  &  Chief  Executive  Officer,  Ashok  Leyland,
JCB India, and Tecumseh India
Board  of  Governors  considered  the  recommendations  of  the  Senate  and
recommended  it  for  submission  to  the  Visitor  (Hon’ble  President  of  India)
through Ministry of Education for approval.
39.3.4  Not for public domain.
39.3.5  Not for public domain.
Not for public domain.
Not for public domain.
Not for public domain.
39.3.9  To consider and approve the creation of IIT Jodhpur North America
Foundation, A Non-Profit Corporation
Prof.  Kaushalkumar  A.  Desai,  Dean  of  Resources  and  Alumni  presented
the  proposal  before  the  BoG.  Prof.  Desai briefed  that  IIT Jodhpur  Alumni
community established a North America Chapter for effective engagement
between  alumni  in  the  North  America  region  and  the  Institute  in  May
2022.  It  resulted  in  a  focused  alumni  network  actively  participating  in
networking events and discussion forums.
The  chapter  activities  are  proposed  to  be expanded  and  strengthened  by
creating  the  IIT  Jodhpur  North  America  Foundation.  The  purpose  of
setting  up  the  IIT  Jodhpur  North  America  Foundation  is  to  engage  and
support  students  /  alumni,  enhance  branding,  and  raise  funds  for  the
betterment of IIT Jodhpur. Similar foundations exist for other IITs and are
actively  working  towards  supporting  the  concerned  IIT,  its  students  and
alumni. The proposed Foundation will have a Board (with representatives
from  the  Institute)  to  refine  these  purposes  through  a  Board  Resolution,
provided the purpose remains exclusively in the context of education and
scientific purposes leading to the betterment of IIT Jodhpur and its alumni
worldwide.  The  Dean  of  Resources  and  Alumni  (DORA)  office  will  liaise
with  the  IITJ  North  America  Foundation  to  execute  these  purposes.  The
key  objective  of  the  Foundation  is  to  support  IITJ  in  achieving  its
aspiration  of  being  ranked  as  one  of  the  top  Institutes of  higher  learning
in  the  world.  The  Foundation  will  accomplish  the  same  by  the  following
•  Promoting Educational and Research activities of IITJ in the USA,
•  Creating  opportunities  for  scholarships  and  grants  for  student
education and research,
•  Supporting  collaboration  and  research  between  IITJ  faculty  and
students  and  educational  and  research  institutes  worldwide,
especially in the USA,
•  Assisting  faculty,  students,  and  alumni  of  IITJ  in  pursuing  their
professional goals in the USA through networking,
•  Supporting  visits  by  US  faculty  to  IITJ  for  teaching,  research,  or
•  Creating  funding  opportunities  such  as  donations,  bequests,  gifts,
and grants from alumni, associates, and benefactors, and
•  Creating a mechanism for utilizing funds received by the Foundation
for the benefit of IIT Jodhpur.
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the
39.3.10  To  consider  and  approve  the  creation  of  Additional  Endowment
Opportunities  for  receiving  Philanthropic,  Alumni  and  Corporate
Prof.  Kaushalkumar  A.  Desai,  Dean  of  Resources  and  Alumni  presented
briefed  to  the  BoG  that  the guidelines  for  setting  up  Endowed  Faculty
Chair,  Young  Faculty  Fellowship,  and  Endowed  Awards  for  Student
Excellence were  approved  by  the Board  of  Governors  (BoG)  in  its  37th
Meeting  held  on  29th  June  2024 and  subsequently  notified  through Office
Order  No.  IITJ/REG/2024-25/91  and  IITJ/REG/2024-25/92,  dated  1st
Building  upon  these  initiatives,  the Office  of  the  Dean  of  Resources  &
opportunities under three broad categories before the BoG:
1.  Endowment  Opportunities  for  Students –  Supporting conference
participation, entrepreneurship, summer internships, fellowships for
bright  students  (including  those  from  socially  backward  sections),
and donor-specific domains.
Entrepreneurship – Funding faculty entrepreneurship, young faculty
infrastructure, and donor-desired domains.
Infrastructure –  Offering naming  opportunities  for  academic  and
non-academic spaces to recognize donor contributions.
These endowment  opportunities  will  enable  alumni,  corporate  entities,
and philanthropists to contribute either for a fixed duration (minimum five
years) or through perpetual endowments, thereby expanding engagement
with  a  broader  donor  base  and  creating  additional  revenue  streams  for
the  Institute.  The  details  of  received  endowments  and  their  operational
plans will be presented to the BoG as they materialize.
After detailed deliberations, the BoG approved the proposal.
39.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING, AND NOTING ITEMS
Not for public domain.
39.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
Not for public domain.
39.6  Presentation  by  the  2  Faculty  Members  on  their  research  work
/accomplishments before the BoG
As  per  the  decision  of  the  BoG  taken  in  its  24th  Meeting  held  on
5.12.2020,  the  following  2  Faculty  Members  of  the  Institute  made
presentations before the BoG about their research work:
1.  Dr. Rajlaxmi Chouhan, Associate Professor, Department of Electrical
Engineering and Head, CETE, presented her work in the area of image
processing  and  education  technology.  She  explained  her  work  in  the
area  of  blended  learning  using  video-based  flipped  classroom,
gamification  and  game-based
learning,  assessment  strategies,
learning analytics, bilingual content creation and instructional design.
She  also  mentioned  that  the  video  content  created  by  her  is  freely
available  on  YouTube  channel  for  mass  consumption.  She  also
presented the journey and evolution of edtech at IIT Jodhpur from a
small group in 2020 to a full-fledged Center in 2022 that has started
academic  programs,  PhD  and  ITEP,  in  2023  and  2024,  respectively.
Dr.  Chouhan  also  presented  various  other  ongoing  activities  and
initiatives of  the CETE and the Institute towards NEP implementation
such  as  ITEP  curriculum  development,  multilingual  STEM  storybooks
(joint  CETE-SoD  initiative),  workshops,  training,  and  instructional
design  support,  teacher  training  programs,  NEP  outreach  to  state
universities,  and  the  learn-in-matribhasha  initiative  for  BTech  first
year.  The  Board  advised  to  incorporate  more  data  for  comparison  of
performance  of  students  from  the  previous  year  of  BTech  program.
The  presentation  concluded  with  a  brief  discussion  on  role  of
technology-enhanced learning and plans for growth of the CETE.
research  activities  with
2.  Dr. Jitendra Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Physics, IIT
Jodhpur  presented  his  ongoing
international  mega-science  project  Belle  II  at  KEK,  Japan.  The  IIT
Jodhpur has been officially part of the Belle II collaboration since June
2023.  During  his  presentation,  he  provided  insights  not  only  to  the
field of particle physics but also highlighted key unresolved questions
that the global scientific community is striving to answer in its pursuit
of uncovering the universe’s deepest secrets. He began by explaining
the  Belle  II  CDC  detector-related  activities  at  IITJ,  after  which  the
BoG Chair suggested also exploring the implementation of new ideas
and  approaches.  His  team  is  working  on  innovative  ideas  to  improve
detector  performance  and  will  explore  further  to  find  new  pathways,
as  suggested  during  the  meeting.  He  then  presented  a  physics
analysis  work  his  team  is  currently  working  on  in  collaboration  with
INFN  Italy  and  the  University  of  Hawaii,  USA.  The  BoG  Chairman
inquired  whether  these  projects  face  any  resource  limitations  at  IIT
Jodhpur  and  also  if  full  data  access  is  facilitated  through  Belle  II
collaboration.  Dr.  Jitendra  mentioned  computing  resources  as  one  of
the  limitations;  for  example,  methods  like  Deep  learning  in  complex
data environment of particle physics need high-performance CPU with
an  advanced  GPU.  These  resources  can  enhance  the  overall  project
execution efficiency and will also enable the testing of new ideas using
ML/AI.  Finally,  he  presented  his  theoretical  and  experimental  work
with  Prof.  Ashutosh  Alok’s  team,  highlighting  extraordinary  results
that  significantly  impacted  the  particle  physics  community.  The  work
gained  recognition,  leading  to  multiple  seminar  invitations  at  major
collaborations like CERN and KEK. Prof. Uma from IIT Bombay played
a  key  role  in  this  work  and  pushed  the  team  to  test  the  theory  with
experimental  data.  The  experimental  particle  physics  (e.g.,  at CERN)
community  appreciated  the  innovative  ideas  proposed  by  the  IIT
Jodhpur  team.  The  BoG  Chairman  asked  whether  any  objections  to
the  new  findings  were  raised  during  the  seminar.  Dr.  Jitendra
explained  that  the  seminar  proceeded  smoothly  and  concluded  with
open  questions  for  the  scientific  community  to  explore  in  the  future.
The BoG chairman and other members appreciated his research work
and  suggested  finding  areas  where  new  ideas  could  be  implemented
and  suggested  reporting  resource  limitations.  The  Director  also
discussed  plans  of  connecting  IIT  Jodhpur  with  CERN  as  well  as
setting  up  new  facilities  for  medical  technologies  based  on  particle
The Board of Governors appreciated the presentation of both the Faculty
Not for public domain.
After the conclusion of the Meeting of the BoG, the Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
thanked the Chairman, BoG, the Director, and the Members for their invaluable time
and critical inputs.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur