Services | Health Center | IIT Jodhpur
The Health Center offers a wide range of services, including:
Free medical facilities for Students and Free OPD at PHC
Free IPD at Empanelled hospitals for Regular Employees & their dependents
Healthcare services available at the PHC including Lab testing, OPD and Emergency are available for all visiting patients.
A 24×7 Emergency/Casualty Room is available for immediate medical attention.
Equipped with emergency medicines, ECG machine, defibrillator, and cardiac monitors.
Minor OT procedures and daycare admissions are facilitated.
If further management is required, the patient is referred to empanelled tertiary hospitals by the attending Medical Officers.
The on-campus AMRIT Pharmacy operates round-the-clock, dispensing prescribed medicines.
Medicines not available immediately are procured and provided at the earliest under 48 hours.
Laboratory is operational daily for routine investigations.
Laboratory services are available from 9:00 AM to 12:00 PM, supported by one of the empaneled Hospitals.
Patients requiring advanced or specialized treatment are referred to empaneled hospitals:
ASG Eye Hospital (Pal Link Road, and Paota)
Institute employees receive cashless treatment; students receive treatment at subsidized CGHS rates after referral by Medical Officers.
Health Education and Preventive Care
The PHC regularly organizes:
Health awareness and check-up camps
Blood donation drives
Thematic health clinics, e.g., Adolescent Health Clinic, Lifestyle Disease Management Clinic
The Health Center works closely with the Student Welfare Office and Hostel Management to monitor and ensure hygiene and food quality in hostel mess facilities.
In collaboration with Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, an AYUSH OPD is available twice a week.
Services include Ayurveda, Homeopathy, and Naturopathy consultations for holistic wellness.
A fully equipped physiotherapy room with a qualified physiotherapist is operational during working hours (except Sundays).
One ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) ambulance is available 24×7 for emergencies.
A BLS (Basic Life Support) ambulance is available 24×7 for emergencies.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 28 Jan 2026 - 10:26 AM