DSpace Repository :: Home
Photo by @SRRLH
Communities in IITJ TR Select a community to browse its collections. Now showing 1 - 1 of 1 Theses   174 Recent Submissions No Thumbnail Available Publication Local and Nonlocal Symmetry Analysis on Complex Flow Problems ( Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur , 2025-02-25 ) Ghosh, Sukhendu Fluid flow problems are prevalent in many areas of real life, including engineering,edical sciences, environmental sciences, and geophysics. A suitable set of differential equations is usually used to model a fluid flow system. These problems often exhibit complex behaviors due to the nonlinear nature of the governing equations and intricate boundary conditions. Traditional analytical and numerical methods often struggle to manage these complexities effectively in many cases. Lie symmetry analysis, a mathematical technique developed by Sophus Lie provides a robust method for simplifying and solving these kinds of complicated differential equations by exploiting the intrinsic infinitesimal transformations. Symmetry analysis enhances our ability to solve fluid flow problems explicitly and to address dynamic challenges by simplifying the governing equations and improving computational efficiency. This technique is effective for finding exact solutions that are useful to analyze various critical physical insights of the flow systems. Throughout this thesis, we examine three aspects of symmetry methods for the systems of partial differential equations (PDEs), which govern different complex flow models. Specifically, we demonstrate: (i) how symmetry methods can be applied and adapted to systematically solve the general as well as the boundary value flow problems (BVPs), (ii) how to obtain local symmetries (classical and nonclassical) and local conservation laws using symbolic manipulation software, and (iii) how to use them for identifying nonlocallyrelated systems that may reveal nonlocal symmetries and nonlocal conservation laws for the governing system of PDEs. The classical symmetry analysis, based on one parameter Lie groups, is a powerful tool to identify the symmetries that reduce the complexity of the governing equations and provide explicit solutions. However, its applicability is limited as it fails in many cases to uncover desired symmetries for certain nonlinear differential equations due to its reliance on point transformations and the strict form of the infinitesimal symmetry generator. To address these limitations, nonclassical symmetry analysis extends the framework by incorporating additional constraints, such as compatibility conditions with invariant surface equations, that allow to obtain more general invariant solutions. Additionally, the nonlocal symmetry analysis broadens the scope by considering symmetries that involve integral or global transformations, capturing hidden or nonlocal structures that classical methods overlook. These approaches are essential for studying complex systems, where the classical symmetry analysis might fail to provide results or overlook important solutions. This enhances both the theoretical understanding and practical use of nonlocal symmetry methods in nonlinear sciences. Moreover, in the context of multidimensional PDEs, the classification of subgroups and their reduction to optimal systems play a crucial role in analyzing the governing systems. Optimal classifications streamline the process of identifying all inequivalent solution branches for the governing PDEs. Recognizing the significance of optimal classification in deriving a complete set of group-invariant solutions, researchers are continually working to simplify these techniques, making them more accessible and practical to apply. The application of symmetry analysis to boundary value problems has been relatively under-explored, and thus, we aim to explore the same in this thesis. In view of that, we have considered a viscous, laminar, incompressible channel flow with small-scale contractions and expansions of the weakly permeable walls, and solved this boundary value problem using the classical symmetry analysis method in Chapter 2. The use of classical symmetry analysis reduces the governing system into a fourth-order ordinary differential equation (ODE), which is solved analytically (via double perturbation and variation iteration methods) and numerically (Shooting methods). The results indicate that wall suction/contraction increases near-wall velocity, while injection/expansion slows it down. Notably, the permeation Reynolds number plays a crucial role in changing flow behavior. Moreover, we have investigated another boundary value problem involving porous media flow through a contracting and expanding channel in Chapter 3. In this study, the entire flow dynamics is modeled by the Darcy-Brinkman equations. The walls of the channel are dilating vertically and there is an inflow through the pores of the walls that develops flow within the porous media inside the channel. It is observed that the classical method is insufficient for identifying the required symmetries for the desired reduction. Consequently, nonclassical symmetry analysis is employed to uncover the hidden symmetries. The obtained nonclassical symmetry helps to find explicit solutions, which is not possible using the classical method alone. It is observed that the velocity profiles are much fuller for larger Darcy numbers, and it behaves like a Hartmann flow for the smaller Darcy numbers. The existence of a flow reversal phenomenon is also noticed for a suction flow with strong wall dilation rates. Thereafter, we move on to examine the symmetry classifications and exact solutions for a set of general flow problems. In Chapter 4, we explored the Lie symmetries and optimal classifications using specific modal approaches for the three-dimensional gas-dynamical equations. The two-dimensional optimal subalgebras offer solution ansatz that captures different physical modes, such as the Kelvin mode, normal mode, and other characteristic patterns, along with their possible combinations. The validity of the three-dimensional normal mode solution corresponding to small perturbation is confirmed through a combined ansatz function in a limiting case. Moreover, the conserved quantities of the governing model are identified using the conservation laws multiplier technique. Subsequently, we have studied the classical symmetry analysis of the three-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations corresponding to incompressible arbitrary plane shear flows (viscous and inviscid) in Chapter 5. At first, a linearization is performed concerning small perturbations, which reduces the complexity of the problem. The invariant ansatz functions are systematically derived using the complete set of classical symmetries, which are used to find the exact solutions. By taking the general symmetry, the popular three-dimensional normal modes and corresponding Orr-Sommerfeld equations for the flow system are obtained. Apart from the local symmetry analysis (classical and nonclassical), we also focus on constructing additional exact solutions by using the nonlocal symmetry analysis method for the general Trouton model in Chapter 6. The model consists of a set of quasilinear hyperbolic PDEs, which govern the dynamics of a thin film of a perfectly soluble anti-surfactant solution. In this study, first, we have computed local symmetries, onedimensional optimal systems, and local conservation laws. Then, those are used to construct nonlocally related potential and inverse potential systems, which provide nonlocal symmetries. Specifically, we obtained a new invariant solution from the nonlocal symmetry analysis of the PDEs system, which can not be obtainable through the invariant solutions of the local symmetry analysis method. Keywords: Lie group of transformations; Invariant solutions; Exact solution; Classical symmetry analysis; Nonclassical analysis; Local conservation laws; Nonlocal symmetry; Navier Stokes equations; Gas dynamical equations; Darcy Brinkman equations; Trouton model; Thin film flow; Porous media flow; Dilating channel; Cross velocity; Velocity slip; Reverse flow. No Thumbnail Available Publication Investigating the Structure and Composition of Compact Stars through astrophysical obeservations ( Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur , 2025-01-20 ) Sinha, Monika No Thumbnail Available Publication Effect of NSI on Quantum Correlations in Neutrino Oscillation ( Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur , 2024-08-31 ) Alok, Ashutosh Kumar ; Kumar, Jitendra The Standard Model (SM) of particle physics stands as our most successful framework for understanding the fundamental constituents of the universe. Within this model, neutrinos emerge as fascinating, elusive particles that were initially believed to be massless. However, the phenomenon of neutrino oscillations revealed that they actually have tiny, nonzero masses. This discovery showed that our current understanding of particle physics was incomplete and pointed to new physics beyond the SM. To delve deeper into neutrino oscillations, we need to consider potential new physics beyond the SM. One such aspect is non-standard interactions (NSI), among other new physics effects. Neutrinos, treated as a three-mode system and mapped to a three-qubit system, offer a unique avenue for exploring quantum correlations. Neutrino oscillations exhibit nonclassical traits in Bell’s inequality, and they serve as an excellent candidate for testing theories of local hidden variables grounded in the principles of locality and realism. In entangled systems like neutrinos, Bell’s inequality violation has been used to measure nonlocal correlations. However, recent studies suggest that a measure called Nonlocal Advantage of Quantum Coherence (NAQC) is a stronger measure of nonlocality than Bell’s inequality parameter in neutrino systems. We investigated this in two-flavor neutrino oscillations across various experiments (DUNE, MINOS, T2K, KamLAND, JUNO, and Daya Bay), considering the impact of NSI. Our findings reveal that while NAQC is a stronger measure of nonlocality, it is relatively less sensitive to NSI effects than Bell’s inequality. Entanglement is another interesting feature to analyze in the neutrino oscillation system. In this work, we investigated the effect of NSI on entanglement measurements such as entanglement of formation, concurrence, and negativity for a three-flavor neutrino oscillation framework in six accelerator and reactor studies. Although it has recently been demonstrated that negativity is a weaker measure than the other two entanglement measures, we discover that negativity is more susceptible to NSI. The effect of NSI also depends on the baseline of an experiment; that’s why DUNE shows more sensitivity. The recent anomaly observed in NOνA and T2K experiments in standard three-flavor neutrino oscillation could potentially signal physics extending beyond the SM. For the NSI parameters that can accommodate this anomaly, i.e., ϵeμ or ϵeτ , we explore the violation of Leggett-Garg type inequalities (LGtI) within the context of three-flavor neutrino oscillations. LGtI violation is significantly enhanced in normal ordering (NO) for the ϵeτ scenario, whereas it is suppressed for the ϵeμ scenario for T2K, NOνA, and DUNE experiment set-up for the three-flavor neutrino oscillation framework. Scalar NSI introduces a coupling between neutrinos and scalar fields, resulting in corrections to the neutrino mass term. There is a growing interest in examining the effects of scalar NSI on experiments that explore neutrino oscillations. We analyze the effect of scalar NSI on various quantum correlation measures in the DUNE experiment. No Thumbnail Available Publication Development Of Chromium and Molybdenum Complexes for CO₂ Hydrogenation and Biological Application ( Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur , 2024-12-31 ) Chakraborty, Subrata The catalytic hydrogenation of the potent greenhouse gas carbon dioxide to value-added products represents a sought-after methodology in academia and industry. Molecular complexes facilitate the conversion of CO2 into formic acid, which is a beneficial process because formic acid is a versatile feedstock in many industries and can be used as a potential renewable hydrogen storage material. Group VI elements chromium and molybdenum are earth-abundant and low-toxic metals, and their chemistry towards the utilization of CO2 has been sparsely investigated. Therefore, we examined both the direct and indirect hydrogenation of CO2 using low-valent Mo(0) and Cr(0) complexes supported by multidentate phosphine ligands with varied bite angles. We achieved maximum formate TONs of 950 and 2,59000, the highest for any Mo and Cr system reported in the literature thus far. Mechanistic probing revealed that the reaction proceeded via the formation of anionic hydride species in both cases. Based on the initial success with low-valent Cr species, we performed CO2 hydrogenation using high-valent Cr (II) pincer complexes and obtained formate with a TON of 87,00. We also carried out the transfer hydrogenation of CO2 using isopropanol as the hydrogen source under ambient conditions using bidentate DPPP ligand-based low-valent chromium complex. A formate TON of up to 1974 was recorded using 1 bar CO2. This is a state-of-the-art discovery with regard to base metal catalysts. Lastly, we developed a NIR II-emitting low-valent Schiff base-supported chromium complex that is effective as an antibacterial agent against gram-positive pathogenic bacteria selectively. The current study deals with transition metal complexes derived from non-noble earth-abundant metals for catalytic and biological applications, and we believe this research opens new avenues for developing next-generation innovative catalysts and bioactive compounds. No Thumbnail Available Publication Studies on Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) Based Microwave & Millimeter-Wave Active Circuits ( Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur , 2024-08-28 ) Mukherjee, Soumava Microwave and Millimeter-Wave (mmWave) active circuits are pivotal in modern communication systems, and other emerging technologies. The research work in this thesis is focused on implementing the microwave and millimeter wave active circuits such as bias tee circuits, amplifiers, SPDT switches, oscillators, and mixers. Various circuit technologies have been available to implement active circuits for the past thirty years. Bulky air-filled waveguides and planar circuit technologies such as microstrip, GCPW, and SIW are well-established in microwave and millimeter-wave circuit design. Air-filled waveguides offer lower loss, but they are bulky, while the aforementioned planar technologies provide compact size at the expense of higher loss. In recent decades, a technology known as substrate-integrated coaxial lines (SICL) has emerged as a bridge between coaxial lines and other planar technologies. SICL has gathered considerable attention from microwave and millimeter-wave circuit designers due to its compact size, lower loss, and electromagnetic shielding capabilities. This planar form of the coaxial line structure can be fabricated using printed circuit board (PCB) technologies and can be seamlessly integrated with other planar circuits. In this work, the design of various microwave and millimeter wave active circuits based on SICL technology is presented. The study of RF and DC blocks in the SICL environment, the design of broadband SICL-based bias tee network with butterfly stubs with improved RF isolation, and the innovative approach of interconnecting pads for mounting SMD capacitors are presented. The SICL technology offers a viable solution to integrate SMD components in a low-profile PCB design approach with good insertion loss and isolation. Additionally, the detailed study of designing and implementing an amplifier using SICL technology highlights a novel low-cost PCB-based approach for the mmWave ISM band (23.35- 24.05 GHz). This design also includes the mounting pads for transistors and capacitors and introduces a novel matching network to enhance amplifier gain, demonstrating the potential of SICL technology in high-frequency applications. The study also presents a Ka-Band (27-28.5GHz) SPDT switch for duplexer applications using SICL technology. The switch incorporates an innovative RF isolation network in an asymmetric stripline environment, achieving optimal isolation and performance, as validated by an equivalent circuit model. Further, a high-performance reflection oscillator for Ku-band applications is designed using SICL technology, achieving low phase noise and high output power. Lastly, the research work introduces a compact mmWave downconverter mixer utilizing a SICL-based rat-race coupler, offering cost-effective, compact, and reliable performance with a low conversion loss. This mixer is ideal for high-performance mmWave integrated circuits in communication and radar systems. This research showcases the viability and effectiveness of SICL technology in various highfrequency applications, providing innovative, cost-efficient solutions for modern communication systems.