Research Highlights | Civil and Infrastructure Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "Hydrodynamics of a rigid submerged vegetated flow" in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4,
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "The universal two-thirds law of pipeline scour" in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4,
Congratulations to Dr. Sreejith Krishnan for publishing a research article titled "Co-calcination of kaolinitic clay and green liquor dregs to produce supplementary cementitious materials" in Journal of Case Studies in Construction Materials
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "Hydrodynamics of turbulent flow in channels with submerged flexible vegetation canopy " in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 3,
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "Effects of U-burrow bioirrigation on turbulence characteristics" in Journal of Hydraulic Research
Congratulations to Mr. Shahiq Ahmad Wani and his supervisor, Dr. Ranju Mohan, for publishing an article titled "Digital payment adoption in public transportation: Mediating role of mode choice segments in developing cities" in Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice
Congratulations to Mr. Abhishek Jain and his supervisor, Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, and Co-Supervisor Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury for publishing an article titled "Comparative efficacy of raw and modified magnesite in the defluoridation of aqueous solutions" in the International Journal of Science Direct's "Desalination and Water Treatment"
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "Shallow water hydrodynamics: Surge propagation and sill-controlled flows" in Physics of Fluids (Vol.36, Issue 12)
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .