Admissions | Integrated Teacher Education Programme | IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur offers admissions to the 4-year BSc-BEd ITEP Program for Secondary Stage with Majors in (i) Physics (ii) Chemistry, and (iii) Mathematics. Each batch will have a total intake of 50 students. Interested applicants should appear for the National Common Entrance Test (NCET), a national-level examination conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), on behalf of the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE).
ITEP students will also have access to all the resources and facilities available to students at IIT Jodhpur. Check out more information about Campus Life and Student Activities on the IITJ website. Double-sharing hostel accommodation (with AC) will be available for all enrolled ITEP students.
Applications for the NCET Examination 2026 are open from 12 February to 10 March 2026. For more information, visit https://exams.nta.nic.in/ncet/
To be considered for admission to the B.Sc BEd programme at IIT Jodhpur, applicants must meet the following requirements:
Academic Qualification: Completion of Class XII or its equivalent (e.g., Pre-University, Intermediate, etc.) in 2025 or 2026 from a recognised Board or University, with a minimum aggregate of:
60% for General, OBC, and EWS categories
55% for SC, ST, and PwD categories
Candidates must have studied Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics in Class XII.
National Common Entrance Test (NCET) Score: Candidates must have appeared in NCET 2026, conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), with Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry as the chosen domain subjects.
The category mentioned in the applicant’s NCET Score Card will be used to determine eligibility for reservation. Reservation and Seat Matrix will be as per the roster prepared according to GoI norms.
Seat Matrix for AY 2026-27
Gen- EWS PwD
OBC NCL PwD
SEMESTER FEE STRUCTURE (AY 2025-2026)
Particulars (per semester)
Amount (in Rs.)
Admission Fee (one time during the Admission)
Convocation Fee (One Time)
Refundable Deposit (One Time)
Experiential and Professional Development Fee
*SC, ST and PwD students are exempted from paying the Tuition Fees.
**The semester fee components are under revision. The additional amount due to any change in the fee structure will be intimated and has to be paid on or before the academic registration of A.Y. 2025-26 Semester-I. The students will be required to submit an undertaking regarding their consent to pay the difference of fee on or before the time of registration.
Timeline of Admissions (2026)
Online Registration for NCET Examination Opens
Close of Online Registration for NCET Examination
Tentative Date for NCET 2026 as per NTA notification
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Feb 2026 - 10:34 AM