All Research Highlights | Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur | IIT Jodhpur
All Research Highlights
2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nanoarchitectonics and Recent Progresses
Tittle of the paper: 2D Materials for Potable Water Application: Basic Nanoarchitectonics and Recent Progresses Small | (2024) 2407160,   https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202407160   Dr. Pranay Ranjan Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Jodhpur Description: Water polluted by toxic chemicals due to waste from chemical/pharmaceuticals and harmful microbes such as E. Coli bacteria causes several fatal diseases; and therefore, water ﬁltration is crucial for accessing clean and safe water necessary for good health. Conventional water ﬁltration technologies include activated carbon ﬁlters, reverse osmosis, and ultraﬁltration. However, they face several challenges, including high energy consumption, fouling, limited selectivity, ineﬃciencies in removing certain contaminants, dimensional control of pores, and structural/chemical changes at higher thermal conditions and upon prolonged usage of water ﬁlter. Recently, the advent of 2D materials such as graphene, BN, MoS 2 , MXenes, and so on opens new avenues for advanced water ﬁltration systems. This review delves into the nano-architectonics of 2D materials for water ﬁltration applications. The current state of water ﬁltration technologies is explored, the inherent challenges they face are outlines, and the unique properties and advantages of 2D materials are highlighted. Furthermore, the scope of this review is discussed, which encompasses the synthesis, characterization, and application of various 2D materials in water ﬁltration, providing insights into future research directions and potential industrial applications Figure 1: Existing membrane technology concerning the structure of membranes Figure 2: Water puriﬁcation techniques.   Article by: Dr. Pranay Ranjan Link :   https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202407160 Research domain: 2D Materials, Membrane, Water Filtration
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:38 PM