Eligibility | Master of Science | IIT Jodhpur
Eligibility for Admission to M.Sc. Programs Admissions to M.Sc Programs are made once a year (in July) through the all-India level Joint Admission Test for Masters (JAM) conducted by IITs. The eligibility criteria prescribed below are the absolute minimum. However, the procedures and other requirements for admission are specified in the JAM Information Brochure brought out every year. Program Qualifying Degree and Marks obtained M.Sc. (Chemistry) Bachelor's degree with Chemistry as a subject for three years or six semesters and Mathematics at (10+2) level. M.Sc. (Mathematics) Bachelor's degree with Mathematics as a subject for three years or six semesters and Mathematics at (10+2) level. M.Sc. (Physics) Bachelor's degree with Physics as a subject for three years or six semesters and Mathematics at (10+2) level.   For all the above M.Sc. Programs, a first class in the qualifying degree and a valid JAM Score are required; and the First Class is defined as:   (i) A minimum of 55% marks for GEN/OBC (50% for SC/ST) category in aggregate or as specified by the university/institute, OR   (ii) A minimum CGPA of 6 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for SC/ST) category on the scale of 10; with corresponding proportional requirements when the scales are other than on 10 (for example 5.2 for GEN/OBC category (4.8 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR (iii) A first class as specified by the university/institute. M.Sc.( Digital Humanities)  Graduate degree in academic disciplines of Humanities, Social Sciences, and Basic Sciences     At least 60% marks or at least 6.0/10 Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) 1. Reservation Policy The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted as laid down by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 05 Jun 2025 - 07:28 PM