Doctoral Programs | Materials Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Ph.D. Programme in Materials Engineering Introduction The Ph.D. program is a demanding, world-class research program in the area of advanced materials science and engineering, designed to address present-day technological challenges in the emerging areas of energy, security, defense, healthcare, space, etc. The Ph.D. students undergo rigorous research training on experimental and computational materials science and engineering through industry-relevant projects emphasizing both fundamental sciences as well as applications in various technological domains. The comprehensive and innovative syllabus at IIT Jodhpur will provide exposure to the core concepts. At the same time, the well-designed handson training in the well-equipped laboratories develops high-end skill sets and nurture innovative ideas through challenging Ph.D. research projects. Ph.D. students in our department are prepared to assume leadership roles in academia, industry, and research institutions. Objective of the program To provide rigorous training to identify the existing knowledge gaps and formulate research problem of the modern-day need To integrate critical reasoning and analytical skills with computational approaches for solving the materials engineering problems To train students to use appropriate experimental techniques for studying materials  To inculcate an attitude towards the commitment to engineering ethics, continued learning and professional development Expected Graduate Attribute Ability to interact with researchers and be professionals with leadership and mentoring capabilities Ability to understand the basic principles of thermodynamics and kinetics of materials  Ability to understand the relation between electronic band structure and electrical, optical and magnetic properties Ability to process materials and fabricate components following various manufacturing processes, and characterize the microstructure Ability to correlate processing-structure-property-performance Ability to use different simulation tools for a better understanding of materials Ability to understand the basic principles of material science and engineering to design new materials and processing routes as per the application  Ability to design and execute technical projects Skills to communicate engineering concepts and ideas to peers Appreciation and adherence to professional ethics Learning Outcome Ability to apply thermodynamics and kinetics principles to understand, design and process advanced materials   Ability to use computational and analytical modeling techniques to design materials and predict various properties of materials Ability to use materials testing and characterization techniques to validate structureproperty-performance correlation in materials at various length scales Ability to determine processing parameters for extraction of ferrous and non-ferrous metals, and design process cycle to convert raw material to a final product Ability to fabricate components following traditional and emerging manufacturing processes
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 26 Nov 2025 - 05:12 PM