Events and Activities | Materials Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Events and Activities
Department organized a presentation on "Material's Future" by Prof. Indranil Chattoraj on Thursday, 12 January 2023 at 05.15 PM in the Departmental Seminar Room. Prof. Indranil Chattoraj is currently an Adjunct Professor in our Department. He was the former Director of the National Metallurgical Laboratory, Jamshedpur, India.
Department organized a presentation on "Sustainability of Metal Structures via Spray Clad Remanufacturing" by Prof. Sanjay Sampath on Wednesday, 11 January 2023 at 10.45 AM in the Department Seminar Room. Prof. Sanjay Sampath, is currently Distinguished Professor of Materials Science at Stony Brook University (SUNY) and director of the Center for Thermal Spray Research (website) an interdisciplinary industry-university partnership in the field of thermal spray materials processing and surface engineering.
Department organized a 4-day workshop on "Advances in Additive Manufacturing (3D Printing)" from 06-09 December 2022 in the Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, IIT Jodhpur. The 4-day workshop was held in both offline and online mode. Prof. Amitava De (IIT Bombay) graced the Inaugural Function as the Chief Guest.
Department organized an "Orientation session" for the Undergraduate students on Tuesday, 01 November 2022 at 05.00 PM in the Department Seminar Room. Program included Welcome of new students, Introduction to curriculum, Departmental tour, Introduction to Career Development Opportunities and Department Society Activities, and an interaction with Faculty members of the Department.
Institute level Open House (IIT Jodhpur Padharo) event was conducted on Wednesday, 20 April 2022 (5 pm - 9 pm). People in large numbers joined the event to know more about the Institute, different facilities, and different departments.
PG Open House was conducted on Monday, 18 April 2022 (10 am - 1 pm). Prospective students joined the event to know more about the department and different PG programmes
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 26 Nov 2025 - 05:12 PM