Faculty Members | Mathematics | IIT Jodhpur
Specialization for Positions in Department of Mathematics
Applications are invited from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for contractual and full-time positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the Department of Mathematics to carry out teaching-learning and research in the following fields:
Probability and Statistics,
Theoretical Computer Science,
Data Science, Computational Science.
The Department also welcomes applicants with background in other relevant fields of Mathematics. Applicant should preferably have undergraduate degree in Mathematics or Mathematical Science or Computer Science from a reputed Institute or University along with good academic record throughout from Class X. The Institute provides necessary facilities to undertake research and development. Further, the Department encourages faculty members to interact with the industry and national laboratories to conduct research and development in nationally relevant areas.
The Department offers Masters and Doctoral Degree Programs in Mathematics and Data and Computational Sciences and is planning to launch a 4-year B.Tech. Programme in Artificial Intellegence and Data Science jointly with Department of Computer Science and Engineering. Faculty members are also required to teach courses in various Undergraduate and Masters degree programmes of the Institute. For more information, please visit the Department website at:  Mathematics   Interested persons  Apply Here
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 12:36 PM