Faculty Members | Materials Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Specialization for Positions in Department of Materials Engineering Applications are invited from Indian and Foreign Nationals with exceptional academic record, relevant teaching experience, excellent research record and valuable industrial experience for contractual and full-time positions of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering to carry out teaching-learning and research in the following fields: Electronic, Optical and Magnetic Materials and Devices, Extraction of Metals and Mineral Processing, Integrated Computational Materials Engineering, Materials Processing and Process Development, Physical and Mechanical Metallurgy of Materials, and Thermodynamics and Kinetic Processes in Materials. Department is especially interested in applicants with prior experience of working on Materials for Structural, Automotive and Railway Applications. The Department also welcomes applicants with background in other relevant fields of Materials Engineering. Applicant must have undergraduate degree in Materials or Metallurgical Engineering from a reputed Institute or University along with good academic record throughout from Class X. The Institute is building extensive laboratory facilities with many advanced state-of-the-art equipment to undertake research and development. Further, the Department encourages faculty members to interact with the industry and national laboratories to conduct research and development in nationally relevant areas. Interested persons are invited to apply by clicking here .
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 26 Nov 2025 - 05:12 PM