Mathematics | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome to the Department of Mathematics
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and creates new theories to solve real-world challenging problems. Our department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods to model such situations that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering, and basic sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Algebra, Mathematical Physics, Scientific Computation, Numerical Analysis, Partial Differential Equations, Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos, Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Image Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Reliability Theory, Applied Probability.
We are excited to offer high-quality programs at postgraduate level for students who wish to apply math to science or engineering such as a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences. We also offer an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational Sciences and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics to those who wish to earn a deeper understanding of pure and applied Mathematics.
Workshop on LEAN
List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II of 2025-26
5 th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization (ICNAAO -2025)
From the Head of the Department
Welcome to the Department of Mathematics!!
The Department of Mathematics is dedicated to advancing the fields of pure mathematics, applied mathematics and statistics. Our vision is to emphasize both the fundamental principles of core mathematics and the foundational concepts essential for analyzing key principles applied in cutting-edge technologies. Since its establishment, the department has been actively engaged in research across various critical areas of mathematics and computing.
The department also aimed to explore modern aspects of mathematics coupled with computational capabilities to develop a workforce specialized in mathematical aspects of key technologies. With this inclination, the department initiated academic programs to address the mathematical needs of both industry and academia. Currently, we offer various programmes, namely, a two-year M.Sc. program in Mathematics, a four-year M.Sc-M.Tech program in Mathematics-Data and Computational Sciences, a two year M.Tech program in Data and Computational Sciences....
Read More: Head Message
View all Events
Invited talk by Dr. Sushil Bhunia on 19th March, 2025 at 12:00 PM
Research seminar by Dr Abhishek Kumar Singh on Feb 23, 2026
Invited talk by Prof. Basant Lal Sharma on 27 January 2026 at 12PM
View all announcement
Ph.D. Admission Results Semester-II, AY 2025-26
Merit List of Provisionally Shortlisted Candidates for Ph.D. Admission...
List of provisionally shortlisted candidates for Ph.D. entrance examination for Semester II....
View all news
Workshop on LEAN
The Department of Mathematics is organizing an introductory workshop on the  Lean proof assistant  from 26th to 28th February.
5th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization (ICNAAO-2025)
5th International Conference on Nonlinear Applied Analysis and Optimization (ICNAAO-2025)
AFS-I - Annual Foundation School - I (2024) IIT Jodhpur
AFS-I - Annual Foundation School - I (2024) IIT Jodhpur
View all Highlights
Nonlinear coupled-mode framework for coupled systems: From exact Hamiltonian models to improved reduced-order formulations
General Casorati inequalities and implications for Riemannian maps and Riemannian submersions
Congratulation to Dr Kiran Meena for Published of research paper
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 12:36 PM