Materials Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome To The Department of Materials Engineering
The Department of Materials Engineering at IIT Jodhpur was established in 2017, and the Department is committed to high-quality education and research in the broad area of Materials Engineering. The Department continuously strives for excellence in teaching and research through innovative pedagogy and curriculum, by undertaking interdisciplinary projects, and through active collaborations with industries, R&D labs, and academia. By enabling the students to think independently and equipping them with relevant skill sets, our goal is to encourage the graduates to innovate and address present-day materials challenges to meet the needs of the country. At present, the Department offers B.Tech., M.Tech., and Ph.D. programs. The Department's teaching and research activities cover four major streams- structural materials, functional materials, computational materials engineering, and process metallurgy. From structural materials to semiconductors, we attempt to understand the processing, composition and structure, properties, and performance of materials for deriving novel, effective, and sustainable alternatives. Currently, efforts are being made to introduce advanced concepts such as smart materials, additive manufacturing, artificial intelligence and machine learning, sensor materials, etc., as a part of solving interdisciplinary problems requiring Materials Engineering knowledge. Department building image
Head of the Department
The Department of Materials Engineering at IIT Jodhpur is working towards building future generation minds rich in skills and innovation to be the best in the outside world. Faculty Members in the department have expertise in diverse areas of Materials Engineering. They are actively involved in conducting translational research in the fundamental and applied areas of Materials Engineering. The department frequently organizes invited lectures and workshops to share research findings, train students on the state-of-the-art experimental and computational techniques to promote the development of skill sets.
The Department welcomes bright people who aspire to utilize the power of ambitious research and teaching to shape a better future.
Materials Design and Processing Advanced Structural and Functional Materials Computational Materials Engineering Extractive and Process Metallurgy Materials Testing and Characterization
View all highlights
Shahzad Ahmed has been honored with the 🏆 Best Oral Presentation Award at the 2nd International Conference on Materials Science and Engineering
Imaging atomic-scale magnetism with energy-filtered differential phase contrast method
Abir Bhattacharyya awarded Early Career Research Award (ECRA)
View all news
PhD Result of AY 2025-26, Semester II
Shortlisted candidates for the Ph.D. written test/interview for Semester II of 2025-26
Admission to Ph.D. Programme, AY 2025-26 Semester I (Round-2)
Admission to Ph.D. Programme, AY 2025-26 Semester I: Shortlisting of Candidates ...
List of Provisionally Selected PhD Candidates, AY 2025-26 Semester I
AY 2025-26 SEMESTER I Ph.D. ADMISSIONS (Round II) MME
View all events
Department organized a presentation on "Material's Future" by Prof. Indranil Chattoraj
Department organized a presentation on "Sustainability of Metal Structures via Spray Clad Remanufacturing " by Prof. Sanjay Sampath
Department organized a 4-day workshop on "Advances in Additive Manufacturing (3D Printing)"
Department organized an "Orientation session" for the Undergraduate students
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 26 Nov 2025 - 05:12 PM