Undergraduate Programs | Mathematics | IIT Jodhpur
Minor Program in Data Science The Department of Mathematics offers a Minor Program in Data Science (DS) from July 2020. The minor program is offered to all the  B.Tech. students of the institute except the students enrolled in B.Tech.(CSE), B.Tech.(AI&DE) and B.Tech.(EE) programs. The program facilitates the study of a multidisciplinary field that makes extensive use of statistics, predictive modeling, and machine learning without changing its application, irrespective of the domain. The main objective of specialization in Data Science is to equip students with the fundamental concepts, approaches, and methods in data science. The curriculum includes courses in mathematics, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and their applications in various domains.Upon the completion of the minor, students will develop critical and logical thinking to solve problems in data science and further will be able to use appropriate technology that aids their problem-solving and data analysis. B.Tech in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AI&DS) The Department of Mathematics offers a Minor Program in Data Science (DS) from July 2020. The minor program is offered to all the  B.Tech. students of the institute except the students enrolled in B.Tech.(CSE), B.Tech.(AI&DE) and B.Tech.(EE) programs. The program facilitates the study of a multidisciplinary field that makes extensive use of statistics, predictive modeling, and machine learning without changing its application, irrespective of the domain. The main objective of specialization in Data Science is to equip students with the fundamental concepts, approaches, and methods in data science. The curriculum includes courses in mathematics, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and their applications in various domains. Upon the completion of the minor, students will develop critical and logical thinking to solve problems in data science and further will be able to use appropriate technology that aids their problem-solving and data analysis.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 12:36 PM