M. Tech. - Ph.D. Program | Materials Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
M. Tech. - Ph.D. Program
Introduction M.Tech. - Ph.D. program in the Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering is aimed for students with a B.Tech. degree and having an interest in pursuing a teaching, research or advanced technology career. The salient features of the program are The dual-degree program takes fresh B.Tech. graduates into research early in their career and develops them to take up the roles of future academicians, scientists, innovators, incubators and entrepreneurs. The program offers attractive scholarship equivalent to that of a PhD student from the day one of joining. Materials engineering students under this designed curriculum can begin their academic and industrial research career in one of the following areas (i) Computational Materials Engineering (ii) Structural Materials and (iii) Functional Materials. Provides hands-on experience in state-of-the-art experimental and computational tools in early stages of student carriers to design novel materials for various structural and functional applications. Strong industry collaboration based research projects Objective of the program To produce professionals with deep understanding of experimental and computational materials engineering, capable of providing innovative solutions for materials challenges in energy, electronics, aerospace, automotive, and healthcare industries. To train the students for the roles of future academicians, scientists, innovators, and incubatees. Expected Graduate Attribute Ability to correlate electronic structure with transport properties of materials Skill set to optimize microstructure and determine structure-property correlation Ability to design and execute experiments for studying mechanical behavior of materials, and develop mechanistic models for failure prediction Ability to determine metallurgical processing parameters for extraction of ferrous and non-ferrous metals, and design process cycle to convert ore to final product Ability to fabricate components following traditional and non-traditional manufacturing processes Ability to characterize features at atomic-, nano-, meso-, micro- and macro- length scales Ability to innovate materials for next generation energy, electronic and healthcare devices Skills to communicate the scientific findings to peers and general public Appreciation and adherence to professional ethics Ability to design and execute technical projects Learning Outcome Design the materials by microstructure control to meet the required properties Use various modeling techniques for studying physical, mechanical, functional and transport properties of materials Apply thermodynamics and kinetics principles to understand and control materials processes Fabricate structural and functional materials through traditional and non-traditional manufacturing processes Use various material characterization tools Apply principles of material deformation to predict failure of materials for reliable design of structures Understand the process metallurgy involved in ferrous and non-ferrous metal extraction Define a scientific problem and devise an appropriate methodology for addressing the problem
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 26 Nov 2025 - 05:12 PM