Postgraduate Program | Mechanical Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
M.Tech The department currently offers M.Tech in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Advanced Manufacturing & Design and Thermofluids Engineering. A wide range of specialization related courses is currently offered. There are four modes of admission in M.Tech Program: Regular with fellowship  Industry-Sponsored Self-Sponsored Part-Time The salient features of specializations.    (Download file : 380 KB) The details of eligibility can be accessed here. M.Tech students getting admission in regular mode are provided with an assistantship of Rs. 12400 per month as per the MHRD rules. Guidelines and Format for Submission of Project Report for M.Tech. Students    (Download file 211 KB) Link for online Application for M.Tech. Program (Self-Sponsored) in Mechanical Engineering Detailed Advertisement for M.Tech program (Self-sponsored) in Mechanical Engineering Brochure for M.Tech program (Self-sponsored) in Mechanical Engineering    (Download file 355 KB) List of shortlisted candidates for M.Tech Admission test (Self-Sponsored) in Thermofluids (TFE) List of shortlisted candidates for M.Tech Admission test (Self-Sponsored) in Advanced Manufacturing and Design (AMD) Syllabus for written test for M.Tech Admission test (Self-Sponsored) in Thermofluids (TFE) Syllabus for written test for M.Tech Admission test (Self-Sponsored) in Advanced Manufacturing and Design (AMD) Reporting details for M.Tech Admission test (Self-Sponsored) in Thermofluids (TFE) Reporting details for M.Tech Admission test (Self-Sponsored) in Advanced Manufacturing and Design (AMD) List of selected candidates for M.Tech in Thermofluids Engineering (TFE) List of selected candidates for M.Tech in Advanced Manufacturing and Design (AMD)
M.Tech-PhD Dual Degree The department currently offers an M.Tech-PhD dual degree in Mechanical Engineering with a specialization in Advanced Manufacturing and Thermofluids. A wide range of specialization related courses is currently offered. Specialization: Mechanical Design/ Thermofluids/ Advanced Manufacturing The department offers M. Tech-PhD dual course in Mechanical Engineering within three major domains of Thermofluids, Mechanical Design, and Smart Manufacturing. The students also have the opportunity to work with an interdisciplinary specialization in emerging areas such as Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data and Computational Science, Smart Healthcare, Energy Materials, and Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS). Click here for the salient features of specializations. (  Download file) *The expected duration for the award of Ph.D. degree in this program is 5 years. Admitted students are paid the monthly assistantship the same as that of Ph.D. scholars from the first day. The current assistantship is Rs 31000 per month as per the MHRD rules. List of Candidates Shortlisted for Written Examination for M.Tech-Ph.D. Admissions for AY 2024-25 Semester 1 (July 2024) (  Download file)
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:34 PM