Security | Office of Security & Transports | IIT Jodhpur
(i) Operations a. Security Operations: Vision: To create a safe and secure environment that fosters a culture of trust, respect, and well-being within the institute, enabling everyone to thrive in their academic and professional pursuits. Mission: Our mission is to protect the lives, property, and integrity of our institute community through proactive measures, continuous education, and collaboration. We are dedicated to: Ensuring Safety: To implement effective safety protocols and emergency response plans that safeguard all individuals on campus. Building Trust: To cultivate open communication and positive relationships with students, faculty, and staff, promoting a community that feels comfortable reporting concerns. Training the Security Personnel: To provide training and resources that empower individuals to recognize and respond to security threats effectively. Promoting Awareness: To enhance awareness of security issues through regular updates and engagement initiatives that keep the community informed and vigilant. Embodying Integrity: To uphold the highest standards of professionalism and ethics in all our actions, fostering a secure and supportive environment for learning and growth. b. Fire Operations Training of Personnel Mock drills General Instructions for Fire Safety SOP for usage of Fire Tender (ii) Policies and Guidelines Security Manual and Policies Security Instructions/Do’s and Don’ts in the Campus  General Instructions and guidelines for Students General Instructions and guidelines for Residents CCTV Protocol Bicycle Protocol Traffic rules Wildlife Conservation guidelines (iii) Information Important Forms • Vehicle Sticker Form:  Employees-Vehicle Sticker Form 2025: Google Form Link  Students-Vehicle Sticker Form 2025: Google Form Link • Servant/Maid/Service Providers Entry Forms • Contractual Manpower Entry Pass Request: Google Form Link • CCTV Footage Viewing Request form (iv) Help Desk Student’s Help Desk: Security, Caretakers of Hostels and mess  Employees/Residents Help Desk: Office of Security Contact No: 0291 280 1591/1592/1593/1597/1598 Main Gate Security Help desk: UC, SUP, Main Gate telephone: 0291 280 1961 (v) Alerts & Notices: Any instructions or guidelines regarding ant events/conferences/activities of the institute will be updated from time to time. (vi) Lost and Found If you find any item on campus, please ensure it is handed over to the Security Department. You can do this by giving the item to the nearest Security Guard or at the Security Helpdesk. For any lost items, please visit the Security office, W1 Berm to inquire about items that have been turned in. The item will be recorded and return to the rightful owner upon verification by bill or other documents and receipt. To view found items that have been reported to the security team, please check our webpage for a list that includes the date and location of the items. This information will be available on the webpage for a duration of one month. Link of google form: Register a complaint for lost/found items (vii) Committees Security and Transport Advisory Committee Safety and Disaster Management Committee (viii) Emergency Response and contacts
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 19 Mar 2026 - 04:33 PM