M.Tech. | Quantum Information and Computation | IIT Jodhpur
Inter-Disciplinary Research Platformon on Quantum Information and Computation Invites applications for MTech in Quantum Technologies Program open for: B.Tech./B.E./M.Tech. in CSE, EE,Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, ECE, Materials Engineering OR M.Sc. in Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and Computer Science Further information:   https://iitj.ac.in/qic/ Apply at: Click Here Due-date: 20 April 2024
During the last three decades, the field of quantum technologies has received much public attention, all due to the efforts from academia and industry to bring quantum information and computation to the verge of technology development. The fusion of fundamental laws of quantum mechanics with computing and information theory has led the path toward performing computation in the quantum realm. The significant development towards shifting the computing paradigm from classical to quantum- and from theory to technological implementation- can be attributed to groups of researchers across the globe and multinational giants like IBM, Google, D-wave, Microsoft, Honeywell, Ion Q, Intel, Hewlett Packard, Regetti, Cambridge quantum computing, and Quantum Biosystems, to name a few. In alignment with the Government of India's initiative in Quantum Technologies, the Inter-Disciplinary Research Platform for Quantum Information and Computation (IDRP QIC) at IIT Jodhpur is launching a unique interdisciplinary initiative to create manpower with advanced skills and technical know-how in the domain of quantum technology.
IIT Jodhpur faculty members in departments of Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Chemical Engineering, and Materials Engineering are working on various aspects of quantum technology. In view of the technological development and importance of the area, the Institute already offers a compulsory course for B.Tech. students on Quantum Information and Computation from July 2019 onwards. Moreover, the Institute offers a minor in Quantum Information and Computation for B.Tech. students. Furthermore, IDRP-QIC at IITJ has an established interdisciplinary Ph.D. program in QIC and quantum technology from July 2019.
Apart from handling individual projects in Quantum Information and Computation, faculty members of the IDRP-QIC in IIT Jodhpur are actively involved in QuEST, with sponsored projects- currently ongoing- in collaboration with other institutes. The group is approaching industry partners and startups for academic and research collaborations to strengthen the state-of-the-art further.
Quantum computing has applications in cybersecurity, computational chemistry and drug development, financial modeling, materials and battery technologies, traffic optimization, weather forecasting and study of climate change, machine learning, Artificial Intelligence, etc. Many enterprises and their ventures are investing and entering in this domain to take a strategic lead further. There will be a need for trained manpower to tap the full potential of quantum technologies and accelerate the ongoing developments for wider applications.
For that, IITJ proposed to offer a two-year M.Tech. program on quantum technologies offering specialization in the following domains:
Objectives of the MTech program
MTech program structure The two-year M.Tech. program on Quantum Technologies (MT-QT) starts with foundation core courses covering various aspects of this interdisciplinary domain in the first semester. The students will be specialized in one of the following four areas through a bouquet of compulsory and elective specialization courses, Quantum Computing Quantum Communications Quantum sensing and devices Quantum materials.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 15 Dec 2025 - 03:00 PM