Data structures and practices
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. (CSE) 1
Prerequisite  Computer Programming
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain various data structures and provide details to implement and use them in different
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Write, debug and rectify the programs using different data structures
2.  Expertise in transforming coding skills into algorithm design and implementation
Exercises based on
Abstract Data Types:
Shortest Path First algorithm, Dynamic programing (6 labs)
Arrays, link-list/list, hash tables, dictionaries, structures, stack, queues
Heap, Sets, Sparse matrix, Binary Search Tree, B-Tree/ B+ Tree, Graph (4
Quick or Merge sort, Breadth or Depth first search or Dijkstra’s
1. Weiss, M. A. (2007), Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Addison-Wesley.
2. Lipschutz, S. (2017), Data Structures with C, McGraw Hill Education.
3. Cormen, T. H., Leiserson, C. E., Rivest, R. L. and Stein, C., (2009), Introduction to
Algorithms, MIT Press
Software and Data Engineering
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech.
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
1.  Discuss techniques to manage a large amount of data
2.  Provide mechanisms to design and develop data-intensive computing systems
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design complex end-to-end data pipeline for data processing
2.  Critically identify and use the tools for data handling and management
3.  Use modern software technologies to design and develop data analytical systems
Concept of modular software, microservices,
Basics of complex software design:
communication, 4+1 architectural views and patterns (5 lectures)
Architecture of cluster computing, design of data centers, open data center
platforms, fault-tolerant system design (5 lectures)
Type-1 and Type-2 virtualization, virtual machine, containers, dockers (4
Structured data, relational database management, unstructured
data, semi-structured data,  Nosql database management (mongodb), column database, graph
database, XML, JSON, HDFS, Handling drift in data, sensor data reliability at software and
algorithmic level, sensor data analysis techniques (14 lectures)
systems, Hadoop, Apache Spark, Storm, parallel data processing concepts such as
map-reduce, directed acyclic graph, resilient distributed datasets, dynamic resource allocation,
partial & shared computation, storage architecture  (14 lectures)
Architecture of large scale data processing
Data Intensive Processing Systems:
1. Bass L., Clements P., Kazman R., (2012),
Software Architecture in Practice
2. Martin K., (2017),
Designing Data-Intensive Applications: The Big Ideas Behind Reliable,
Scalable, and Maintainable Systems
Self Learning Material
Theory and Practice
Tylor,R.N., Medvidovic,N. and Dashofy,E.M., (2014),
Preparatory Course Material
1. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering
2. International Conference on Data Engineering
Software Architecture Foundation:
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. 2
Prerequisite  Computer Organization
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide background to understand various components of a modern computer system,
its interconnections, and performance issue
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Explain the working principles of various components of modern computer systems
2.   Compare between systems using benchmark data
3.   Write, execute and debug parallel programs on GPU
Introduction: Defining Computer Architecture, Flynn’s Classification of Computers,
Metrics for Performance Measurement. (4 lectures)
Introduction, Advanced Optimizations of Cache Performance, Memory
Technology and Optimizations, Virtual Memory and Virtual Machines, The Design of Memory
Hierarchies, Introduction to Pin Instrumentation and Cache grind, Case Study: Intel Core i7
Challenges, Basic Compiler Techniques for Exposing ILP, Reducing Branch Costs with
Advanced Branch Prediction, Dynamic Scheduling, Superscalar, Limitations of ILP, Case
Study: Dynamic Scheduling in Intel Core i7. (9 lectures)
Multicore Processor: Introduction, CPU Interconnections, Network on Chip (NoC), Routing
Protocols, Quality of Service on NoC. (5 lectures)
Introduction, Vector Architecture, SIMD Instruction Set
Extensions for Multimedia, Graphics Processing Units, GPU Memory Hierarchy, Detecting and
Enhancing Loop- Level Parallelism, CUDA Programming, Case Study: Nvidia Maxwell. (14
Instruction-level Parallelism: Concepts and
Data Level Parallelism:
1. Hennessy,J.L. and Patterson,D.A.,
2. Shen,J.P. and Lipasti,M.H., (2005),
, McGraw-Hill Publishers
​ Edition, Morgan Kauffmann Publishers
Computer Architecture: A Quantitative
Modern Processor Design: Fundamentals of Superscalar
2.  OpenMP: https://www.openmp.org/
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. 1
​ Year, Ph.D. 1
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide motivation and understanding of the need and importance of Machine Learning in
2.  Provide details about various algorithms in Machine Learning
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Develop a sense of Machine Learning in the modern context, and independently work on
problems relating to Machine Learning
2.   Design and program efficient algorithms related to Machine Learning, train models,
conduct experiments, and deliver ML-based applications
Introduction, Stochastic Gradient Descent, Subgradients, Stochastic
Clustering: Linkage-based clustering algorithms, k-means algorithm, Spectral
Motivation, Different types of learning, Linear regression, Logistic
Feedforward neural networks, Expressive power of neural networks, SGD and
regression (2 lectures)
Gradient Descent for risk minimization (2 lectures)
Support Vector Machines: Hard SVM, Soft SVM, Optimality conditions, Duality, Kernel trick,
Implementing Soft SVM with Kernels (4 lectures)
Decision Tree algorithms, Random forests (2 lectures)
k-nearest neighbour, Curse of dimensionality (1 lecture)
Backpropagation (3 lectures)
clustering (2 lectures)
Dimensionality reduction: Principal Component Analysis, Random projections, Compressed
sensing (2 lectures)
Latent variables and Expectation-maximization algorithm, Bayesian learning (4 lectures)
Feature Selection and Generation: Feature selection, Feature transformations, Feature learning
Model selection and validation: Validation for model selection, k-fold cross-validation,
Training-Validation-Testing split, Regularized loss minimization (3 lectures)
Bias-complexity tradeoff, No free lunch theorem, VC dimension, Structural risk minimization,
Adaboost (7 lectures)
DNN, CNN, RNN, Autoencoders (7 lectures)
Foundations of Deep Learning:
Maximum likelihood estimator, Naive Bayes, Linear Discriminant Analysis,
PAC learning, Agnostic
1. Shalev-Shwartz,S., Ben-David,S., (2014),
, Cambridge University Press
Understanding Machine Learning: From Theory to
1.  Mitchell Tom (1997).
Self Learning Material
1.   Department of Computer Science, Stanford University,
The Instructor will:
Ad-Hoc Wireless Networks
Computer Science and Engineering
​ Year, PhD 1
Number  CS 6XX
L-T-P[C]  3–0–0 [3]
1.   Introduce the mathematical models and network protocol designs in wireless Ad-hoc
2.   Provide a systematic exposition of network protocols and their cross
3. To provide more advanced in-depth networking knowledge. Upon completion of this course,
students will be able to apply the knowledge in their networking research. A broad perspective on
the active research areas in wireless Ad-hoc networks
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Demonstrate advanced knowledge of networking and wireless networking in particular
2.   Compare different solutions for communications at each network layer
3.   Demonstrate knowledge of protocols used in wireless communications
MAC Protocols for Ad hoc Wireless
Ad hoc Networks: Introduction, Issues in Ad
Basics of wireless networks and mobile computing:
hoc wireless networks, Ad hoc wireless internet (3 lectures)
Media access control in ad hoc and sensor networks:
Networks: Introduction, Issues in designing a MAC protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks,
Design goals of a MAC protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Classification of MAC protocols,
Contention based protocols with reservation mechanisms. Contention-based MAC protocols with
scheduling mechanism, MAC protocols that use directional antennas, Other MAC protocols,
Network and transport layer issues for ad hoc and sensor networks (8 lectures)
Routing protocols for Ad hoc Wireless Networks: Introduction, Issues in designing a routing
protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Classification of routing protocols, Table drive routing
protocol, On-demand routing protocol, Hybrid routing protocol, Routing protocols with effective
flooding mechanisms, Hierarchical routing protocols, Power aware routing protocols (8 lectures)
Transport layer protocols for Ad hoc Wireless Networks: Introduction,
Transport layer protocols:
Issues in designing a transport layer protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Design goals of a
transport layer protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Classification of transport layer solutions,
TCP over Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Other transport layer protocols for Ad hoc Wireless Networks
Security: Security in wireless Ad hoc Wireless Networks,
Security issues for ad hoc networks:
Network security requirements, Issues & challenges in security provisioning, Network security
attacks, Key management, Secure routing in Ad hoc Wireless Networks (6 lectures)
QoS for ad hoc Networks:
Quality of service in Ad hoc Wireless Networks: Introduction, Issues
and challenges in providing QoS in Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Classification of QoS solutions,
MAC layer solutions, network layer solutions (3 lectures)
Software-defined network (SDN), Mesh networking, Energy issues and
Sensor networks (6 lectures)
Programming exercises using NS2/NS3, QualNet, Java and OmNet++
1. Siva Ram Murthy, C., & Manoj, B. S. (2015). Ad hoc wireless networks: Architectures and
PHI Pearson Education
2. Akyildiz, Ian F., and Xudong Wang(2015).
. Vol. 3. John Wiley & Sons
Wireless mesh networks
1. Basagni, S., Conti, M., Giordano, S., & Stojmenovic, I. (Eds.). (2015).
. John Wiley & Sons
2. Perkins, C. E. (2001).
3. Toh, C. K. (2001).
(Vol. 1). Reading: Addison-wesley
Ad hoc networking
Ad hoc mobile wireless networks: protocols and systems
Mobile ad hoc
4. Cheng, X., Huang, X., & Du, D. Z. (Eds.). (2013).
Springer Science & Business Media
Ad hoc wireless networking (Vol. 14).
Self Learning Material
1.   Computer Networks - MIT OpenCourseWare
2.  Mobile and Wireless Networks and Applications, Stanford University,
3. IEEE Transactions and other journals
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. (CSE) 1
Prerequisite  Networks and Machine Learning-1
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
The Instructor will:
1.   Provide the problem of Modelling and Estimation of Autonomous Systems
2.   Introduce the Implementation of Autonomous Systems for solving Engineering Problems
3.   Provide the theory of advanced techniques such as Fuzzy Logic, PSO and Neural Networks
4.   Provide the implement simulations and real systems for the control and estimation of
processes such as a mobile robotic platform
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Understand the theory and application of the Systems and their Design for solving diverse
types of problems in the area of Engineering
2.   Be able to develop software for applying the theory and actually solving complex
3. Have experience in using state of the art sensors, used in Field Robotics and Autonomous
Systems and their Design:
introduction to systems and design
The Global Architecture of an Autonomous System: Introduction to autonomous systems
including the architecture of autonomous systems
design of agents
Designing a Multi-Agent Autonomous System:
Generation of Current Representation and Tendencies
The Notions of Point of View, Intent and Organizational Memory
Towards the Minimal Self of an Autonomous System
Global Autonomy of Distributed Autonomous Systems
Real-time reactive systems
1.   Mhamed Itmi, Alain Cardon(2016),  New Autonomous Systems,  Wiley-ISTE
2.   De Gyurky, S. M., & Tarbell, M. A. (2013).
. John Wiley & Sons
Synthesis of the Sciences of the Mind
The Autonomous System: A Foundational
1.   Tzafestas, S. G. (Ed.). (2012).
Springer Science & Business Media
2.   Ge, S. S. (2006).
. CRC press
Self Learning Material
IEEE Transactions and other journals
Advances in intelligent autonomous systems
Autonomous mobile robots: sensing, control, decision making and