Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Annual Report 2011-2012
From the Director’s Desk
From the Director’s Desk
Four years since its inception, with its first batch of undergraduate students having completed
their programs, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur continues to make its signatory mark
in the academia worthy of a premier educational  institute in India.   At present, the  institute
offers  B.Tech  programs  in  Computer  Science  and  Engineering,  Electrical  Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering, and System Science. In  the academic  year 2011-2012, he  institute
has  designed  a  B.  Tech.  program  and  a  minor  program  in  Biologically-inspired  Systems
Science  and  in  Art,  Culture,  and  Heritage  respectively,  programs  which  are  scheduled  to
commence  from  July  2013.  IIT  Jodhpur  offers  M.Tech  and  PhD  programs  at  the  Center  of
Excellence in Energy, Centre of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology
(ICT),  and  the  Centre  of  Excellence  in  Systems  Science  (SS).  In  addition,  the  institute  is
looking forward to offering a PhD program from July 2013 in Biologically-inspired Systems
In  order  to  promote  inter-disciplinary  culture  in  each  and  every  academic  activity,  IIT
Jodhpur  does  not  adopt  the  structure  of  academic  departments  based  on  the  individual
disciplines. Accordingly, IIT Jodhpur is committed to developing state of the art, research-led
and  multidisciplinary  centres  of  excellence  where  scholars  from  different  disciplines  carry
out  productive  research  on  emerging  and  technological,  scientific,  and  social  issues  that
characterize the challenges  faced  by the contemporary world. The CoEs create a distinctive
interdisciplinary and collaborative learning environment, giving our students a global outlook
and  holistic  problem-solving  approach.  We  aim  to  produce  students  who  are  highly
innovative and entrepreneurial, and are proud that last year our students were hired by some
of  the  best  national  and  international  companies.  Now  IIT  Jodhpur  has  five  Centers  of
Excellence—in  Energy,  Information  and  Communication  Technology,  Systems  Science,
Biologically-inspired Systems Science, and Art, Culture, and Heritage—the last two of these
centers were initiated in the academic year 2011-12.
The institute remains a locus of vibrant academic activities. Academic seminars, workshops,
and  lectures  from  experts  belonging  to  various  fields  contribute  substantially  to  the
intellectual  vigour  prevailing  in  the  campus.  The  research  at  IIT  Jodhpur  is  focused  on
solving  socio-economic  problems  and  creating  cost-effective  technological  solutions.  With
the  help  of  our  collaborators,  the  vision  of  our  faculty,  and  a  team  of  highly  motivated
students we aim to make IIT Jodhpur one of the premier institutes in the world. We are very
proud of our students, faculty, and visiting faculty from around the country and the world.
IIT Jodhpur is committed to environmentally-friendly practices. Almost our entire campus is
powered by solar energy and our permanent campus has been planned as a “net zero energy
campus”,  generating  all  the  energy  that  it  requires,  and  with  net  zero  waste  generation  and
Presently,  the  institute  is  functioning  from  a  temporary  campus  in  MBM  Engineering
College, Ratanada, Jodhpur. In the forthcoming years, the institute will be shifted to its own
residential campus near Nagaur in Jodhpur. The government has acquired 872 acres of land
for the institute and the construction of the boundary wall is being completed, and so is an 33
KV  electric  substation.  An  MoU  has  been  signed  with  Arid  Forest  Research  Institute  for
designing  and  developing  an  urban  forestry  model  for  the  institute.  The  institute  has
successfully  completed the selection of the campus  master planner. It is envisioned that the
new campus of IIT Jodhpur would stand as a symbol of academic excellence while creating a
multi-cultural ethos with centers such as an Eco Village, an Arts and Culture Centre and an
International  Inter-Cultural  Activity  Centre,  all  of  which  would  contribute  to  the  holistic
development of its community.
The Board of Governors
The Finance Committee
The Building and Works Committee
List of Members of the Board of Governors
Prof. Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS)
University of Hyderabad
Department of Organic Chemistry,
Central University PO,
Hyderabad - 500 046,
Prof. Prem K. Kalra
Director, IIT Rajasthan
Old Residency Road, Ratanada,
Jodhpur – 342011
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
Mr. Ashok Thakur
Department of Higher Education,
Ministry of Human Resource Development,
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi- 110 001
Mr. K P Singh
Chairman, DLF Limited
DLF Center, Sansad Marg
New Delhi 110 001
Mr. Ashank Desai
Mastek Limited, #106/107
SDF-IV, Seepz, Andheri(E)
Mr. Mukul Kasliwal
MW Corp. pvt. Ltd.
Mumbai 400 002
State Government Nominee
Mr. Vipin Chand Sharma
Government of Rajasthan
Prof. S G Dhande
Director, IIT Kanpur
List of Members of the Finance Committee
Prof. Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS)
University of Hyderabad
Department of Organic Chemistry,
Central University PO,
Hyderabad - 500 046,
Prof. Prem K. Kalra
Director, IIT Rajasthan
Old Residency Road, Ratanada,
Jodhpur - 342011
Mr. Ashok Thakur
Department of Higher Education,
Ministry of Human Resource Development,
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi- 110 001
Mr. G S Sood
CMD National Scheduled Tribe,
NBCC Tower, Finance & Development
Hall No 1, 5th Floor, 15 Bhikaji Cama Place
New Delhi 110 066
Mr. Umesh Kumar (IAS)
Bajaj Nagar Road,
Mr. S K Ray
Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of HRD, Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi - 110001
List of Members of the Building and Works Committee
Prof. Prem K. Kalra
Director, IIT Rajasthan
Old Residency Road, Ratanada,
Jodhpur – 342011
Ms. Pratima Dikshit
Department of Technical Education,
Ministry of Human Resource Development,
New Delhi 110 001
Mr. N.M.D. Jain
ADG, CPWD (Retd.),
170, 1st Floor, Jagriti Enclave,
Ms. Usha Kasana
Public Works Department
Government of Rajasthan
Prof. Neeraj Gupta
Academic  Committee:  The  committee  co-ordinates  all  UG  programs  with  representatives
from each discipline and PG programs through the respective CoEs. Library matters also fall
under this purview.
Dr. Venkata Ramana (Coordinator)
Dr. Deepak Fulwani (Coordinator, PG Programs)
Dr. Barun Pratihar (CoE Energy)
Dr. Ambesh Dixit (CoE Energy)
Mr. Anupam Gupta (CoE ICT)
Dr. Arnab Datta (CoE ICT)
Dr. Satyabrata Adhikari (CoE SS)
Dr. Subhashish Banerjee (CoE SS)
Dr. Meenu Chhabra (CoE BISS)
Dr. Sushmita Jha (CoE BISS)
Dr. Laltu Chandra (Coordinator, Library)
Dr. Anand Plapally (International Student Exchange)
Dr. Gourishankar Hiremath
Two Student Represetatives
Dr. Rahul Chhibber (Coordinator)
Dr. Amit Mishra (WAVES)
Dr. Pradeep (NUTS)
Dr. Vidya Sarveshwaran and Dr. Sushmita Jha (Counselling Service)
Dr. S. P. Tiwari and Dr. S Harinipriya (SAGE)
Dr. Chandramouli (PROM)
Two Student Representatives
Council of Wardens: Hostels, House Allotment and Guesthouse:
Dr. Akhilesh Mohan (Chairman)
Dr. Satyabrata Adhikari
Dr. Meenu Chhabra
Dr. Sushmita Jha
Dr. Anand Plapally
Dr. Gourishankar Hiremath
Dr. Rahul Chhiber
Dr. V. Narayan
Dr. Atul Kumar
Dr. K. J. George
Dr. Ashutosh Alok
Dr. S. P. Tiwari
Placement: Student Placement and Internships
Dr. Gaurav Harit (Coordinator)
Dr. Mainak Mazumdar
Dr. Anand Plapally
Two Student Representatives
Administration: This committee deals  with  media and public relations, non-academic staff
recruitment,  RTI,  Hindi  Cell,  Health/Medical,  space  allocation,  security,  legal  cell,  finance,
stores and purchases, institute functions, outreach activities, facility management.
Dr. Rajiv Shekhar (Coordinator)
Dr. K. J. George (Security)
Dr. Anil Tiwari (Health)
Dr. Rahul Singhal (Non-academic staff recruitment)
Dr. Atul Kumar (Facility management)
Dr. Atul Dubey (Legal Cell)
Dr. M. Nagaraja (RTI)
Dr. Ashutosh Alok (Outreach)
Dr. Vivek Vijay (Media and Public)
Dr. Bibhas Adhikari (Institute Functions)
Dr. Puneet Sharma (Hindi Cell)
Dr. Tanmay Paul
Research  and  Development:  All  project  management  (consultancy,  sponsored,  testing
services,  IPR,  MoUs,  Enterpreneurship,
innovation,  workshops  and
conferences, continuing education, tech transfer.
Dr. B. Ravinda (Coordinator)
Dr. V. Narayan (Sponsored workshops)
Dr. Ravindra Arora (Policy issues)
Dr. Rakesh Sharma (Recruitment and Automation)
Dr. Sonam Melhotra (IP, MoUs, Corporate Communications)
Dr. Rakesh Saxena (Stores and Purchases)
Drs. Harinipriya and Sandeep Yadav (Incubation and Innovation)
Faculty Affairs: Faculty recruitment, probation and regularization, students feedback, CPDA
approvals, LTC and Leave, faculty meetings
Dr. Vivek Vijay (Coordinator)
Dr. Harinarayanan (CPDA)
Dr. Shalingram Tiwari (LTC and Leave)
Dr. Manish Srimali (Faculty Meetings and Students Feedback)
Dr. Ansu Louis (Faculty Exchange)
Coordinators of each CoE
Lab Development: UG and PG Labs
Dr. Sandeep Yadav (Coordinator)
Dr. Ashutosh Alok (CoE SS)
Dr. Deepak Fulwani (CoE SS)
Dr. Amit Mishra (CoE BiSS)
Dr. Meenu Chhabra (CoE BiSS)
Dr. C. M. Nagaraja (CoE Energy)
Dr. P. Pradeep (CoE Energy)
Dr. Anil Tiwari (CoE ICT)
Mr. Anupam Gupta (CoE ICT)
Dr. Rakesh Sharma (Coordinator)
Dr. C. M. Nagaraja
Dr. Atul Dubey
Dr, Ambesh Dixit
Dr. Kiran Hiremath
Dr. P. Joglekar
Dr. Gaurav Harit
President, SCHoD                                                                                        Ranjan Kumar
General Executive, SAGE                                                                        Sachin Kumar Singh
General Executive, NUTS                                                                            Shashank kumar
General Executive, MAD                                                                             Syed faizul hai
General Executive, WAWES                                                                      Akshay Hari Kumar
General Executive, PROM                                                                            Rishi Ayyer
Fourth Year Senators                                                            Krishna Sudhama and Rohit Maitri
Third Year Senators                                                        Vaibhav Gundre and Shobhit Mandloi
Second Year Senator                                                                                   Mayur Ghatge
First Year Senator                                                                                        Ashish Kumar
Girls Senator                                                                                            Geervani Soni
PG senator                                                                                              Durgesh Kumar
Centers of Excellence
R & D Projects
Undergraduate Research & Innovation Program (UGRI)
High School Summer Camp
Conferences and Workshops
Innovation & Incubation
Weekly Academic Seminars
Scholarship for Students
Foreign Language Training
Internship for Students
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur offers B.Tech. programs in the following disciplines:
1) Computer Science and Engineering
2) Electrical Engineering
3) Mechanical Engineering
4) Systems Science
The  institute  has  also  decided  to  start  a  B.  Tech.  program  and  a  minor  program  from  July
2013 in Biologically-inspired Systems Science and in Art, Culture, and Heritage respectively.
IIT Jodhpur offers two-year M.Tech. programs in the following centers:
  Centre of Excellence in Energy
  Centre of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology (ICT)
  Centre of Excellence in Systems Science (SS)
PhD Program is offered in the following three centers of excellence in IIT Rajasthan:
  Centre of Excellence in Energy
  Centre of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology (ICT)
  Centre of Excellence in Systems Science (SS)
In  addition,  the  institute  is  looking  forward  to  offering  a  PhD  program  from  July  2013  in
Biologically-inspired Systems Science.
Centers of Excellence
IIT  Jodhpur  is  committed  to  developing  state  of  the  art,  research-led  and  multidisciplinary
centres of excellence where scholars from different disciplines carry out productive research
on  emerging  and  technological,  scientific,  and  social  issues  that  characterize  the  challenges
faced  by the contemporary world. In order to promote the  inter-disciplinary  culture  in each
and  every  academic  activity,  IIT  Jodhpur  does  not  adopt  the  structure  of  establishing  the
academic departments based on the individual disciplines. Only undergraduate programs are
offered in the individual disciplines. Presently, IIT Jodhpur has five Centers of Excellence—
in  Energy,  Information  and  Communication  Technology,  Systems  Science,  Biologically-
inspired Systems Science, and Art, Culture, and Heritage—the last two of these centers were
initiated in the academic year 2011-12.
Center of Excellence in Energy
Developing  economical  and  environmentally  sustainable  energy  sources  is  imperative  for
India’s  long-term growth.  To achieve such objectives, IIT Jodhpur has developed an  inter-
disciplinary  academic  curriculum  that  will  generate  experts  in  different  facets  of  energy
generation  and  utilization  with  a  holistic,  systems-based  approach  for  solving  real-life
problems.  The  post-graduate  program  in  Energy  admits  students  from  all  branches  of
engineering and sciences.
The  academic  curriculum  has  compulsory  and  elective  components.  Compulsory  courses
expose  students  to  (i)  different  mechanical  and  electrical  processes  related  to  power
generation  and  transmission,  (ii)  physics  of  semiconductor  devices  associated  with  solar
photovoltaics,  and  (iii)  concepts  of  systems  engineering  for  designing  complex  projects  by
integrating  knowledge  from  different  sub-systems.  Extensive  laboratory  experiments  and
projects supplement the compulsory courses. The electives  allow students to choose  from a
variety  of  courses  based  on  their  interests:  solar  and  nuclear  power,  bioenergy  systems,
electrochemical  power  sources,  power  electronics,  energy  materials,  structural  dynamics,
two-phase  flow,  and  solar  refrigeration  and  air-conditioning.  Summer  bridge  courses  are
offered  to  students  immediately  after  their  admission  to  prepare  them  for  the  multi-
disciplinary compulsory courses offered in the first semester.
Research and Development
Research  and  development  efforts  focus  on  the  development  of  low-cost  technology
initiatives to implement renewable energy generation and usage through extensive  industry-
academia  collaboration.  Being  located  in  Jodhpur,  the  sun  city  of  India,  harnessing  solar
energy  for  power  generation  and  cooling/heating  has  been  the  primary  focus  of  the  R&D
efforts under the auspices of the Centre for Solar Energy Technologies (CSET).
CSET  has  been  designated  as  a  Centre  of  Excellence  in  Solar  Thermal  Energy  by  the
Ministry  of  New  and  Renewable  Energy  (MNRE),  Govt.  of  India.    IIT  Jodhpur  has
earmarked  a  200  acre  land  on  its  permanent  campus  for  creating  a  solar  park,  comprising
various technologies under one roof. The CSET will consist of (i) Solar thermal and solar PV
Technology Demonstration Units (TDUs), (ii) facilities for R&D for developing value-added
applications  of  solar  energy  technologies,  (iii)  facilities  for  testing,  calibration  and
benchmarking  for  both  solar  thermal  and  solar  PV  technologies,  and  (iv)  HRD  and
knowledge services.  CSET is geared to giving its students a vibrant, laboratory-to-plant scale
research experience.  Major grants to CSET have been received from MNRE and the Asian
The  institute  has  Memoranda  of  Understanding  (MoU)  with  AREVA,  CEA  France,  Indian
Oil  Limited,  BHEL,  Thermax,  NFTDC-Hyderabad  for  collaboration  in  R&D  in  energy.
Further, the center has Academic and Research collaboration agreements with the University
of  Waterloo,  University  of  California,  Merced,  University  of  Western  Ontario,  URV
Major Research Themes and Goals
1.  Solar absorber coatings and thermic fluids
2.  Volumetric air receivers for heat and power generation
3.  Thermal storage
4.  DC smart micro-grid
5.  Characterization of crystalline and amorphous silicon based photovoltaic power systems.
6.  Electrochemical  power  sources  and  storage  focussing  on  lithium  ion  batteries  and  fuel
7.  Hydrogen generation by water splitting
8.  Solar cooling
Associated Faculty as on 31 July 2012:
S.  Harinipriya,  Laltu  Chandra,  Pradeep  Kumar  P,  V.  Narayanan,  B.  Ravindra,  Rahul
Chhibber,    Meenu  Chhabra,  Shaligram  Tiwari,    Rakesh  K.  Sharma,  Ambesh  Dixit,  B.
Pratihar,  Vidya Sarveshwaran, Gourishankar Hiremath, Anand Plapally, Mainak Mazumdar,
The International Centre for Application of Solar Energy Technologies (ICASET) is a joint
initiative of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur, Jodhpur (IITJ).  Funding for ICASET has been provided by ADB.
Center of Excellence in Information and Communication Technology (ICT)
Education,  knowledge,  information,  and  communication  are  at  the  core of  human  progress,
endeavour,  and  well-being.  Information  and  Communication  Technology  (ICT)  has  an
immense  impact  on  virtually  all  aspects  of  our  lives.  The  rapid  progress  of  ICT  opens  up
completely  new  opportunities  to  attain  higher  levels  of  development.  For  the  first  time  in
history,  the  capacity  of  these  technologies  to  reduce  many  traditional  obstacles,  especially
those of time and distance, has been recognized in such a way that millions of people in all
corners  of  the  world  would  benefit.  Yet  this  Center of  Excellence  holds  the  view that  ICT
should  be  regarded  as  a  tool  and  not  as  an  end  in  itself.  Under  favourable  conditions,  the
technology  can  be  a  powerful  instrument,  increasing  productivity,  generating  economic
growth, job creation and employability, and also improving the quality of life of all.
The  CoE  in  ICT  strives  for  "Functionality  and  Cost-Driven"  Research  and  Development.
Here, capturing the requirements and specifying the functionality of the devices/technologies
is the starting point of any problem statement. The primary focus is on carrying out research
on  low-cost  device  design  and  developing  technology  to  fulfil  the  increasing  social
requirements.  From  a  technological  standpoint,  we  lay  emphasis  on  Embedded  Design,
System  Integration  and  Hardware  Benchmarking.  The  above  mentioned  theme  sets  the
following set of research areas and goals for us.
Major Goals of the Center
to harness the potential of recent technological advances to solve the existing socio-
economic and environmental problems.
to turn the digital divide into a digital opportunity for all by means of functionality
driven low-cost hardware design.
to develop a breeding ground for learners, developers, contributors, entrepreneurs and
to work in the direction of building an inclusive society with the participation of
government, private sector, and international organizations.
  Developing low-cost networking solutions - cheaper internet everywhere.
  Developing low-cost access devices.
  Developing low-cost e-Healthcare solutions.
o  Computer Vision/ Signal Processing/ Medical Imaging
  Hardware Design and Benchmarking.
o  Embedded Systems
  Low cost Access Devices for Education/Health Monitoring
o  Micro/ Nano-Electronics
  EDA tools
Instrumentation and Testing
o  Robotics and Automation
  Sustaining environment through ICT.
  Networks/ Sensor Networks
The  CoE-ICT  is  an  inter-disciplinary  venture.  It  hosts  the  top-notch  scientists  with  a
background  ranging  from  Mathematical  Sciences,  Natural  Sciences  to  applied  fields  of
Systems Engineering, and other disciplines of Engineering. It works to solve social problems,
and these problems are highly inter-disciplinary in nature.
The  center  started  M.  Tech.  Program  in  ICT  in  the  academic  year  2011-12.  Twenty-six
students were admitted to the program. Thirteen  PhD  students also  joined the center in this
academic year. The center also initiated two laboratories—Networking Technologies Lab and
SOC Lab. The center’s achievements include providing the right hardware and software tools
for  many  industry  consultancy  projects,  including  the  development  of  DRM/DRM+  IP  for
digital radio standards.
Associated Faculty as on 31 July 2012:
Akhilesh Mohan, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Arnab Datta, Gaurav Harit, Sandeep Kumar Yadav,
Shanmuganathan Raman, Shree Prakash Tiwari, VenkataRamana Badarla
Center of Excellence in Systems Science
The  Center  of  Excellence  in  Systems  Science  (SS)  at IIT  Jodhpur  was  initiated  in  the  year
2010  after  the  institute’s  arrival  in  Jodhpur.  It  was  after  almost  one  year  of  brain-storming
that  the  CoE  formally  established  in  May  2011  to  promote  interdisciplinary  academic
programs and research with a holistic Systems Thinking approach. The methodologies of the
Systems  Science  provide  ways  to  address  complex  problems  that  are  specific  and  local  in
nature, while taking into account the broad context of such problems. These methods enable
investigators  to  examine  the  dynamic  interrelationship  of  variables  at  multiple  levels  of
analysis  simultaneously,  while  also  studying  the  impact  on  the  behavior  of  the  system  as  a
whole  over  time.  They  are  also  useful  for  understanding  certain  properties  of  complex
phenomena,  which  may  not  be  apparent  from  studying  the  individual  parts  of  the
phenomenon. Specific  examples  of  systems  science  methodologies  include,  but  are  not
limited  to:  systems  dynamics  modeling,  agent  based  modeling,  discrete  event  simulation,
network  analysis,  dynamic  micro  simulation  modeling,  Markov  modeling,  behavioral
approach  to  systems  etc.  Such  tools  have  proven  heuristic  power, typically  integrating  data
from  multiple  prior  studies  and  surveillance  systems,  and  can  offer  innovative  solutions  to
seemingly  intractable problems. Many system  modeling  methodologies are  not new and are
now used routinely in fields such as corporate management, economics, engineering, physics,
energy, ecology, biology, and many others precisely because these methods add more value
than alternative techniques or unaided decision-making.
Given  the  wide  scope  and  applicability  of  System  Science,  the  center  has  identified  certain
key focal areas in its research agenda:
1)  Evaluate  the  cost  effectiveness  of  the  engineered  systems  and  manufacturing
processes that are becoming increasingly complex
2)  Develop rigorous mathematical frameworks that give a deeper insight into a lot of
interesting and complex problems in natural sciences
3)  Investigate the isomorphy of ideas, laws, and models in various fields of science
4)   Develop  new  methods  for  the  forecasting  and  quantification  of  uncertainties  in
lieu  of  societal  concerns  that  have  led  to  regulatory  actions  for  more  stringent
requirements for the safety and reliability of products demand
5)  Process large scale data in order to extract better information and knowledge.
However, keeping  in  mind  factors such as the emerging challenges  for the Indian economy
due to globalization, the growing concern for sustainable development because of the limited
availability  of  resources,  and  the  increasing  sensitivity  to  anthropogenic  effects  on  the
environment, the CoE would also continually analyze and evaluate its activities in a broader
social context, over and above the basic concerns presented above.
The major Research Theme of SS at present include
1)  Signals, Systems and Control Theory
2)  Linear and Non-Linear Dynamical System
3)  Systems Reliability, Security and Risk Management
4)  Social and Economic System and its Dynamics
5)  Complex Networks
6)  System Application in Business and Industry
7)  Mathematical Physics and Cosmology
8)  Quantum Physics and Quantum Information
9)  Mechatronics, Systems integration and Design
10) Financial Systems and Econometrics
11) Computational Finance
Since  one  of  the  principal  objectives  of  the  CoE  is  to  undertake  cutting-edge  research,  the
center has developed curriculum in System Science to provide high quality academic training
to students and make them distinguished scholars in the field of SS. To fulfill this objective
the center offers BTech, MTech, and PhD program in Systems Science. The curriculum of B.
Tech.  program  has  been  developed  after  conducting  several  brain-storming  sessions  or
‘discussions hours’ organized regularly in the year 2011. After few rounds of discussions the
present curriculum for B. Tech. was finalized in the brain-storming session organized during
December 9 to 10th 2011. Several Experts from reputed industries and distinguished scholars
from  various  academics  institutes  in  India  were  invited  in  these  sessions  to  develop  a
coherent and  balanced curriculum  for B. Tech. and M. Tech. programs keeping  in  view the
requirement  of  the  industry  and  what  is  state-of-the-art  in  SS  discipline.  Additionally,  the
core members of SS, Dr. Bibhas Adhikari, Dr. Vivek Vijay, Dr B. Ravindra and Mr. Anupam
Gupta,  visited  various  reputed  Universities  of  Canada  including  the  University  of  Western
Ontario, the University of Concordia, the University of Waterloo, the University of Manitoba
and the University of British Columbia to get expert opinion on the curriculum developed for
SS and to fine tune  it with the  international standard. Further, in the workshop on Systems
Science: Complex Networks & Applications, conducted from May 7 – 9, 2012 the course
curriculum  of  M.  Tech.  and  PhD  Program  was  further  debated  and  discussed  before  it  was
finalized and launched. Given the inter-disciplinary nature of the subject, the SS center of IIT
Jodhpur  has  an  agglomeration  of  faculty  members  from  various  disciplines  such  as
Mathematics,  Physics,  Chemistry,  Economics,  System  &  Control,  Mechanical  Engineering
Associated Faculty Members as on 31 July 2012
Ashutosh  Kumar  Alok,  Atul  Kumar,  Bibhas  Adhikari,  Kirankumar  Rajshekhar  Hiremath,
Mainak  Mazumdar,  Puneet  Sharma,  Pushkar  Shripad  Joglekar,  Rakesh  Kumar  Sharma
Satyabrata  Adhikari,  Subhashish  Banerjee,  Vivek  Vijayvargiya,  and  V.V.M.  Sarma
Center of Excellence in Biologically-inspired Systems Science (BiSS)
The Board of Governors of IIT Jodhpur in its 5th meeting held on 13th September, 2011 has
approved  B.  Tech,  M.  Tech,  and  PhD  programs  in  Biologically-inspired  Systems  Science
(BiSS). This unique Center of Excellence initiated during the academic year 2011-2012 with
the broad objective to design novel, adaptive and sustainable technological solutions inspired
by  biological  systems  and  processes.  Nature  is  the  most  efficient  engineer  and  biological
organisms  are  the  best  engineered  systems.  Understanding  biological  systems  helps  an
engineer design adaptive intelligent systems for the ever changing environmental conditions.
Graduates of the center will  interface different disciplines such as humanities, and physical,
engineering  and  life  sciences.  Such  interdisciplinary  approach  aims  to  promote  innovation
and a holistic approach toward developing technological solutions.
The  center  aspires  to  create  21st  century  creative  thinkers  equipped  with  core  strengths  in
engineering, biology, and humanities for the exploration of the ever fascinating phenomenon
of  cognition  and  consciousness  considered  unique  to  living  organisms.  Unravelling  the
mystery  behind  the  phenomenon  of  cognition  and  consciousness  would  help  develop
Intelligent Systems capable of interfacing with humans.
Keeping in view the vision and mission of IIT Jodhpur, the center invited educationalists and
researchers  from  all  over  the  world  to  give  suggestions  for  designing  the  most  compatible
undergraduate and postgraduate course modules for BISS during the academic year 2011-12.
Brainstorming  sessions  were  organized  in  the  forms  of  an  international  workshop  in
Biologically  Inspired  Systems  Science  (March  1-3,  2012)  and  individual  lectures  from
experts in the area. The course curriculum was designed based on the feedback received from
Concept Note and Course Curriculum
Major Research Themes and Initiatives
1.  information processing in the brain
2.  cognitive processes
3.  emergent phenomenon of consciousness
4.  bio-inspired modelling and designing, algorithms, mechanics, real world applications
5.  BiSS spans many levels of analysis, from low-level learning and decision mechanisms
to high-level logic and planning, from neural circuitry to modular brain organization
6.  Bio-signal Processing
7.  Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience and Computational Neuroscience.
The CoE BiSS is looking forward to offering a four year bachelor (B. Tech.) program and a
doctoral program starting from July 2013.
Associated Members as on 31 July 2012
Manish Srimali, Meenu Chhabra, Hari Narayan V., K. J. George, Sushmita Jha, Amit Mishra,
Sonam Malhotra, Ansu Louis
Center of Art, Culture, and Heritage (COACH)
IIT Jodhpur has begun preparation for a Center of Art, Culture, and Heritage in the academic
year  2011-2012.  This  is  a  calculated  move  to  decipher  and  advance  the  world  of  the  art,
culture, and heritage, especially of those belonging to indigenous traditions. On this score, an
ambitious but cautious plan is being chalked out in the form of programs, educational courses
and workshops that can educate the global public at this proposed center.
a.  To offer a minor in art, culture and heritage including 8 inter-disciplinary
courses. This will become a platform for establishing the center of art, culture,
and heritage with various academic programs
b.  To improve understanding of and intervene (from an appropriate
interdisciplinary perspective) in  the dynamics of the fields of art, culture, and
c.  To ensure the sustainability of Indian art culture and  heritage by
identification, conservation and promotion of required research and its
economic value nationally and globally through mutually beneficial
d.   To bridge, in an unconventional manner, the perennial gap between the arts
and the sciences
1. To evolve  novel  strategies  in order to offer artistic and technologically  integrated
educational  platforms  in  the  field  of  art,  culture  and  heritage  utilizing  inter-
2.  To  establish  training  facilities  and  impart  knowledge  in  the  field  of  music,
literature,  archeology  and  visual  arts  to  all,  irrespective  of  social,  national  and
3. To establish state-of-the-art performance and research facilities in preservation with
special reference to traditional art forms, rare human vocal and performing skills and
architecture  blending  it  with  scientific  technology  and  perform  research  and
4. To develop policies and resources for reliable re-engineering of traditional devices
and  methods.  The  center  will  basically  aim  to  rehabilitate  as  well  as  encourage
societies performing art of any kind.
7. To improve the communication between art, cultural aspects and technology.
Among the challenges are establishing revival practices, sustainable space for imaginations in
art and technology synergy, creating  novel minds who can assimilate this synergy, increasing
literacy  of  art,  and  encouraging  artists  to  present  and  popularize  art  using  the  state  of  art
technology.  By  bridging  the  gap  between  arts  and  science,  COACH  supports  experimental
projects  and  interacts  with  established  national  and  international  institutions  of  art  and
science to collaborate on education and research. The outline of the proposed COACH can be
illustrated as follows.
Figure 1: Representation of various aspects to be covered under COACH.
MoUs between IIT Rajasthan and International and National Institutions and Agencies
1.  University of Western Ontario, Canada (09/08/2010)
To  explore  the  possibilities  for  cooperation  in  education,  training,  and  research  and
also  to  encourage  direct  contact  and  mutual  cooperation  between  faculty  members,
departments, and research centers
2.   Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29/08/2010)
Development of  mutually  beneficial academic program and courses; coordination of
academic staff travel for the purposes of teaching, research, and training; cooperation
of student mobility program for study, research, and for joint academic activities such
as research publications, conferences and  symposia; exchange of documentation and
research  materials  in  the  field  of  mutual  interest  provided  that  there  are  no  legal
barriers  against  exchange  and  collaboration  in  international  master’s  and  doctoral
programs between both the institutions
3.  The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives France
Cooperation in the areas of solar energy research, such as Concentrated Solar Power
(CSP) and Concentrated Photovoltic (CPV), water production by using solar energy,
renewable  energy  storage  and  smart  management,  integration  of  solar  energies  and
energy efficiency in buildings
4.  University of Waterloo, Canada (25/11/2010)
Collaborative  measures  to  foster  international  experience  and  advancement  of
knowledge  on  the  basis  of  reciprocity,  mutual  benefit,  interaction  and  exchange  of
students in graduate programs
5.  University of Manitoba, Canada (09/12/2010)
Development  of  mutually  beneficial  programs  for  student  internships  and  graduate
study  in  order  to  provide  students  opportunities  for  advancement  of  knowledge  and
6.  Embassy of France in India (28/03/2011)
For exploring prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French language
7.  University of California, Merced (26/04/2011)
Development of  mutually  beneficial relationships for promoting academic exchange,
scholarly  cooperation,  and  collaborations  under  mutually  agreeable  terms  and
conditions:  the  exchange  of  faculty  members,  scientists  and  students  and  scientific
material,  access  to  library  resources,  pursuit  of  joint  meetings,  symposia  and/or
conferences and access to laboratories as may be appropriate and feasible in the two
8.  Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15-08-2011)
Development of sheltering belt plantation as urban forestry model for at a selected site
at IIT Jodhpur
9.  Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28/02/2012)
To  promote  academic  exchanges  in  fields  where  each  party  needs  to  enhance  its
educational  and  academic  programs:
implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures and education and
exchange  of  scholars,  researchers,  and  administrative  staff;  exchange  of  information
in  fields  which  are  of  interest  to  both  parties  and  exchange  of  graduate  students  in
fields of interest to both parties
the  academic  exchanges  will
MoUs with Industries
1.  National Instruments (NI) Systems (India) Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore (dated
National  Instruments  and  IIT  Jodhpur  work  together  through  research  and
development  to  develop  the  Institute  as  well-recognized  center  of  excellence  in  the
fields  of  wireless  communication  and  physical  layer  technologies.  Furthermore,
National Instruments, being the supplier of computer-based instrumentation hardware
and software product developed by its affiliated both from the academia and industry,
expressed  its  desire  to  establish  a  graphical  system  design  center  for  students  and
professionals across the nation.
2.  Areva Renouvelable, France (dated 06/12/2010)
Cooperation  in  R&D  area,  such  as  characterization  of  reflector,  dirtying  rates  and
soiling  materials  in  relationship  with  local  air  quality;  development  of  a  DNI
measurement  survey  laboratory  and  techniques  for  assaying  the  date  to  predict  and
optimize CSP performance; clouds detection and anticipation methods and techniques
to adapt CSP process control operating conditions for maximizing energy production;
development  of  a  testing  and  bench  marking  laboratory  for  solar  systems  with  due
attention to Areva Renouvelable technology in the Indian context
3.  C-Wet and SRRA (dated 10/05/2011)
Collaboration in establishing a solar radiation resource assessment station
4.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Limites (BHEL), Indian Oil Corporation Limited
(IOC) (dated 17/10/2011)
Collaborate for the promotion of research, innovation, and education and providing a
model  for  industry-academia  partnership  in  the  following  broad  objectives:  Basic
research in solar energy and up-scaling performance validation of solar technologies
5.  ITI Limited (dated 16/12/2011)
To  introduce  co-operative  development  and  research  in  areas  such  as  Optical
space  Optical  communication,  Encryption
technologies,  embedded  systems,  SCADA  and  NMS  system,  and  radio  and
6.  Amaitha Wireless Technologies (dated 02/02/2012)
Cooperation  in  the  conceptualization,  design  and  development  of  computing,
communication, and converged devices associated software and required functionality
affordable in optimum cost
7.  Quad Electronics Private Limited ( dated 14/01/2012)
Cooperation in research and development computing and communication devices that
can be of interest to the entire population and can serve to bridge digital divide of
8.  Steag Energy Services (SESI) (dated 23-04-2012)
Mutual  agreement  for  the  development  of  a  dynamic  solar  thermal  simulator  and
collaboration for research and training on the solar thermal simulator
During the academic year 2011-2012, representatives of several leading academic institutions
have  visited  IIT  Jodhpur  seeking  collaboration  in  matters  related  to  teaching  and  research.
The visitors included:
Prof. Vipin Kumar (Oct. 27-29, 2011)
Department of Mechanical Engineering
University of Washington.
Prof. Vimal Chaitanya (Nov. 17, 2011)
Vice President of Research
New Mexico State University.
Prof. Jonathan, B. and Prof. J. P. Burak (Feb. 20-23, 2012)
Dean of Faculty of Engineering
University of Manitoba.
Prof. S. Shariq (Feb 07, 2012)
Director, Project on Knowledge, Beliefs, and Institutions
School of Human. and Sciences
List of R&D Projects
Creation of Virtual
Class-Rooms at IITs
Low Cost Access-cum-
The Village Community
Development and Pilot
Roll out Plan for Low
Networks for Rural
Areas of India
Introduction to High
Development of Low
Cost Mobile Robots -
Robotics for Education
Analysis and Indexing
Tools for Harnessing
Prof. P K
Kalra, Dr. K
S Daya (DEI)
Prof. P K
Kalra, Dr. S
(I) Pvt. Ltd.,
Cross MAC & PHY
Language, Cognition &
the Human Mind
Design Study for
One Stop Educational
Characterization of E3
Ubiquitin Ligases and
(I) Pvt. Ltd.,
Prof. P K
of Science &
Establishment of the
Centre of Excellence in
Solar Thermal Research
Study of Aligned
(I) Pvt. Ltd.,
(I) Pvt. Ltd.,
Generation, Storage and
Distribution of Solar
of Science &
Nuclear Reactor Design
Pertaining to NRFCC
2 years 3
Synthesis and Anion
Photovoltaic Plant to
of Science &
Undergraduate Research & Innovation Program (UGRI- 2012)
Indian  Institute of  Technology  Jodhpur  started the  Undergraduate  Research  and  Innovation
(UGRI)  program  in  2011  with  the  objective  to  promote  research  and  innovation  among  a
diverse  group of  undergraduate  students. This  programme  continued  in  summer  of  2012  to
help  selected  students  improve  their  professional  knowledge  and  skills. Students  across  the
country  were  encouraged  to  utilize  the  UGRI  program  for  their  academic  and  professional
developments. This year the institute received nearly 730 applications, four times more than
those received in the previous year. Best 29 students had been selected from this large pool of
applications  for  the  UGRI  2012.  Students  were  selected  purely  on  the  basis  of  academic
achievements  and  the  merit  of  the  proposal  submitted,  whether  it  be  a  theoretical  (system
design, algorithm development etc.) or an experimental one.
This year’s UGRI program began on May 8, 2012 and end on July 20, 2012 (for the duration
of  10  weeks).  Selected  students  were  provided  accommodation  at  student  hostel  in  IITJ.
During  this  period,  a  remuneration  of  Rs.  8000  per  month  was  offered  as  Financial
Assistance.  Furthermore, the  students  received  an  additional  Rs.  2000  for  preparing  posters
and interim reports. The students worked on projects related to Energy, Health, Environment,
and ICT (Information, Communication and Technologies).
High School Summer Camp
During summer IIT Jodhpur invites applications from senior secondary students (Class XI or
XII)  from  schools  in  Jodhpur  with  an  intention  to  nurture  their  curiosity  to  know  the
unknown. In so doing, the faculty  members of the  institute answer their queries and expose
them to state-of-the-art technologies. The students having marksheet of class X are eligible to
apply and a certificate of completion is awarded to each participating candidate.
In the summer of 2012, twenty one students were selected through a screening process based
mainly on their X class academic records. The selected students spent almost one  month at
IIT Jodhpur—  from 2 to 30 June—participating  in  lectures, workshops, lab  sessions, group
works and  field  visits. At the end of the program, all these  students participated  in a poster
presentation  which  displayed  the  learning  they  have  received  during  their  stay  here  at  IIT
Conferences and Workshops
International Workshop in Biologically-inspired System Science
1-3 March 2012
The new Center of Excellence Biologically-inspired Systems Science (BiSS) conducted this
international workshop to get international  feedback on the proposed academic programs of
the center and to design an appropriate curriculum based on the response. The center sought
to offer B. Tech. (4 year), M. Tech. (two year), and PhD courses in areas such as information
processing in brain and its translation into real-world challenges, utilization of the knowledge
of  evolutionary  adaptations  for  the  improvement  of  already  existing  systems,  and  related
The following were the broad areas of discussion at the workshop:
  Artificial Intelligence and Biologically-inspired Systems
  Basic Sciences
  Bio-devices and Diagnostics
  Body-Brain-Mind and Society
  Language understanding and Language evolution
  Natural Computation
  Neural Engineering
  Philosophical and theological perspectives of Biologically-inspired Systems
  Psychology and Biologically Inspired Systems
  Quantum Physics towards understanding of Biologically-inspired Systems
The  participants  included  Prof.  Theodore  W.  Berger,  Prof.  Christopher  James  Davia,  Jean-
Pierre Jourdan, and Dr. Anirban Bandyopadhyay.
All  participants  appreciated  the  unique  approach  of  the  center  to  integrate  different
disciplines  of  engineering,  science,  and  humanities.  Based  on  the  expert  feedback  the
proposed curriculum was modified.
Workshop on Systems Science: Complex Networks and Applications
07-09 May 2012
IIT  Jodhpur  organized  this  workshop  to  explore  recent  trends  in  complex  network  and  to
make a bridge between academia and industry. The workshop provided a broad overview of
the area with illustrative applications from various fields.
Major Topics of Discussion were the following:
  Complex Networks: Theory and Applications
  Random Graphs and Complex Networks
  Topology and Dynamics of Complex Networks
  Evolutionary Dynamics on Complex Networks
Information and Communication Networks
  Social Networks, Biological Networks, etc
Delegates  from  Industries  and  R&D  organizations  and  Researchers/Academicians  from  all
over  the  India  participated  in  the  workshop.  Through  lectures,  presentation  of  case  studies
and  interactive  sessions,  participants  were  be  exposed  to  the  emerging  field  of  complex
Innovation and Incubation Center
Established in August 2011, the Innovation and Incubation Center, under the name I.D.E.A.S.
(Innovators  Destination  for  Entrepreneurship  and  Amelioration  of  Society),  of  IIT  Jodhpur
seeks to provide a continuous momentum towards promoting innovation in entrepreneurship.
I.D.E.A.S. has entered into collaboration with the State Government of Rajasthan for the next
The Innovation and Incubation Center of IIT Jodhpur seeks to provide continuous momentum
toward  promoting  innovation  in  entrepreneurship.  IIT  Jodhpur  seeks  to  be  an  academic
incubator  and  provides  support  to  students  in  developing  business  ideas  that  address  the
unattended issues prevalent in our society. It aims to provide young talented students with a
platform where they can bring forward their ideas in the field of science and engineering and
showcase  the  same  to  industry  experts  to  get  their  assistance  in  developing  a  model.  The
center intends to nurture young minds and help their ideas gain ground through channelized
guidance  and  mentorship  by  industry  experts.  We  wish  to  give  engineering  students  and
industry  practitioners  an  opportunity  to  interact  and  build  a  community  of  innovative
“Analog MOS Design using EDA Tools”
This  3-Credit  Lab-oriented  winter  course  for  2nd/3rd  year  EE  students  of  IIT  Jodhpur  was
floated by CEERI Scientists from 7 to 20 December 2011. The course deals with the analysis
and design of analog MOS circuits and aims to expose the  students to the Cadence  Analog
CAD Tools environment. Starting with an introduction to MOS transistor simulation models,
through  a  detailed  treatment  including  physical  design  of  various  amplifier  configurations,
current  sources/mirrors  and  output  stages;  the course  leads  to the  physical  layout  design  of
MOS Operational  Amplifiers using  Cadence EDA Tools. Participating experts  included Dr.
S. C. Bose, Dr. A. Karmakar, Mr. Anil  K. Saini,  Mr. G. Rajahari,  Mr. M. Santosh and Mr.
Kanu C. Behera.
Water, Sustainability and Sensor Networks
The winter course was open to Electrical Engineering and Computer Science students in their
5th or 7th semester of B.Tech and students in the first semester of M.Tech in Information and
Communication  Technology.  Course  modules  included  Wireless  Sensor  Networks  and  NI
platform and Water sustainability issues with Wireless sensor networks. Instructors were Dr.
Venkata Ramana, Dr. Sandeep Yadav, Mr. Abhay Samant (NI), Mr. Bandan Jot (NI), and Dr.
Tom  Harmon  and  Mr.  Michael  from  UC  Merced.  The  course  had  accompanying  field
activities involving actively work with several types of soil and water sensors in a convenient
location outside of the classroom, learning the techniques for launching, installing the sensors
as well as acquiring and interpreting the data.
Designing and Operating a Sustainable Campus
The objective of this winter course was to introduce the concept of sustainability to students
so  that  they  could  integrate  these  principles  in  their  designs  and  careers.  This  course
introduced  the  class  to  the  relevance  of  sustainability  and  to  several  campus  sustainability
models.  These  models  were  highlighted  by  three  case  studies.  The  students  were  asked  to
apply  the  models  and  case  studies  in  planning  the  IIT  Jodhpur  sustainable  campus.  The
students  were  then  introduced  to  the  principles  of  facility  layout,  buildings  and  systems,
energy  and  utilities,  and  landscaping  from  a  sustainability  perspective.  The  students  could
utilize this material to design the IIT Jodhpur campus in terms of facility layout, facilities and
systems,  energy  and  utilities,  and  landscaping.  Finally  the  students  presented  their  IIT
Jodhpur  sustainable  campus  designs.  The  course  instructors  were  Herb  Debban  (Associate
Laboratory Director, Oak Ridge National Laboratory) and Anil Dewan (Professor, School of
Planning and Architecture, IP Estate, New Delhi).
The  objective  of  this  summer  course  (2012)  was  to  equip  the  students  appreciate  how
linguistic  capacity  can  be  treated  as  arising  out of  overall  cognitive  capacity.  This  involves
challenging  many  of  the  ingrained  notions  concerning  meaning,  reason,  imagination,
understanding  etc.  This  can  help  students  realize  how  the  capacities  that  human  beings  are
endowed  with  are  continuous  with  the  capacities  found  in  the  natural  world.  Such  an
understanding  can  help  in  developing  a  new  orientation  towards  some  fundamental  issues
concerning  self,  life  and  nature.  The  course  addressed  the  problem  of  meaning,  cognitive
semantics versus truth conditional semantics, understanding categories, gestalt structure as a
constraint on meaning,  Metaphorical projection of image schemata, imagination and reason,
the  emergence  of  meaning  through  schematic  structures,  the  role  of  the  Unconscious  in
cognitive processing, and Embodied Realism. Course instructor was Dr. Hari Narayanan V.
English and Basic Language Skills
This twenty hour course was offered in the summer of 2012 by Dr. Ansu Louis. The course
focused on the four language skills: speaking, listening, reading, and writing. The objectives
of the course were to help students gain confidence in using English, develop ability to speak
with  greater  confidence,  fluency,  and  precision,  increase  active  vocabulary,  write  clearly,
concisely,  and  correctly  in  English,  improve  listening  and  comprehension  skills,  attain
mastery over the basics of English pronunciation. To improve the basic language skills of the
students, especially for improving their vocabulary and pronunciation, the language lab of the
institute was made extensive use of during the course.
The  summer  course  offered  by  Dr.  K.  J.  George  sought  to  unveil  major  ethical  issues
concerning  life. To be precise, the course addressed  itself to the ethical, social and political
problems  that  arise  out  of  recent  advancements  in  the  life  sciences  and  technology.  Four
overlapping areas, namely, i) life-saving technologies at the beginning and end of life, ii) life-
enhancing technologies to improve the quality of life, iii) reproductive technologies, and iv)
technologies  that  deal  with  genetic  engineering,  were  ethically  analyzed.  In  addition  to  the
issues that are related to human life, due attention was given to the bioethical concerns over
animal life and other forms of life that exist in the biosphere/ecosphere.
Weekly Academic Seminars
The  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Jodhpur  nurtures  a  distinct  vision  of  achieving
conglomeration  among  diverse  academic  spaces  resulting  in  congruity  between technology,
society, and humanity. Beyond the constrained frame of the graduate curriculum, the institute
envisions the  holistic development of students along with their attaining of a deeper  insight
into  manifold  academic  disciplines.    From  the  academic  year  2011-2012,  the  institute  has
been conducting three kinds of weekly academic  seminars. To provide students exposure to
cutting  edge  research,  recent  developments  in  industrial  and  business  sectors,  social  work,
arts  and  culture,  the  institute  conducts  Institute  Seminars  by  renowned  professionals  and
experts in different fields. To promote interdisciplinary research and interaction between and
among faculty members and students, the faculty members present and discuss their research
interests  at  weekly  faculty  seminars.  And  to  provide  students  and  faculty  a  platform  to
present their insights and recent academic activities, each CoE has its own weekly seminars.
Scholarship for Students
IIT  Jodhpur  awards  Merit-Cum-Means  (MCM)  scholarship  to  the  undergraduate  students
belonging to General and OBC categories. The selection is based on both merit and parental
income.  Any  student  with  a  parental  income  of  less  than  Rs.  4.5  lakhs  per  annum  may  be
eligible  for  the  scholarship.  MCM  scholarship  involves  full  tuition  fee  waiver  and  an
additional amount of Rs 1000/-per month. In the academic year 2011-2012
Students  belonging  to  SC/ST  categories  are  given,  in  addition  to  tuition  fee  waiver,
exemption  from  hostel  dues  (both  mess  and  room  charges)  and  a  pocket  allowance  of  Rs.
250/-per month. In the academic year 2011-2012, 30 MCM scholarships were awarded in the
GEN/OBC  category,  and  8  in  the  SC/ST  category.  And  24  free  tuitionships  were  also
Foreign Language Training
With support from the French Embassy, IIT Jodhpur offers a zero credit compulsory course
in  French  language  for  first  year  students.  Furthermore, the  state-of-the-art  language  lab  of
the institute could now help students in learning major foreign languages.
Internships of Students
Students  do  an  eight-week  summer  training  in  reputed organizations,  in  India  or  abroad.  In
the  previous  academic  year  more  than  half  of  our  students  were  placed  for  summer
internships  in  several  reputed  companies.  And  some  have  been  participating  in  research
projects  at  universities  in  USA,  Canada,  Switzerland,  Japan  and  Ireland.  We  had  students
participating in research projects in other IITs as well.
Institute / Organization
The Energy & Resources
Solar Biomass Hybrid
Cooling Cum Power
Fatigue testing of
components and strain
loading, Noise & vibration
testing of engine and tractor
Clustering on data points
Nuclear Power Corporation
Bubble Size Measurement
Design and Development of
Single Phase SPWM Inverter
Reduction in Tool Inventory
Eicher Engines Alwar
North Central Railways,
Patratu Thermal Power Plant,
Escorts Agri Machinery
Fatigue testing of
components and strain
loading, Noise & vibration
testing of engine and tractor
Ravi Kiran Godgu
Spatio Temporal Datamining
Electronics For You
Designing Low-Cost AVR
Development Board Sun-
Tracker with Angle Display
Bokaro Thermal Power Plant
Power Generation Training
SC/ST and OBC Cell
Presently,  the  institute  functions  from  a  temporary  campus  at  Ratanada,  in  Jodhpur,
Rajasthan.    The  campus  has  three  blocks,  Administrative  Block,  Academic  Block-I,  and
Academic  Block-II.  In  addition  to  the  major  administrative  offices  of  the  institute,  a  few
laboratories are situated in the Administrative Block. In Academic Block-I are located several
laboratories,  computer  center,  and  central  library.  Academic  Block-II  has  several  halls  for
lectures, tutorial rooms, language laboratory, and cabins for PhD students. The campus also
has  mess  facilities  for  students.  The  institute  has  already  procured  all  the  basic  facilities
required for its effective functioning and is consistently in the course of further development.
The  residential  area  of  IIT  Jodhpur  is  situated  by  the  New  Pali  Road  in  the  outskirts  of
Jodhpur  city.  The  area  is  divided  into  several  student  hostels,  residential  apartments  of  the
Director, faculty, and staff, VVIP guest house, visitors’ hostels etc. Round the clock security
services  keep  the  residential  area  safe  and  secure.  A  well-equipped  health  center  also
functions here. In addition, the students enjoy facilities for both indoor and outdoor games at
The residential area has a computer center and all hostels are Wi-Fi enabled. And there is also
a library, television rooms, and student activity center to hosts several events. Moreover, the
residential  complex  also  houses  several  students-run  clubs  which  nurture  the  creativity  of
students and initiate the celebration of several festivals. Also, one of the two student messes
of  IIT  Jodhpur  function  here  (the  other  one  in  the  academic  area).  The  mess  offers  good
quality  food  at  very  affordable  rates.  The  messes  are  regularly  monitored  by  wardens  to
ensure hygiene and nutritional value.
The  residential  campus  has  a  fully  equipped  visitors’  hostel  which  provides  boarding  and
lodging  facilities  for  all  the  institute’s  guests,  parents  and  guardians  of  students,  and  newly
appointed faculty members. All rooms are air conditioned. The residential area has a branch
of State Bank of India with an ATM counter.  The institute has a bus service running between
the Residential and Academic areas at regular intervals, exclusively for the students, faculty,
and  staff  of  the  institute.   And  shops  catering  to various  needs  of  the  students, two  general
stores, one medical store, stationery, and a mobile phone accessories store operate in front of
the residential area.
In  the  forthcoming  years,  the  institute  will  be  shifted  to  its  own  residential  campus  near
Nagaur in Jodhpur. The government has acquired 872 acres of land for the institute and the
construction of the boundary wall is being completed, and so is the 33 KV electric substation.
An MoU has been signed with Arid Forest Research Institute for designing and developing an
urban forestry model for the institute. The institute has successfully completed the selection
of  the  campus  master  planner.  It  is  envisioned  that  the  new  campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur  would
stand as a symbol of academic excellence while  creating a  multi-cultural ethos with centers
such  as  an  Eco  Village,  an  Arts  and  Culture  Centre  and  an  International  Inter-Cultural
Activity Centre, all of which would contribute to a holistic development of its community.
The institute has a state-of-the-art computer center, presently running on a gigabit LAN with
1Gbps  internet  bandwidth.  It  provides  all  computing  facilities  for  students  and  staff.  There
are several terminals running on Windows and GNU/Linux operating systems. The computer
center  provides  access  to  several  licensed  softwares  like  Matlab,  Mathematica,  Cadence,
Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD, Solidworks etc. 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi  is enabled  in  both the
academic area and residential area, the computer centre hosts a high performance computing
cluster for scientific research.
  Windows Lab - 36 Terminals
  Linux Lab - 70 Terminals
  Computer Centre for Residential Complex
  6 TF, 520 Core High Performance Computing (HPC) Cluster from Fujitsu
  Dell Power-Edge R810/R910 Servers – 6
  802.11 b/g/n Wireless and 1 Gbps wired LAN intranet and 1 Gbps Internet
connectivity at Residential Complex for all residents.
  802.11 b/g/n Wireless and 1 GBPS wired LAN at Institute’s Academic and Admin
Complex with 1 GBPS Internet bandwidth
  WPA-2 Enterprise Wireless Network.
The  library  supports  all  teaching  and  research  activities  of  the  institute  by  facilitating-
acquisition,  organization,  and  dissemination  of  knowledge  resources,  and  also  providing
library  and  information  services  to  IIT  Jodhpur  community  at  large.  It  is  located  on  the
ground  floor in room  nos. 1001 and 1011, Academic  Block I of the  academic  campus of
IIT Jodhpur. The Library works under the guidance of the Institute’s Library Committee.
The  library operations are completely computerized. Online catalogues and recourses can
be accessed in both academic and residential campuses.
Books: The library has a collection of more than 8000 volumes of books. These include the
textbooks, reference & research materials and a book bank. E-books can be accessed through
the library- website and catalogue.
Number of books added during 2011-12
Residential Area Library
Total no. of books added during 2011-12  2019
Journals  &  Databases:  The
journals/databases from various sources.
to  a  wide
range  of  scholarly
The library also subscribes to some of the popular magazines and newspapers.
Digital  Library  Facility:  The  library  extension  in  room  no.  1011  serves  as  the  digital
library  with  computer  terminals  facilitating  access  to  various  academic  resources,  viz.,
journals, databases etc.
Book  Bank  Facility:  The  library  has  a  special  collection  of  textbooks  for  students
belonging  to  SC/ST  category,  as  per  Government  of  India  rules.  They  are  issued  to  the
students,  who  can  apply  as  per  the  announced  schedule  by  the  Book  Bank  student
E-Journal  resources  and  scientific  databases  available  in  the  campus  include  ACM
Digital  Library,  American  Chemical  Society,  American  Institute  of  Physics,  American
Physical  Society,  Annual  Reviews,  ASME  Digital  Library,  Elsevier’s  Science  Direct,  IEL
Online,  IMechE,  Institute  of  Physics,  Nature,  Nature  Online  Journals,  Optical  Society  of
America, Project MUSE, Royal Society of Chemistry, Science Online, Society for Industrial
&  Applied  Mathematics,  Springer  Link,  Taylor  &  Francis,  Wiley  Online  Library,
miscellaneous  titles  from  Cambridge  University  Press,  Begell  House,  Rinton  Press,  SAE,
University  of  Manchester  Press,  Jstor,  EBSCO  Academic  Search,  Mathscinet,  Scopus,
Right  from  its  inception,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  been  striving  to  achieve  an  ideal  synthesis  of
teaching  and  research.  This  spirit  reflects  most  clearly  in  the  variety  and  scope  of  the
laboratories  the  institute  has  established  so  far.  Now the  institute  has  a  number  of  state-of-
the-art laboratories and research centers trying to elevate students from minimalist academic
concerns  to  the  inquisitive  world  of  scientific  arena.  These  labs  and  research  centers  help
well-trained  faculty  members  and  students  work  for  s  better  future  by  supplementing  and
improving existing technologies and bodies of knowledge, using competence, creativity, and
imagination.  To  accomplish  such  goals,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  already  made  collaborations  with
several leading academic and research centers across the world.
Advanced Manufacturing Laboratory
The  CAD  Lab  of  the  institute  provides  facilities  for  undergraduate  students  and  faculty
members  to  work  with  2-D  &  3-D  design  and  analysis  software  for  their  academic  and
research work. The 3-D Modeling Software and FE Analysis softwares available in the CAD
In  the  CAM  Lab  undergraduate  students  learns  to  control  machine  tools  and  related
machinery  in  the  manufacturing  of  work  pieces  with  help  of  computer  programing  and
software.  The  CAD  model  of  object  is  prepared  in  3D  modelling  software  and  then  its  FE
analysis  is  done  with  help  of  Analysis  software  and  then  manufactured  using  CNC
programing and CNC machines. With help of CNC machines the object is manufactured with
lesser time with higher dimensional accuracy with optimum uses of material, energy and cost.
The CAM lab of the institute is equipped with following machines:
  EMCO Concept Mill 250
  EMCO Concept Mill 105
  EMCO Concept Turn 105
In  addition,  a  rapid  prototyping  machine  based  on  the  Fused  Deposition  Modelling  was
acquired for the CAD/CAM lab from Stratasys Inc., USA. It works seamlessly with STL files
generated  from a  number of CAD software programs. First  year students of  all  engineering
branches have been taught to create STL files of the product designed such that 3D model in
ABS  material  can  be  printed  for  purposes  of  visualization  and  design  communication.  It  is
proposed to conduct workshops and training programs for external industry participants using
this technology in the next academic year.
Central  workshop  is  a  facility  where  the  students  are  trained  to  convert  raw  material  into
finished  products.  Here,  the  students  learn  about  various  manufacturing  processes  such  as
metal  cutting,  metal  forming,  metal  casting,  and  metal  joining.  The  central  workshop  is
equipped with different types of welding  machines which aid students  in understanding the
basic  welding  processes  and  in  utilising  the  facilities  for  fabrication  works  for  academic
The following are the machines and equipments available in central workshop:
1.  Welding fume extraction down draft table
2.  Multi process welding equipment
3.  Portable single phase MIG/MAG
4.  AC/DC welding equipment
5.  MIG/MAG welding equipment
6.  Treadle operated shearing Machine
7.  Hand operated Folding Machine
8.  Kaizen Muffle Furnace
9.  Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine
10. Motorized Circle cutting Machine
11. Hand operated Circle cutting Machine
12. Hydraulic shearing Machine
13. Portable Heating Plant
14. Portable hardening plant
15. Forging Heating Plant
16. Aluminium Melting Plant
17. Fitting Table
18. Mould Making Facility
19. Portable Tool Grinder
Chemical Biology Laboratory
The  laboratory  deploys  cellular  and  molecular  biology  approaches  to  explore  the
pathogenesis of cancer and other neurodegenerative diseases. Given the  interest  in  neuronal
death,  it  is  no  wonder  that  this  lab  team  is  interested  in  E3  ubiquitin  ligases  essential  for
quality control events in neuronal survival. Protein ubiquitylation is highly versatile, ordered,
the multistep post translation modification enzymatic process that regulates numerous aspects
of cell physiology. This lab team has been studying the role of such E3 ligases to find out  the
role of quality control E3 ubiquitin ligases in maintenance of proteostasis and hence playing a
role  in  cellular  survival  and  death;  such  important  biochemical  findings  may  contribute  to
innovative therapeutic approaches for the diseases associated with misfolded proteins.
The  laboratory  has  collaboration  with  Riken  Brain  Science  Institution,  Japan;  International
Centre  for  Genetic  Engineering  and  Biotechnology,  India;  National  Brain  Research  Centre,
India; National Centre for Cell Sciences, India.
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control mechanism
which  the  lab  team  is  trying  to  understand  at  present.  The  role  of  E3  ubiquitin  ligases  was
reported in  such  mechanisms  so far. Our  laboratory  is dedicated to a qualitative research  in
the field of protein quality control mechanisms. We have recently found that a HECT domain
containing  E3  ubiquitin  ligase  E6-AP  helps  in  Amyotrophic  Lateral  Sclerosis  diseases
suppression  through  its  association  with  the  misfolded  protein  aggregates  formed  by  SOD1
mutants. Such findings support that an E3 ligase can have a capability to clear the misfolded
protein  aggregation.  However,  while  appreciating  the  incredible  efficiency  of  cellular
systems,  we  must  recognize  the  crucial  role  of  chaperones  which  are  supposed  to  work
preferentially compared to E3 ubiquitin ligases in order to refold the misfolded proteins, and
hence  conserving  the  energy  utilized  during  the  translation  of  those  proteins.  Various
examples  made  us  think  that  we  could  explore  the  role  of  both  the  chaperones  and  E3
ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are working not
only  with  E3  ubiquitin  ligases  but  also  with  the  chaperones  and  even  in  their  functional
association to confer an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell.
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students in scientific
methods  that  would  solve  real  problems  at  the  frontier  of  our  understanding  of  the  matter.
This  is  a  multi-use  laboratory  and  provides  a  number  of  resources  to  assist  undergraduate,
graduate  and  PhD  students  in  planning  their  professional  careers  after  completing  their
academic program at IIT Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a broad spectrum of state-of-the-art instrumentation including basic
laboratory  set  up  (for  organic,  inorganic,  organometallic  and  material  synthesis),  Nitrogen,
Oxygen  and  LPG  gas  line,  Inert  atmosphere  boxes,  vacuum  line  work,  fume  hood  pH,
conductivity,  BOD,  COD,  meters,  Rotary  evaporator,  Vacuum  pumps,  centrifuges,  High
pressure  reactor  system,  chiller,  heaters  Microbalances,  Orbital  Shaker,  GC,  HPLC  and
Radleys ready reactor. In the academic year 2011-2012, the lab procured equipments such as
Polarimeter, Melting Point Instrument, Solar Simulator, and Digital Titrator.
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The  lab  provides  software  and  hardware  infrastructure  for  carrying  out  experiments  in  the
field of Control Systems,  Microprocessor and DSP. Broadly, the  lab  includes the  following
a. Control Systems
1.  Ball & Beam System from Quanser
2.  Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser
3.  Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser
4.  Softwares include Scilab / Matlab
b. DSP Lab Equipments
c. Microprocessor Labs
Digital Language Laboratory
The  Digital  Language  Laboratory  provides  resources,  facility,  and  support  for  foreign
language instruction and learning to the entire student community of IIT Jodhpur. The lab is
the multilingual computing and assessment center of the institute. The lab team explores and
implements  methods  through  which  multimedia  technology  renders  learning  a  foreign
language a  more authentic experience. Here, for language  learning purposes one could seek
recourse  to  most  advanced  technologies  including  the  Internet  and  interactive  video,
audiovisual  techniques,  multi-modal  iconic  approach,  and  speech  recognition.  Some  other
exercises  include  listening  and  comprehension,  grammar-based  exercises,  placement
solutions,  and  mastery  tests.  The  main  features  of  this  state-of-the-art  facility  include  top-
rated  Smart  Class  Symposium  LL  from  Robotel  and  New  Dynamic  English  Learning
Program from Dyned International. All the facilities at the Digital Language Laboratory are
proficiency-oriented  and  standard-based,  and  nurture  the  students’  enthusiasm  for  gaining
global exposure and proficiency in a foreign language.
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In  this  laboratory  the  students  make  and  test  their  analog  and  digital  circuits  by  using  all
kinds of circuit components like diode, transistor, opamps, and clocks. The lab has following
1.  Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent
2.  Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent
3.  Programmable Power Supply from Scientific
4.  6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
In  order  to  familiarize  students  to  Electrical  Machines  properties  &  characteristics,  IIT
Jodhpur  has  established  “Electro  Mechanical  Energy  Conversion  Laboratory”  and  has
continually  been  developing  the  potential  of  its  lab  facility.  In  this  lab,  state-of-the-art
“Electrical Engineering” facilitates the students to empower their potentials by familiarizing
themselves with the fundamental of electro-mechanical energy conversion process, including
several practical  &  industrial  applications of  machines  in true applicable environment. This
lab  occupies  conventional  as  well  as  modern  equipments  to  fulfil  the  basic  and  modern
technological requirements with continual developing efforts.
Renewable Energy Laboratory
To  resolve  most  daunting  challenge  of  this  world—energy  needs—and  also  our  nation’s
heavy  reliance  on  fossil  fuels,  Renewable  Energy  Laboratory  (REL)  promotes  rigorous  and
objective empirical research at IIT Jodhpur on issues related to energy and environment. REL
focuses on designing, testing, and disseminating renewable and efficient energy system. The
mission  of  REL  is  to  help  these  technologies  to  realize  their  full  potential  to  contribute  to
environmentally  sustainable  development  in  industrial  and  developing  countries.  In  the
renewable energy field, expert faculty and students at this Laboratory are currently striving to
create  an  innovative  system  to  efficiently  harness  energy  from  sunlight  and  wind  power.
Recently, a work on solar and wind system for household development has been planned and
our  research  effort  at  REL  draws  on  ongoing  work  in  variety  of  fields,  including  energy
engineering,  and  environmental  risk  analysis.  REL  has  computer  interfaced  systems  and
approximately 30 students can work at a time. Students are the greatest resource of REL and
IIT  Jodhpur  has  made  substantial  commitment  to  the  area  of  renewable  energy  and  been
providing all required resources to execute a viable plan and innovative research at REL. One
aspect  of  the  evolution  of  REL  is  the  development  of  collaborative  partnership  with  other
academic  and  industrial  groups.  In  the  near  future,  it  will  be  a  hub  for  training  and  public-
private  sector  collaboration.  Recently,  the  lab  has  started  a  consultancy  project,  with
Panasonic R & D India Pvt Ltd, on the prototyping of microbial fuel cells. In addition, the lab
has started work on data collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than
5 MW in Rajasthan and Gujarat.
1. Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent
magnets ~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc
2. PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell,
3. Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with solar
altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid
inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4. Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications
Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn:
  Analyses and evaluation of experimental data
  Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data
  How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system
considering various technical aspects,  heat exchanger, thermal energy storage,
receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In  addition  to the  above,  this  laboratory  aims  at  generating  innovative  ideas  in  students  by
promoting  the  design  of  experiments  and  small  scale  projects.  At  present  in  the  fluid
mechanics  laboratory  are  conducted  experiments  on  losses  in  pipes  (smooth/rough)  and
fittings  (e.g.  valves,  bends),  comparison  between  different  flow  meters,  particle  image
velocimetry  technique,  Hot-wire  anemometer,  labscale  sub-sonic  wind  tunnel  for-  pressure
distribution  around  a  cylinder/air-foil,  lift  and  drag  balance,  boundary  layer  development,
weather  monitoring.  Furthermore  the  lab  provides  training  on  standard  software,  such  as,
CFAST for fire simulation.
Currently  the  Heat  Transfer  Laboratory  is  equipped  with  the  demonstration  of  various
thermometry  techniques,  heat  exchange  system,  ventilation  system,  Natural  and  forced
convection system, heat conduction unit for different materials, lab and industrial-scale solar
water  heater  system,  and  thermal  radiation  unit.  All  these  equipment  are  installed  with
For testing, calibration and research purpose in these  laboratories, various equipments, such
as, Laser Doppler Velocimeter with Particle Analyzer, pressure and temperature calibration,
blower with variable flow, pressure transducers, differential pressure transducers, turbine test
rig, turbo-machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc. are being procured.
Moreover,  multi-purpose  test  set  up  is  being  indigenously  designed  and  the  components  /
sub-systems  involved  are  being  fabricated  locally.  This  system  aims  at  investigation  and
evaluation  of  solar  thermal  sub-systems  such  as  volumetric  air  receiver,  thermal  energy
storage, air-water heat exchange  systems and their simultaneous operation. Devices such  as
earth air heat exchange system, wind catcher, and air-cooled heat exchange systems are being
fabricated and tested for certain applications.
Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The mission of Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory is to synthesize research and
hands-on learning in Measurement and Automation Technology. The state-of-the-art facilities
at  this  laboratory  offer  innovative  research  opportunities  in  the  astronomical  space  of
communication  and  real  time  measurement  and  real  time  measurement  technology.  The
experienced  Lab  team  nurtures  students'  talent  in  research  and  offers  a  platform  for
developing  sophisticated  measurement,  test,  and  control  systems,  data  analysis  system,  and
next generation communication technologies.
in  building  baseband
theoretical  and  practical  competence
Students  also  develop
communication  circuits, in the application of NI LabVIEW graphical programing software,
in the PXI based NI RF/Wireless measurement stand, in evaluating NI WSNs and LabVIEW
software,  adjusting  a  software-defined  radio  system,  measuring  the  parameters  of  studied
antennas, and in the operation of analog modulation schemes.
NI-Lab  contains  software  and  hardware  subsystems  which  enable  rapid  prototyping  and
development  of  embedded  systems  for  various  applications.  Currently,  this  lab  contains  the
NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand
Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard
Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA,
FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme
Development and Research
Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand
Wireless Sensor Networks Stand
Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand
Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand
FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing
VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand
Fiber Optic Communication Stands
Network Based Manufacturing
Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After  two  years  of  its  formation,  this  lab  has  contributed  immensely  to  the  learning  and
research activities at IIT Jodhpur. Cellular Communications Lab, Intelligent Instrumentation,
System Analysis Techniques  and  Bio-Sensors  courses  are  being  offered  through this  lab  for
both  graduate  and  undergraduate  students.  The  lab  has  provided  the  right  hardware  and
software  tools  for  many  industry  consultancy  projects,  including  the  development  of
DRM/DRM+  IP  for  digital  radio  standards.  Other  projects  being  done  in  the  lab  are
development of affordable wireless video transmission systems, cognitive radio, and Zigbee
Material Testing and Solid Mechanics
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of different types of
materials  to  find  out  their  mechanical  properties  like  modulus  of  elasticity,  tensile  and
compressive  strength,  stress  strain  curve,  bending  properties,  hardness  etc.  The  lab  is
equipped with following test equipments:
1.  Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN
2.  Rockwell Tester
3.  Brinell Tester
4.  Vickers Tester
5.  Poldi Hardness Tester
6.  Portable hardness tester
7.  Material Testing and Solid Mechanics
Materials Analysis Laboratory
The  laboratory  is  equipped  with  state-of-the-art  facilities  to  carry  out  thermal  analysis,
electrochemical  analysis,  surface  morphology  studies,  separation  techniques  for  chemicals,
electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove box etc.
The equipments available at the Materials Analysis Laboratory include:
(i) Differential Scanning Calorimeter: DSC 8000, Perkin Elmer Simultaneous thermal
analyzer: STA 6000, Perkin Elmer
(ii) Waters HPLC
(iii) Gas Chromatography-Perkin Elmer
The  Microscopy  Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur  is  located  in  Academic  block 1, Room Number
1107.  This  burgeoning  laboratory  is  committed  to  procuring all  specific  Equipments  and  is
about  to  gain  the  level  of  state-of-the-art  laboratories  at  IIT  Jodhpur.  Experienced  faculty
nurtures  students’  enthusiasm  about  the  morphological  analysis  of  biological  samples  and
also assists them to operate scientific instruments. Currently, this laboratory houses different
microscopes and a number of common pieces of sample preparation equipments.
The  Media  Laboratory  provides  facilities  to  carry  out  work  related  to  E-learning,  image
processing,  and  computer  vision.  The  thrust  areas  of  research  in  this  lab  are:  Semantic
analysis of video/image content, video surveillance, human motion analysis, document image
analysis,  content  based  image  retrieval  etc.  E-learning  related  activities  include  video
recording,  audio-video  digitization,  video  editing,  etc.  In  the  academic  year  2011-2012,  a
research on Indian sign language recognition using Kinect has been initiated.
Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook. Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder,
Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking  Technologies  Laboratory  has  been  started  functioning  in  the  Academic  Year
2011-2012. It aims at enabling undergraduate and graduate students, who pursue their interest
in the area of computer networks, to understand the concepts of computer networks and work
with  contemporary  networking  equipment  in  a  realistic  setting.  In  addition, the  lab  aims  at
providing necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on advanced topics, such as
wireless  mesh  networks,  sensor  networks,  communication  on  power  lines,  from  computer
  Prototyping  of  networking  hardware  (Example,  Ethernet  switch,  IPV4  router  etc)
  Developing packet processors using Click router modular software framework.
  Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless networks, multi-
hop wireless  mesh and  sensor networks, power  line  communication  networks, home
phone line networks.
  Studies  related  to  the  performance  analysis  of  various  protocols  over  on  different
  Development  of  novel  routing  algorithms,  transport  layer  mechanisms,  and  services
for next generation networks.
  Setting up planet-lab infrastructure (which will essentially become part of the global
distributed  computing  platform  created  over  the  Internet  by  connecting  over  500+
sites).  This  allows  the  students  and  researchers  not  only  to  understand  the  traffic
patterns  on  the  Internet  but  also  to  develop  new  technologies/applications  on  the
Internet  for  distributed  storage,  networking  mapping,  peer-to-peer  systems,  content
distribution service, and cloud computing.
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students with experiential
knowledge  in  basic  physics.  This  laboratory  has  state-of-the-art  facilities  including  specific
equipments and is currently offering different experiments in Mechanics, Waves, Electricity,
Magnetism,  and  Optics.  Now  the  lab  has  facilities  for  experimenting  with  Speed  of  Light,
Zeeman Effect, and Michelson Interferometer.
Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in the area of
power  electronics  based  power  conversion  systems,  control  systems  and  drives.  The
laboratory  facilitates  for  faculty  and  students  to  conduct  research  in  the  areas  power
converters  and  AC/DC  micro-grid.  The  laboratory  is  equipped  with  state-of-art  test  and
measurement instruments, converters, power supplies and programming boards.
1. High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000.
2. DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B).
3. Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B.
4. Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32, 10A.
5. Three phase inverter drive.
6.  Three phase inverter stacks.
7. DC-DC converters.
8. Differential currents Probes.
9. Current clamps.
10. Isolation Transformers.
11. FPGA training kits and programming boards.
IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and research. The
infrastructure includes the following:
1. Vicon Motion Tracking System
2. Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret WAM ARM mounted on a
PowerBot Mobile robot platform
3.  Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units
5.  Wheel Chair
6.  Force Plate
7. Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-planning, SLAM
8. Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution, Inverse Kinematics of
Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing
9. GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has selected the IIT Jodhpur campus
site as one of their solar radiation centers. Solar radiation measurement (Global and Direct),
Humidity, Ambient temperature, Rain gauge and wind speed measurement are carried out at
this center and the data is transmitted via a satellite link to the MNRE nodal center C-WET in
Chennai. The instruments in this laboratory are powered by a couple of solar panels. The data
collected from this center enables the solar resource assessment required for the setting up of
solar  thermal  and  solar  photovoltaic  power  plants  as  outlined  in  the  Jawaharlal  Nehru
National Solar Mission (JNNSM).
IIT  Jodhpur  provides  health  care  facilities  to  students  at  the  residential  campus  round  the
clock.  The  Health  Center  has  now  three  doctors  and  four  supporting  staff  members.  The
institute also has tie-ups with some hospitals in the city to cater to the medical needs of the
students  and  staff.  The  Health  Center  at  the  residential  area  has  all  the  necessary
infrastructure, facilities, and equipment needed for basic health care. Essential medicines are
stocked and provided to patients undergoing treatment.
Health  Center  coordinates  and  supervises  the  treatment  of  students,  employees,  and  their
dependents  during  hospitalization  in  other  hospitals  which  are  accredited  to  the  institute  to
provide in-patient care. HC arranges for ambulance on call during medical emergencies.
HC extends its health care services on request to visitors of the institute during their stay in
transit hostels in the residential area. Free medical consultancy services are also extended to
the  poor  and  needy  serving  in  the  residential  area.  Further,  Patient  records,  details  of
medicine procurement/disbursement, assets, equipment of HC etc. are all computerized. The
institute  is  looking  forward  to  procuring  facilities  for  some  common  emergency  health
situations such as ECG machine, ambulance, etc.
The institute provides facilities for sports and games at four places: hostel premises, academic
campus,  Vidyashram  playground,  and  JNVU  new  campus.  Also,  the  institute  has  arranged
conveyance  for  those  students  who  wish  to  go  to  Vidyasham  playground  and  JNVU  new
campus. Further, a gymnasium at the residential area functions for the students.
SC/ST and OBC Cell
IIT  Jodhpur  has  created  the  SC/ST  and  OBC  Cell  for  ensuring  the  proper  utilization  and
adaptation of reservation policies and guidelines issued by the Government of India. The Cell
has  also  been  entrusted  with  work  related  to  grievances  received  from  SC/ST  and  OBC
employees  and  students.  The  Cell  also  needs  to  communicate  relevant  information  to  the
Ministry  of  Human  Research  and  Development  and  to  communicate  to  the  Institute
Government of India’s decisions related to admission, recruitment, promotion and training of
SC/ST and OBC students and employees.
The  Hindi  Cell  of  IIT  Jodhpur  promotes  the  use  of  Hindi  as  a  medium  of  official
communications  and  public  relations.  The  mission  of  the  Cell  is  to  enable  the  whole  IIT
Jodhpur community to develop basic language skills of Hindi. The Cell also encourages and
assists students to conduct competitions and activities in Hindi language and literature.
The Office Automation Cell of the institute takes care of the IIT website, CoE websites, web
pages  of  faculty  members,  and  so  on.  The  mission  of  the  Office  Automation  division  is  to
render  all  office  procedures  automated  so  their  timely  completion  could  be  ensured  and
account  keeping  would  become  simpler  and  easier.  The  institute  has  already  automated
procedures for booking transit  hostel;  faculty, staff, and  students  leave;  vehicle  booking  for
official purposes; and bona fide certificate for students.
Awards and Recognition
Faculty Members & Areas of Research Interest
1.  Principal Investigator: Dr Gaurav Harit. Project Title: Creation of Virtual Class-Rooms at
IITs over National Knowledge Network. Sponsoring Agency: National Informatics Centre.
Sanctioned Amount: Rs 1,51,79,860/-. Duration: 1 year.
2.  Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Low Cost Access-cum-Computing
Devices. Sponsoring Agency: MHRD. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 47,72,00,000/-. Duration/Date
of Completion: 19-Mar-12.
3.  Principal Investigator: Prof. P K Kalra, Dr. K S Daya (DEI). Project Title: The Village
Community Network: Technology Development and Pilot Roll out Plan for Low Cost
Opportunistic Communication Networks for Rural Areas of India. Sponsoring Agency:
MHRD. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 6,00,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 31-Dec-12.
4.  Principal Investigator: Prof. P K Kalra, Dr. S Bhatnagar (DEI). Project Title: E-Books on
Introduction to High Energy Physics, Introduction to Astroparticle Physics and
Instrumentation Methods in Astroparticle Physics. Sponsoring Agency: MHRD. Sanctioned
Amount: Rs 14,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 31-Dec-12.
5.  Principal Investigator: Dr. Swagat Kumar. Project Title: Development of Low Cost Mobile
Robots - Robotics for Education. Sponsoring Agency: MHRD. Sanctioned Amount: Rs
1,55,80,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 31-Dec-12.
6.  Principal Investigator: Dr. Gaurav Harit. Project Title: Development of Analysis and
Indexing Tools for Harnessing Educational Videos. Sponsoring Agency: MHRD. Sanctioned
Amount: Rs 32,45,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 31-Dec-12.
7.  Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: NI-SENSOR & NETWORKS LAB.
Sponsoring Agency: NI Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 5,00,000/-.
Duration/Date of Completion: 1 year.
8.  Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Cross MAC & PHY Layer
Research. Sponsoring Agency: NI Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Sanctioned Amount: Rs
5,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 6 months.
9.  Principal Investigator: Dr. Hari Narayanan V. Project Title: Language, Cognition & the
Human Mind. Sponsoring Agency: Indian Council of Philosophical Research, MHRD.
Sanctioned Amount: Rs 50,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 3 years.
10. Principal Investigator: Dr. Akhilesh Mohan. Project Title: Conceptualization and Design
Study for Freespace Material Characterization Facility. Sponsoring Agency: Defence
Research & Development Organisation, Jodhpur. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 5,69,000/-.
Duration/Date of Completion: 1 year.
11. Principal Investigator: Prof. P K Kalra. Project Title: One Stop Educational Portal.
Sponsoring Agency: Chhattisgarh Infotech & Biotech Promotion Society. Sanctioned
Amount: Rs 40,85,934/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years.
12. Principal Investigator: Dr. Amit Mishra. Project Title: Identification, assessment and
Characterization of E3 Ubiquitin Ligases and Molecular Chaperones Implicated in
Neurogenerative Diseases. Sponsoring Agency: Department of Science & Technology.
Sanctioned Amount: Rs 5,56,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years.
13. Principal Investigator: Prof. Rajiv Shekhar. Project Title: Establishment of the Centre of
Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education. Sponsoring Agency: Ministry of New
& Renewable Energy. Sanctioned Amount: Rs 40,00,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion:
14. Principal Investigator: Dr. Balram Tripathi. Project Title: Study of Aligned CNT/Polymer
Nanocomposites for Hydrogen Storage. Sponsoring Agency: Science and Engineering
Research Board, DST. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 25,92,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 3
15. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Development of Intelligent
Instrumentation and Cellular Communication Courses. Sponsoring Agency: NI Systems (I)
Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 5,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 6
16. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Development of DRM/DRM+
Standards. Sponsoring Agency: NI Systems (I) Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore. Amount Sanctioned: Rs
25,00,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 6 months.
17. Principal Investigator: Dr. Rakesh Sharma. Project Title: Generation, Storage and
Distribution of Solar Hydrogen. Sponsoring Agency: Department of Science & Technology.
Amount Sanctioned: Rs 39,63,600/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years.
18. Principal Investigator: Dr. Vivek Vijay. Project Title: Advancement in Nuclear Reactor
Design Pertaining to NRFCC. Sponsoring Agency: Department of Atomic Energy. Amount
Sanctioned: Rs 4,30,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 1 year.
19. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Reproductive Child Health.
Sponsoring Agency: UNICEF, Jaipur Branch. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 20,86,500/-.
Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years 3 months.
20. Principal Investigator: Dr. Rakesh Sharma. Project Title: Molecular Sensors: Synthesis and
Anion  Recognition Studies. Sponsoring Agency: Science and Engineering Research Board,
DST.  Amount Sanctioned: Rs 27,69,000/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 3 years.
21. Principal Investigator: Prof. Rajiv Shekhar. Project Title: Concentrated Solar Power Plant.
Sponsoring Agency: Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd. Amount Sanctioned: Rs 60,00,000/-.
Duration/Date of Completion: 3 years.
22. Principal Investigator: Dr. Deepak Fulwani. Project Title: Development of Programmable
Emulator for Photovoltaic Plant to Facilitate Complex Testing Requirements. Sponsoring
Agency: Science and Engineering Research Board, DST.  Amount Sanctioned: 9,48,000/-.
Duration/Date of Completion: 3 years.
23. Principal Investigator: Dr. Sandeep Yadav. Project Title: Innovation and Incubation Centre.
Sponsoring Agency: Rajasthan State Government with IIT Rajasthan. Amount Sanctioned:
Rs 2,50,00,000/. Duration/Date of Completion: 1 year.
24. Principal Investigator: Dr. Rakesh Sharma. Project Title: Asymmetric Hydrogenation on
Carbon Nanotube Surface. Sponsoring Agency: Department of Science & Technology.
Amount Sanctioned: Rs 34,02,360/-. Duration/Date of Completion: 2 years.
Awards and Recognitions
Dr. Amit Mishra has been awarded DST-JSPS (IJCSP) fellowship, INT-India and Japan, for
the period 2011-2013
Dr. Sonam Mehrotra has received the Galo Award sponsored by the Cancer Institute of New
Jersey  and  The  New  Jersey  Commission  for  Cancer  Research  for  scientific  excellence  in
Cancer Biology research 2011.
Vivek Vijay:     Co-chair in Workshop on Vedic Studies and Information Technology at Dev
Sanskriti University, Haridwar, India, August 23-24, 2011.
Shree Prakash Tiwari: Keynote Speech: "Introduction to Microelectronics & VLSI",
in Short Term Training Program on "Advance Trends in VLSI", June 11 - 16, 2012, JIET
Publications of Faculty Members in Academic Journals
1. A. Mohan, S. Singh, and A. Biswas,"Generalized Synthesis and Design of Symmetrical
Multiple Passband Filters" Progress In Electromagnetics Research B, Vol. 42, 115-139,
2. B. Ramachandran, A. Dixit, R. Nai, G. Lawes, M. S. Ramachandra Rao, Appl. Phys. Lett.
100, 252902 (2012).
3. Amit Mishra; Megha Maheshwari; Deepak Chhangani; Noriko Fujimori Tonou; Fumito
Endo; Ajay P Joshi; Nihar R Jana; Koji Yamanaka, “E6-AP association promotes SOD1
aggresomes degradation and suppresses toxicity.”
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2012.08.016, (Neurobiology of Aging 2012).
4. Deepak Chhangani., Ajay Prakash Joshi., Amit Mishra (2012), “E3 Ubiquitin Ligases in
Protein Control Mechanism.” Molecular Neurobiology 45 (3), 571-585.
5. Xiaohua Wei, Xiugui Wang , Bing Dong , Xinjian Li, Anand K. Plappally, Zhi Mao &
Larry C. Brown, “Simplified residence time prediction models for constructed wetland water
recycling systems,” Desalination and Water Treatment, DOI:10.1080/19443994.2012.708522
6. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, “Time-frequency
characterization of fetal phonocardiographic signals using wavelet scalogram”, Journal of
Mechanics in Medicine and Biology, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 391-406, 2011.
7. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, "Fetal Heart Rate Variability Analysis from
Phonocardiographic Recordings", Journal of Mechanics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 11,
No. 3, pp. 1-17, 2011.
8. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, K. A. Akant, “Fetal
phonocardiogarphic signal denoising based on non-negative matrix factorization”, Journal of
Medical Engineering and Technology, vol. 36, no.1-2, pp. 57-66, Dec
9. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, "Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy
Inference System for Antepartum Antenatal Care using Phonocardiography", Accepted for
publication in International Journal of Biomedical Engineering & Technology, Inderscience
10. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “Wireless data acquisition system for fetal
phonocardiographic signals using BluetoothTM,” International Journal of Computers in
Healthcare, vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 240-253, 2012.
11. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, “Spectral analysis of
fetal heart sounds in healthy and pathological subjects”, Journal of Medical Engineering and
Informatics, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 125-139, 2012.
12. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “A phonocardiography based real-time fetal
heart rate monitoring system”, In: Eddie Y. K. Ng, R. U. Acharya, T. Tamura, (Eds.),
Distributed Diagnosis and Home Healthcare, American Scientific Publications, pp. 115-128,
chapter 8, vol. 3, 2011.
13. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, “Implementation of
fetal e-health monitoring system through biotelemetry”, International Journal of Electronic
Healthcare, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 36-52, 2012.
14. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, "Fetal Heart Rate Variability Analysis from
Phonocardiographic Recordings", Journal of Mechanics in Medicine and Biology, Vol. 11,
No. 3, pp. 1-17, 2011.
15. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Ranjan Gangopadhyay, "Adaptive Neuro-
Fuzzy Inference System for Antepartum Antenatal Care using Phonocardiography", Accepted
for publication in International Journal of Biomedical Engineering & Technology,
16. Vijay S. Chourasia, Anil Kumar Tiwari, "A Phonocardiography based Real-Time Fetal
Heart Rate Monitoring System", Book Chapter in Eddie Y. K. Ng, R. U. Acharya, T. Tamura,
(Eds.), Distributed Diagnosis and Home Healthcare, American Scientific Publications, vol.
3, Article in press.
17. Ansu Louis. "Critiquing Narratives of Progress: Alternative History in Philip Roth's The
Plot Against America." The IUP Journal of American Studies (February 2012).
18. Ansu Louis. "Transgression and Oedipal Politics in Philip Roth's Sabbath's Theater."
The Explicator. [June, 2012].
19. Ashutosh Kumar Alok and Shireen Gangal, “Decays in a model with Z-mediated flavor
changing neutral current.” e-Print: arXiv:1209.1987 [hep-ph].
20. Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Alakabha Datta, Amol Dighe, M. Duraisamy, D. Ghosh, David
London, J. “New Physics in b -> s mu+ mu-: CP-Violating Observables,” High Energy Phys.
1111 (2011) 122.
21. Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Amol Dighe, David London, “Constraints on the Four-
Generation Quark Mixing Matrix from a Fit to Flavor-Physics Data,” Phys. Rev. D 83 (2011)
22. Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Seungwon Baek, David London, J. “Neutral Gauge Boson
Contributions to the Dimuon Charge Asymmetry in B Decays,” High Energy Phys. 1107
23. S. Mondal, Amit D. Lad, V. Narayanan, S. N. Ahmed, D. Carvalho, I. Chakraborty, P.
Ayyub, Z. M. Sheng, and G. Ravindra Kumar, “Enhanced Hard X-Ray Emission from Cu
Nanorods Moderate Intensity, Femtosecond Laser Produced Plasma”,  Phys. Rev. B 83,
24. M Krishnamurthy, S. Mondal, Amit Lad, Kartik, S. Ahmed, V. Narayanan, R. Rajeev,
G. Chatterjee, Prashant Kumar Singh, G Ravindra Kumar, M Kundu,Krishanu Ray, “A
bright, point source of ultrashort hard x-rays using bioplasmas.” Optics Express, 5754-5761
25. R. Rajeev, , K.P.M.Rishad, Madhu Trivikram, V.Narayanan and M.Krishnamurthy, “A
Thomson parabola ion imaging spectrometer designed to probe relativistic intensity
ionization dynamics of nanoclusters”, Rev. Sci. Intru. 82, 083303 (2011).
26 R.Rajeev, K.P.M.Rishad, Madhu Trivikram, V.Narayanan, T. Barbec and
M.Krishnamurthy, “Decrypting the charge resolved kinectic energy spectrum in coulomb
explosion of Argon clusters,” Phys. Rev. A 85, 023201 (2012).
27.  Mainak  Mazumdar.  “On  price  discrimination,  parallel  trade  and  the  availability  of
patented  drugs  in  developing  countries.”  International  Review  of  Law  and  Economics  (An
Elsevier Publication) 32 (2012), pp. 188-195.
28. Dr. Vivek Vijay. “Relationships Between Full and Layer Models With Applications to
Level Merging.” Communications in Statistics- Theory and Methods. 40(2011), 745-761.
29. A. Kumar, S. Adhikari and P. Agrawal, “Generalized form of optimal teleportation
witness operators,” arXiv:1204.0983.
30. Barun Pratiher and Santosha Kumar Dwivedy, “Nonlinear response of a vertically
moving viscoelastic beam subjected to a fluctuation contact load,” Acta Mechanica, 218, 65,
31. Barun Pratiher and Santosha Kumar Dwivedy, “A study of nonlinear vibration of
magnetoelastic cantilever beam with tip mass under Time varying axial load,” Mechanics
Based Design of Structures and Machines, Journal of Taylor & Francis, Volume 39, Issue 3,
32. B. Adhikari, R. Alam, “On backward errors of structured polynomial eigenproblems
solved by structure preserving linearizations,” Linear Algebra & Appl.434 (2011), pp.1989-
33. B. Adhikari, R. Alam,D. Kressner, “Structured eigenvalue condition numbers and
linearizations for matrix polynomials,” Linear Algebra & Appl. 435 (2011), pp. 2193 - 2221.
34. Deepak Fulwani, B.Bandyopadhyay and  L. Fridman “Nonlinear sliding surface:
Towards high performance robust control”  IET Control theory and Applications, Vol. 6,
No. 2, pp. 235-242, 2012.
35. Fulwani Deepak and B. Bandyopadhyay “Sliding Surface Design with Saturated
Actuator,” To appear in Lecture notes in Control and Information Science (LNCIS),
36. Gourishankar Hiremath and B. Kamaiah (2012) “Variance ratios, Structural breaks and
a Nonrandom walk Behaviour of Indian Stock Returns.”  Accepted for publication in Journal
of Business and Economic Studies (Fall 2012 Issue).
37. Belal Usmani, Narendra Kumar, Vatsanagupta, S. Harinipriya, “Solar selective coatings
with enhanced thermal and corrosion stability: Electrochemically deposited black chrome on
stainless steel in the presence of graphite encapsulated FeCo Nanoparticles”, Advanced
Materials Research, Accepted.
48. S. Harinipriya, Sreejith V, “Polyaniline and Multiwalled Carbon nanotube composites
on PC, PC/ABS and Nylon matrix for EMI sheilding applications”, Nanotechnology and
Nanoscience, issue 1, 31 - 37, 2011.
39. S. Harinipriya , Sreejith V, “Electrically conducting Nylon6 6/ Polyaniline composite
short fibers by solvent coagulation method”, Synthetic metals, accepted, in press.
40.  F.  Roelofs,  V.R.  Gopala,  L.  Chandra,  M.  Viellieber,  A.  Class, “ Simulating  fuel
assemblies with low resolution CFD approaches”, Invited as a selected paper from NURETH
14 for publication, Nuclear Engineering and Design (In press).
41. Laltu Chandra, Ferry Roelofs, “CFD analyses of liquid metal flow in sub-channels for
Gen IV eactor”, an extended  version  is accepted  for publication  in the NURETH-13 special
issue of Nuclear Engineering and Design, 241 (11), pp. 4391-4403, 2011.
42. L. Audouin, L. Chandra, J-L Consalvi, L. Gay, E. Gorza, V. Hohm, S. Hostikka, T. Ito,
W.  Klein-Hessling,  C.  Lallemand,  T.  Magnusson,  N.  Noterman,  J.S.  Park,  J.  Peco,  L.
Rigollet, S. Suard, P. Van-Hees, “Quantifying differences between computational results and
measurements in the case of a large-scale well-conﬁned ﬁre scenario”, Nuclear Engineering
and Design, 241 (1), pp. 18-31, 2011.
43. P. R. Sharma, A. Sharma, M. D. Shrimali, and A. Prasad, “Targeting fixed-point
solutions in nonlinear oscillator through linear augmentation”, Physical Review E, 83, 067201
44. A. Sharma, M. D. Shrimali, A. Prasad, R. Ramaswamy, and U. Feudel, “Phase-flip
transition in relay-coupled nonlinear oscillators,” Physical Review E, 84, 016226 (2011).
45. P. R. Sharma and M. D. Shrimali, “Computing with coupled chaotic neuronal maps,”
International Journal of Unconventional Computing, 7, 115 (2011).
46. A. Sharma and M. D. Shrimali, Pramana, “Synchronization of indirectly coupled Lorenz
oscillators: An experimental study,” Journal of Physics, 77, 881 (2011).
47. A. Sharma and M. D. Shrimali, “Experimental realization of mixed--synchronization in
counter--rotating coupled oscillators”, Nonlinear Dyn, 69, 371 (2012).
58. A. Sharma, P. R. Sharma, and M. D. Shrimali, “Amplitude-death in nonlinear oscillators
with indirect coupling”, Physics Letters A, 376, 1562 (2012).
49. A. Sharma and M. D. Shrimali, “Amplitude death with mean field diffusion”, Physical
Review E, 85, 057204 (2012).
50. A. Sharma, M. D. Shrimali, and S. K. Dana, “Phase-flip transition in nonlinear
oscillators coupled by dynamic environment”, Chaos: An Interdisciplinary Journal of
Nonlinear Science, 22, 023147 (2012).
51. N. Ganguly, Satyabrata Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, "Common entanglement witnesses
and their characteristic'', Accepted in Quantum Information Processing.
52. Satyabrata Adhikari, I. Chakrabarty, P. Agrawal , "Probabilistic secret sharing sharing
through noisy quantum channels", Quantum Information and Computation 12, 0253 (2012).
53. Satyabrata Adhikari, A.S. Majumdar, D. Home, A. K. Pan, P. Joshi, "Quantum
teleportation using non-orthogonal entangled channels", Physica Scripta 85, 045001 (2012).
54. Xuan Zhang, Jae Won Shim, Shree Prakash Tiwari, et al. “Dithienopyrrole-
quinoxaline/pyridopyrazine donor-acceptor polymers: synthesis and electrochemical, optical,
charge-transport, and photovoltaic properties,” Journal of Materials Chemistry, Vol. 21,
Pages 4971-4982, 2011.
55. Jianguo Mei, Kenneth R. Graham, Romain Stalder, Shree Prakash Tiwari, et al. “Self-
Assembled Amphiphilic Diketopyrrolopyrrole-Based Oligothiophenes for Field-Effect
Transistors and Solar Cells,” Chemistry of Materials, Vol. 23, Pages 2285-2288, 2011.
56. J.B. Kim, C. Fuentes-Hernandez, D.K. Hwang, S.P. Tiwari, W.J. Potscavage Jr. and B.
Kippelen, “Vertically stacked complementary inverters with solution-processed organic
semiconductors,” Organic Electronics, Organic Electronics, Vol. 12, Pages 1132-1136,
57. Lauren E. Polander, Shree P. Tiwari, Laxman Pandey, Brian M. Seifried, Stephen
Barlow, Chad Risko, Jean-Luc Brédas, Bernard Kippelen, and Seth R. Marder, “Solution-
Processed Molecular Bis(Naphthalene Diimide) Derivatives with High Electron Mobility,”
Chemistry of Materials, Vol. 23, Pages 3408-3410, 2011.
58. Lauren E. Polander, Laxman Pandey, Stephen Barlow, Shree Prakash Tiwari, Chad
Risko, Bernard Kippelen, Jean-Luc Bredas, and Seth R. Marder, “Benzothiadiazole-
Dithienopyrrole Donor-Acceptor-Donor and Acceptor-Donor-Acceptor Triads: Synthesis and
Optical, Electrochemical, and Charge-Transport Properties,” The Journal of Physical
Chemistry C, Vol. 115, Pages 23149-23163, 2011.
59. Tissa Sajoto, Shree Prakash Tiwari, Huifang Li, Chad Risko, Stephen Barlow, Qing
Zhang, Jian-Yang Cho, Jean-Luc Brédas, Bernard Kippelen, and Seth R. Marder, “Synthesis
and characterization of naphthalene diimide/diethynylbenzene copolymers,” Polymer,
60. Shree Prakash Tiwari, Keith A. Knauer, Amir Dindar, and Bernard Kippelen,
“Performance comparison of pentacene organic field-effect transistors with SiO2 modified
with octyltrichlorosilane or octadecyltrichlorosilane,” Organic Electronics, Vol. 13, Pages
61. Shree Prakash Tiwari, Jungbae Kim, Keith A Knauer, Do Kyung Hwang, Lauren E
Polander, Stephen Barlow, Seth R Marder, and Bernard Kippelen, “Complementary-Like
Inverters Based on an Ambipolar Solution-Processed Molecular Bis(Naphthalene Diimide)-
Dithienopyrrole Derivative,” Organic Electronics, Vol. 13, Pages 1166-1170, 2012.
62. Chun Huang, William J. Potscavage, Shree P. Tiwari, Sinan Sutcu, Stephen Barlow,
Bernard Kippelen and Seth R. Marder, “Polynorbornenes with pendant perylene diimides for
organic electronic applications,” Polymer Chemistry, Vol. 3, Pages 2996-3006, 2012.
63. S. Banerjee and R. Parthasarathy, “A Q-deformed logistic map and its implications,” J.
Phys. A.:Math. Theor. 44, 045104 (2011).
64. I. Chakrabarty, S. Banerjee and N. Siddharth, “A Study of Quantum Coorelations in
Open Quantum Systems,” Quantum Information and Computation 11, 0541 (2011).
65. C. M. Chandrashekar, S. K. Goyal and S. Banerjee, “Entanglement generation in
spatially separated systems using quantum walk,”Journal of Quantum Information Science: 2,
66. C. M. Chandrashekar and S. Banerjee, “Parrendo’s game using a discrete-time quantum
walk,” Phys. Lett. A 375, 1553 (2011).
67. B. R. Rao, R. Srikanth, C. M. Chandrashekar and S. Banerjee, “Quantumness of noisy
quantum walks: a comparison between measurement-induced disturbance and quantum
discord,” Phys. Rev. A 83, 064302 (2011).
68. S. Goyal, S. Banerjee and S. Ghosh, “Effect of control procedures on the evolution of
entanglement in open quantum systems,” Phys. Rev. A: 85, 012327 (2012).
69. S. N. Sandhya and S. Banerjee. “Geometric Phase: a Diognostic Tool for Entanglement,”
Euro. Phys. J. D: 66, 168 (2012).
Publications of Faculty in 2011-12 before Joining the Institute
1.  Plappally A. K., I. Yakub, L C Brown, W O Soboyejo and A B O Soboyejo , “Physical
Properties of Porous Clay Ceramic-Ware,” Journal of Engineering Materials and
Technology, ASME, 113 (3):311004-1-311004-9. 2011.
2.  Plappally, A. K., Chen, H., Ayinde, W., Alayande, S., Usoro, A. Friedman, K C. Dare, E.,
Ogunyale, T., Yakub, I., Leftwich, M., Malatesta, K., Rivera, R., Brown, L., Soboyejo, A.,
Soboyejo, W (2011). “A Field Study on the Use of Clay Ceramic Water Filters and
Influences on the General Health in Nigeria.” Journal of Health Behavior and Public Health,
1(1): 1-14. http://www.asciencejournal.net/asj/index.php/HBPH/article/view/109.
3.  Wei X., Plappally A. K., Brown L.C., Soboyejo A.B.O., Dong B., Mao Z., 2011, “Numerical
and Multivariate Stochastic Approaches to Characterize Guilin Wetland Dynamics,”
Stochastic Environmental Research & Risk Assessment, 24(7), DOI:10.1007/s00477-011-
4.   Vanarase AU, Gao Y, Dubey A, “Ierapetritou MG, Muzzio FJ. Scale Up Of Continuous
Blending”. Chapter 9.2, pages 227-240. In Pharmaceutical Process Scale Up, Third Ed.,
ISBN: 9781616310011, 2011.
5.  Sharma G, Dubey A, Mavroidis C. “Protein based nanoscale actuation. In Nanorobotics:
Current Approaches and Techniques,” Springer, 2011.ISBN 978-1-4614-2118-4.
6.  Plappally A. K., LienhardV. J. H. “Energyrequirements for water
production,treatment,enduse,reclamation, and disposal.” Renewable and Sustainable Energy
Reviews16 (2012), 4818-4848,http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2012.05.022.
7.  Ansu Louis, "The Politics of Desire in Thomas Pynchon's V." Notes on Contemporary
Literature. 41.5 (November 2011).
8.  K. R. Hiremath, L. Zschiedrich, and Frank Schmidt, “Numerical solution of nonlocal
hydrodynamic Drude model for arbitrary shaped nano-plasmonic structures using Nédélec
finite elements,” Journal of Computational Physics, 231 (17), 5890-5896, 2012.
9.  K. R. Hiremath, J. Niegemann, and K. Busch, “Analysis of light propagation in slotted
resonator based systems via coupled-mode theory,” Optics Express, 19(9), 8641-8655, 2011.
10. Mainak Mazumdar. “Sources of Heterogeneity  in the Efficiency of Indian Pharmaceutical
Firms.” Centre de Sciences Humaines (CSH) Occasional Paper no 27 (2011) (A publication
of  the  French  Research  Institutes  in  India),  with  Dr  Meenakshi  Rajeev  and  Subhash  C  Ray
11. Dubey A, Muzzio FJ, et al. “Analysis of Pharmaceutical Tablet Coating Uniformity by Laser
Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy” (LIBS). Journal of Pharmaceutical Innovation, 6(2) 77-
87. DOI: 10.1007/s12247-011-9103-9, 2011.
12. Dubey A, Muzzio FJ, et al. “Effect of speed, loading and spray pattern on coating variability
in a pan coater.” Chemical Engineering Science, 66(21): 5107-5115, 2011.
13. Dubey A, Muzzio FJ, et al. “Computational Approaches for Studying the Granular Dynamics
of Continuous Blending Processes,” DEM Based Methods. Macromolecular Materials and
Engineering, 296(3-4): 290-307, 2011.
14. Boukouvala F, Dubey A, et al. “Computational approaches for studying the granular
dynamics of continuous blending processes,” Data Driven Methods. Macromolecular
Materials and Engineering, 297(1):9-19. DOI: 10.1002/mame.201100054, 2012.
15. Romanski FS, Dubey A, Chester AW, Tomassone MS. “Dry Catalyst Impregnation in a
Double Cone Blender: A Computational and Experimental Analysis.” Powder Technology,
16. Dubey A, Boukouvala F, Muzzio FJ, et al. “Improvement of tablet coating uniformity using a
quality by design approach.” AAPS PharmSciTech. 13(1):231-246. DOI: 10.1208/s12249-
17. Dubey A, Vanarase AU, Muzzio FJ. “Effect of process parameters on the performance of a
continuous blender : A DEM based study.” AIChE Journal. DOI: 10.1002/aic.13770, 2012.
18. Anima Nagar and Puneet Sharma, COMBINED DYNAMICS ON HYPERSPACES, Top.
Proc. 38 (2011) pp 399-410.
19. Shanmuganathan Raman and Subhasis Chaudhuri, "Reconstruction of High Contrast
Images for Dynamic Scenes", The Visual Computer, Pages 1099-1114, Volume 27, Number
20. N. Ganguly, Satyabrata Adhikari, A. S. Majumdar, J. Chatterjee, "Entanglement witness
operator for quantum teleportation", Physical Review Letters 107, 270501 (2011).
21. Lu H., Huang Y., Mehrotra S., Droz-Rosario R., Liu J., Bhaumik M., White E. and Shen Z.,
“Essential Roles of BCCIP in mouse embryonic development and structural stability of
chromosomes,” PloS Genetics 2011, Sep7 (9):e1002291.
22. Haitao Wen, Denis Gris, Yu Lei, Sushmita Jha, Lu Zhang, Max Tze-Han Huang, Willie
June Brickey, Jenny P.-Y. Ting. “Fatty acid-induced NLRP3-ASC inflammasome activation
interferes with insulin signaling.” Nature Immunology, 10 Apr 2011(Epub).
23. Eda K. Holl, Brian P. O'Conner, T. Matt Holl, Kelly E. Roney, Albert Zimmermann,
Sushmita Jha, Garnett Kelsoe, Jenny P.-Y. Ting. “Plexin-D1 regulates humoral immune
memory via control of B-cell entry into germinal centers,” The Journal of Immunology, 4 Apr
24. Vidya Sarveswaran. Commentary on "Homework" in the Restoration Earth. An
Interdisciplinary Journal for the Study of Nature and Civilization published online from The
Ocean Seminary Institute New Jersey. Vol.1.1 November 2011.pg. 42-43.
Conference Presentations and Publications
1. Ravi Patni, Mohit Joshi, Sameer Mehra, and A. Mohan. "Design of Piezoelectric
Aluminum Nitride MEMS Resonator." Proceedings of the World Congress on Engineering
and Computer Science 2011, pp. 166-171.
2. A K Plappally & J H Lienhard, “Costs for Water Supply, Treatment, and Reclamation,”
EDS 2012 Barcelona, Conference and Exhibition on Desalination For The Environment
Clean Water and Energy Technical Program: Socio-economic and environmental issues.
3. Xiaohua Wei, Xiugui Wang, Bing Dong, Xinjian Li, Anand K. Plappally, Zhi Mao, Larry
C. Brown, “Simplified Residence Time Prediction Models for Constructed Wetland Water
Recycling Systems,” EDS 2012 Barcelona, Conference and Exhibition on Desalination For
The Environment Clean Water and Energy.
4. Sunil Jaiswal and Anil Kumar Tiwari, Coefficient Interpolation Approach for
Enhancement of Spatial Resolution of Images,” Proceedings of the 11th biennial Asia Pacific
Conference on Circuits.
5. Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Vinit Jakhetiya, and Anil Kumar Tiwari, “An Efficient Image
Interpolation Algorithm Based Upon the Switching and Self Learned Characteristics for
Natural Images”, 44th IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems (ISCAS) pp.
861 - 864, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 2011.
6. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, and Anil Kumar Tiwari, “A Computationally
Efficient Context Based Switched Image Interpolation Algorithm for Natural Image”, 28th
IEEE International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, 2011.
7. Ashwani Sharma, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “Lossless Video Coding using Grid- Gradient
Classification”, IEEE International Conference on Image Processing Brussels, Belgium,
September 11 - 14, 2011.
8. Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Anil Kumar Tiwari, AU, “Interpolation Based Symmetrical
Predictor Structure For Lossless Image Coding”, 45th IEEE International Symposium on
Circuits and Systems (ISCAS) 2012.
9. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Ashutosh Singla, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “Image
Square Optimization,” Prediction Algorithm 28th IEEE using International, Slope
Instrumentation Measurement Technology Conference, Graz, Austria.
10. Ashutosh Singla, Jaya Shukla, Anil Kumar Tiwari, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Vinit
Jakhetiya, “Adaptive Predictor Structures for Lossless Compression of Videos”, 22nd IEEE
Data Compression Conference, 2012, Snowbird, UT, USA.
11. Vinit Jakhetiya, Sunil Prasad Jaiswal, Ayush Kumar, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “A Low
Complex Context Based Image Interpolation Algorithm For Natural Images” 29th IEEE
International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference, 2012.
12. Jaiswal, Gaurav Mittal, Vinit Jakhetiya, Anil Kumar Tiwari, “An Efficient Two Pass
Lossless Invisible Watermaking Algorithm for Natural Images”, IEEE 19th International
Conference on Systems, Signals and Image Processing, 2012, Vienna, Austria.
13. Dubey A, Boukouvala F, Muzzio FJ et al. “A QbD Approach to Improve Tablet Coating
Uniformity.” The 2011 AIChE Annual Meeting, Oct. 16-21, Minneapolis MN, USA.
14. Varghese A, Dubey A, Ramachandran R. “Efficient Simulation of Population Balance
Models via Parallel and Distributed Computing.” The 2011 AIChE Annual Meeting, Oct. 16-
21, Minneapolis MN, USA.
15. Romanski F, Dubey A, Shen Y, Chester AW, Tomassone MS. “Simulations and
Experiments of Dry Catalyst Impregnation for Improved Content Uniformity.” The 2011
AIChE Annual Meeting, Oct. 16-21, Minneapolis MN, USA.
16. Hari Narayan V. "Dialogue And Disciplines" in National Conference on " Engaging
Science:Dialogue across Disciplines" held at IISER Mohali from March 31st to April 1 2012.
17. Hari Narayan V. "Reporting Experience: The Role of the Self" in Cognition, Experience
and Creativity” (Proceedings of a Conference held at IIT Gandhinagar), To be published by
18. S. Harinipriya(a)*, B. Usmani(a), D. J. Rogers(b) , V. E. Sandana(b,c,d), F. Hosseini
Teherani(b), A. Lusson(c), P. Bove(b), H.-J. Drouhin(d) and M. Razeghi(e), “ZnO Nanorod
Electrodes for Hydrogen Evolution & Storage,” Proc. of SPIE Vol. 8263, 82631Y · © 2012
19. A.  Agarwal, R. V. Maitri, P. Garg, L. Chandra, “ Design and Analyses of Earth-air Heat
Exchange Systems for Space Cooling“, Proc. IEEE-ICSET, 2012.
20.  R.  Jain,  A.  Anand,  G.  Jain, L.  Chandra, “Analyses  and  Design  of  an  Air  Cooled  Heat
Exchanger,” Proc. IEEE-SCES, 2012.
21.  L.  Chandra,  P.  Garg,  R.  V.  Maitri,  A.  Agarwal,  K.  Shweta, “A  Stepwise  Modeling
in  Jodhpur  Region  of
Rajasthan“, Proc. ICDRET 2012.
for  Designing  an  Earth-Air  Heat  Exchanger
22.  F.  Roelofs,  V.  Gopala,  D.  Visser,  A.  Shams,  J.A.  Lycklama  à  Nijeholt,  L.
Chandra, “Developments In Single Phase Fuel Assembly Simulations,” Proc. NURETH 14,
23.  F.  Roelofs,  V.R.  Gopala,  L.  Chandra,  M.  Viellieber,  A.  Class, “Fuel  Assembly
Simulations Using LRGR-CFD and CGCFD,” Proc. NURETH14, Canada, 2011.
24. Manish Srimali, “Phase-flip transition in the absence of time delays in coupled
oscillators,” 31st Dynamics Days Europe, Oldenburg, Germany, 12-16 Sept 2011.
25. Jungbae Kim, Canek Fuentes-Hernandez, Do Kyung Hwang, William J. Potscavage, Jr.,
Hyeunseok Cheun, Shree P. Tiwari, and Bernard Kippelen, “Top-gate pentacene and
amorphous InGaZnO channel thin-film transistors and inverters with high-operational
stability,” SPIE Optics + Photonics: Photonic Devices + Applications (Organic Field-Effect
Transistors X), August 21 -25, 2011, San Diego, California, USA.
26. J. B. Kim, C. Fuentes-Hernandez, D. K. Hwang, S. P. Tiwari, W. J. Potscavage Jr., and
B. Kippelen, “Vertically stacked complementary inverters with solution-processed organic
semiconductors,” SPIE Optics + Photonics: Photonic Devices + Applications (Organic Field-
Effect Transistors X), August 21 -25, 2011, San Diego, California, USA.
27. Sushmita Jha, Siddharth Y. Srivastava, W. June Brickey, Heather Iocca, Arrel Toews,
James P. Morrison, Vivian S. Chen, Denis Gris, Glenn K. Matsushima, and Jenny P.-Y. Ting,
“The inflammasome sensor, NLRP3, regulates CNS inflammation and demyelination via
caspase-1 and IL-18,” selected for a poster presentation at the Young Investigator Meeting
(YIM) Boston, MIT Stata Center, Oct 8th 2011.
28. S. Harinipriya, B. Usmani(a), D. J. Rogers(b) , V. E. Sandana(b,c,d), F. Hosseini
Teherani(b), A. Lusson(c), P. Bove(b), H.-J. Drouhin(d) and M. Razeghi(e), ZnO Nanorod
Electrodes for Hydrogen Evolution & Storage,  Proc. of SPIE Vol. 8263, pp82631Y-
29. Bernard Kippelen, Jungbae Kim, Do Kyung Hwang, Shree P. Tiwari, William J.
Potscavage, Jr., Canek Fuentes-Hernandez, “Organic and hybrid thin-film transistors with
novel architectures and high stability,” SPIE Optics + Photonics: Photonic Devices +
Applications (Organic Field-Effect Transistors X), August 21 -25, 2011, San Diego,
Faculty Members and Specializations (as on 31 July 2012)
Prem K. Kalra
Electrical Engineering: Power Systems,
Expert Systems, HVDC Transmission,
Deregulated Power System,
Educational Paradigms, Data Mining,
Fuzzy Logic System, Neural Networks,
Computational Neuroscience Image
Processing Independent Component
Analysis & Blind Source Separation,
KARMAA (Knowledge Acquisition,
Retention, Management, Assimilation
Electrical Engineering: RF and
Microwave Filters Metamaterials, RF-
MEMS for filter applications
multifunctional ferroics & materials for
energy-fabrication & characterization,
Photovoltaic materials & devices ab
initio DFT study and device
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience,
Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Ohio State University  Mechanical Engineering: Energy Water
Nexus; Water/Waste Water Treatment,
Hydrology, Mechanics of Materials,
Probabil. Methods in Engg., Agri.
Electrical Engineering: Image
Processing,Video Processing, and
Signal Processing application in Bio-
English: American Literature, Literary
and Critical Theory, Postmodern
Fiction, and English Language and
characterization, T-CAD, and Monte-
Carlo modeling of semiconductor
devices, Advanced MOSFET
characterization issues, Numerical
modeling for MEMS reliability
projection, Integrated optical devices
modeling, Fabrication of MOS devices
Physics:  Particle Physics and
Mechanical Engineering: Granular
Dynamics; Solar Thermal Energy
utilization ; Computational Engineering
Chemistry: Quantum Information
Mechanical Engineering: Mechanics,
Mechatronics and Solar energy
Bibhas Adhikari   Assistant
Mechanical Engineering: Dynamic
Model & Simulation, Nonlinear
Techniques,Flexible Robots, Fluid-
Structures Interaction in Flexible Pipes
or carbon nanotube, Modeling and
Dynamics Response MEMS Devices
Mathematics & Statistics: Linear and
Non-linear Algebraic Systems,
Optimization Techniques, Network
Electrical Engineering: Control and
state estimation of uncertain systems,
Power system, Control issues in wind
energy conversion system
Computer Science &
Engineering:Image and Video Analysis
International Finance, Economics of
Energy, Long Memory, Cooperatives,
Hari Narayanan V   Assistant
Philosophy: Cognitive Studies,
Evolutionary Theory, Analytic
Philosophy and Mindfullness
K K Dua
Philosophy:Applied Ethics, Ethics of
University of Twente
Mathematics & Statistics: Theoretical,
mathematical and computational
aspects of wave-matter interactions
Karlsruhe GmbH &
Mechanical Engineering : Solar thermal
system, Thermal hydraulics,
& model development, Computational
Fluid Dynamics, Heat Exchager design
Instiute for Social
Economics: Intellectual Property
Right(IPR) and Pharmaceutical
Industry, Productivity and Efficiency
Analysis, Growth and Regional
Development, Inequality Poverty and
Physics: Nonlinear Dynamics and
Chaos, Complex Systems,
Biological Science & Bio-Engineering
:Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation
Physics: Astrophysics, Astroparticle
Pradeep Kumar P   Assistant
Mechanical Engineering: Thermal
hydraulics, Solar thermal system,
Mathematics & Statistics: Topological
Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
Computer Science & Engineering:
Mechanical Engineering: Welding and
Joining, Advance Manufacturing
Processes, Damage Mechanics,
Biomaterials, Materials Processing
Indian Institute of
Professor   TU Dresden,
Chemistry: Water splitting catalysis,
solar hydrogen production
Macromolecule based molecular
sensors, Heterogeneous catalysis for
small molecule activation, Green
Chemistry Catalysis for stereocontrol
Plastic electronics, Feedstock
Chemistry, Catalysis for energy
solutions, coordination Chemistry
based of d- and f- block element. Water
Electrical Engineering: Electrical
Power System, High Voltage Insulation
Engineering, Lightning and Ball
Electrical Engineering: Signal
Processing, Condition Monitoring,
Image Processing, Data Compression,
Blind Source Separation, Artificial
Mathematics & Statistics: Quantum
Shaligram Tiwari   Visiting
Mechanical Engineering: Heat and
Mass Transfer, Computational Fluid
Dynamics,Flow Transition and
Instability, Refrigeration and Air
Chemistry: Lithium ion batteries, fuel
cells, electrodeposition, Thermal
storage systems, Monte Carlo
simulations, Materials synthesis and
Electrical Engineering : Computer
Vision, Computational Photography,
High Dynamic Range Imaging,
Sonam Mehrotra   Assistant
Microelectronics & VLSI Technology,
Microfabrication, Organic Electronics,
Device Physics and Characterization,
New Device Structures
Biological Science & Bio-Engineering:
Cellular and Molecular Bio sciences,
Genetic Engineering, Cancer Biology
Physics: Open Quantum Systems;
Statistical Mechanics;Quantum Optics
University of North
Carolina at Chapel
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience:
Cellular and molecular Neuroscience,
Cell and molecular Physiology
Computer Science & Engineering:
Transport, Network, MAC layes issues
in Wireless ad-hoc, mesh, sensor
networks. Also interested in the issues
such as, Designing of an
networking system, Techniques for
implementing reconfigurable MAC-
layer, Techniques for implementing a
prototype cognitive radio network,
Deployment aspects of IPv6, and Issues
related to WiMAX.
Physics: Optics and Solar Field Design,
Plasmas(LPP), Pulsed Laser
Depostion(PLD), Plasma Diagnostics
(Interferometry & Optical Emission
Spectroscopy(OES)) Laser Matter
Interaction and Laser Cluster
English: Literature and
Literature,Literatures of the Global
South,Regional Literatures in
Translation, American Literature
Mathematics & Statistics: Financial
Risk Analysis, Categorical Data
V. V. M. Sarma
SUNY at Stony
Brook, USA and
Mathematics & Statistics: Smooth
Dynamical Systems, Renormalization
of Unimodal maps and Henon-like
Dr. Kshema Prakash
Sandeep Singh Chandel
Shiv Ram Jat
Dr. Leela Dhar Sanwal
Dr. M.M. Purohit
Dr. M.S. Charan
Apesh Singh Deora
Narendra Kumar Singh
Amit Kumar Soni
Rinkesh K. Mangal
Sr. Library Information Assistant
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Jr. Lab Assistant
Jr. Lab Assistant
Jr. Lab Assistant
Unique Governance System (SCHoD)
Major Student Events
Student Placement Cell
List of Students
Unique Governance System: SCHoD
Students’ Council for Holistic Development (SCHoD) is the regulatory body which facilitates
and governs all student activities at IIT Jodhpur. With advisory support from the faculty, the
SCHoD is run entirely by students. The elected leader of the SCHoD is the president. Apart
from  acting as the governing  body  for all the concerns of the students, SCHoD coordinates
the activities of five different councils:
1. NUTS: Nurturing and Understanding of Technology and Science
2. PROM: Promotion Relations Ocassion Management
3. WAVES: Writing Awareness Vocal Entertainment Social Awareness
4. SAGE: Sports Adventure Games And Exploration
5. MAD: Media Arts Design
These  councils  work  collectively  together  and  is  headed  and  run  by  the  students  for  the
students.  The  councils  run  the  extra-curricular  activities  in  the  campus.  Each  council  has
various clubs through which it functions and performs it various activities.
Cultural,  Technical,  Sports,  Media  and  Management  constitute  the  entire  activities  of
SCHoD.  SCHoD  has  something  to  catch  the  attention  of  each  and  every  student  of  IIT
Jodhpur.  The  SCHoD  is  responsible  for  planning,  designing  and  executing  intra  as  well  as
inter collegiate events.
Nurturing Understanding in Technology and Science (NUTS)
NUTS is a part of Student’s body SCHoD and provides students an opportunity to explore
the amazing world of technology, in order to innovate, to learn, to create, and to try out new
things and at the same time have loads and loads of fun. This is a platform for one to realize
his/her dream and to develop the next generation technology.
NUTS urges everyone to think beyond conventional boundaries. It also provides support and
opportunity to help one unleash his/her imagination and an ideal platform to showcase one’s
talent. We make things fly, we build electronic gadgets, our own communication devices, we
dare to stare deep into the sky not only to admire the cosmic wonder, but a lot more; we write
our own codes, and we do make our own robots.
Media, Arts and Design (MAD)
Media, Arts and Design is one of the most active students councils of IIT Jodhpur. Under the
MAD council  five clubs  function  very  efficiently and  smoothly with the  help of  an official
coordinator  and  an  assistant  coordinator  besides  the  student  volunteers.  All  the  clubs  are
under  the  direct  supervision  of  the  General  Executive  of  the  council.  The  following  clubs
function under the MAD Council:
Photography and Photo-editing Club.
Video Editing Club
Fine Arts Club
This  council  conducts  the  intra  college  cultural  festival  of  IIT  Jodhpur  “SPANDAN”  in
collaboration  with  cultural  council  of  IIT  Jodhpur,  in  addition  to  conducting  several  intra
college  events  involving  art  exhibition,  animation,  photography,  and  creativity  workshops.
The council also assists the core festival committee of the national level inter college techno-
cultural festival of IIT Jodhpur “IGNUS.” The council has presently 47 members and aims to
nourish the artistic creativity of the IIT Jodhpur community.
Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment and Social awareness
The  WAVES  cell  is  responsible  for  conducting  several  events  and  for  providing  several
avenues for students to express their freedom and creativity. These events include workshops
and  competitions,  helping  students  showcase,  as  well  as  hone  their  talents.  The  following
clubs function under the WAVES cell:
The  Music  Club:  It  is  the  haven  for  the  musically  inclined,  dealing  with  the  entire  musical
spectrum, from Hindustani to Western, vocals and instrumentals.
The  Dance  Club:  It  consists  of  an  extremely  competitive  team  that  has  performed  at  festivals
across the country.
The  Drama  Club:  It  produces  a  wide  variety  of  plays,  including  comedy  and  Nukkad  (street
plays) that raise awareness about burning social issues.
Sports, Adventures, Games, and Explorations (SAGE)
Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations is an organization dedicated to the improvement
of  traditional  sports  education  and  to  the  configuring  of  a  unique  sports  culture  through
various competitions, festivals, disciplines, and social integration programs. The SAGE seeks
to  develop  a  system  that  brings  a  healthier  way  of  life  to  our  student  athletes,  helps  them
make better decisions, feel a winning attitude, and assists them in developing their skills and
abilities, thereby making them better human beings.
Sports  council  with  its  fabulous  performance  in  consecutive  4  Inter  IIT  festivals  has
motivated each  and every student of the  institute to be a part of  it and contribute to it even
further.  The  SAGE  has  been  successfully  organizing  various  inter  college  and  intra  college
festivals  in  every  academic  session  like  Varchas  and  Kridansh.  The  SAGE  also  has  the
recreational  clubs  such  as  Adventure  Club, Carom  Club,  Chess  Club,  Bridge  Club,  Skating
Club, and Yoga Club.
Promotion Relation Occasion Management (PROM)
Promotion  Relation  Occasion  Management,  (PROM),  is  the  5th  and  newest  cell  of  IIT
Jodhpur’s  Students  Council  For  Holistic  Development.  A  very  non-technical  cell,  PROM
deals  with  the  managerial  and  social  aspects  of  a  student’s  life  in  IIT  Jodhpur.  In  today’s
overly  competitive  world,  a  student  does  not  only  need  to  be  technically  sound,  but  also
capable of putting the deal across the table, and making a generally good impression among
their  peers,  superiors  and  juniors.  A  successful  person  today  is  recognised  by  the  ease  of
communication, body language, punctuality, self-confidence and motivational capabilities, as
well as proficiency in their field of interest. At IIT Jodhpur, students, through their academics
and other extra-curricular activities, attain technical proficiency of the highest level. With the
inception of PROM, it is absolutely certain that the students walking out of this campus will
also  be  able  to  take  control  and  execute  activities  and  jobs  as  required  from  them.  At  IIT
Jodhpur,  a  student  will,  thus,  participate  in  events  technical,  cultural,  or  sporty  in  nature,
while  also  learning  how  to  plan,  organise,  conduct  and  execute  such  events.  Students  will
also get an opportunity to express and experience as they move from under-graduate students
to  mature,  full-grown  individual  personalities.  PROM  provides  a  platform  for  budding
businessmen,  entrepreneurs,  and  managers.  It  inculcates  in  the  individual  a  sense  of
responsibility  and  purpose,  and  helps  them  decide  a  plan  of  action  to  go  about  tackling
Major Student Events
The students were successful in nurturing a culture filled with energy and initiative. Students
have  organized  several  events,  which  served  as  a  medium  of  communication  and  bonding
among  them,  given  their  variegated  background  and  ethnicity.  Several  major  festivals  like
Diwali, Lohri, Eid and Holi were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Various sports activities
were  also  regularly  conducted  to  encourage  sportsmanship.  The  faculty  members  were
greatly supportive and promoted these activities. The following are some of the major student
activities that had taken place in the campus in the academic year 2011-2012:
The  inter-hostel  cultural  festival Spandan  celebrated  from 21  to 23 October, 2011 was a  big
hit.  The  theme  being  ‘Rural  India,’  the  whole  of  G.P.R.A  (the  residential  campus)  was
decked up to look like a village with huts, pots at places. The evening marked its beginning
with  a  musical  event  blending  the  Indian  classical,  tabla  with  the  rock  electric  guitar.  This
was followed by Rajasthani folk dance-’Kalbeliya Dance’ by professionals. The competitions
began with Arangetram, on the spot solo dance, and Antakshari. The Spandan weekend was
full  of  events  leaving  all  enthralled.  This  intra  college  festival  aimed  at  increasing  the
interaction among students and gave all a platform to show their talents.
The  intra-college  technical  festival  of  IIT  Jodhpur,  NiMBLE  was  celebrated  from  4th-6th
November,  2011.  There  were  20  events  as  part  of  this  festival.  The  theme  this  year’s
NiMBLE was “The Battleground” and the entire college was divided into 8 teams with cut-
throat competitions to test their technical competence.
It  is  the  annual  intra-college  sports  festival  of  IITJ.  It  is  the  fest  which  has  seen  maximum
participation over the years. There have been three editions of this fest and competitions in all
the  major  sports  are  conducted.  Also  many  informal  events  like  Obstacle  race,  6x100  m
mixed relay and street cricket are played. This has been enjoyed enormously by everyone.
‘IGNUS  2012′  consisted  of  VARCHAS  (the  sports  festival)  and  TAKSH  (the  techno-cult-
Varchas:  This  is  the  annual  sports  festival  of  IIT  Jodhpur.  Competitions  in  sports  such  as
Football, Volleyball, Basketball, Badminton, Table Tennis,  Athletics, Lawn Tennis, Cricket
and Chess were organized. The events attracted participants from all over the country. It saw
the participation of over 500 athletes. The sponsorship for the fest was really good and saw
generous  funding  for  all  the  events.  Excellent  facilities  were  made  available  for  the  sports-
persons participating in the events. This festival held up the expectations of an IIT.
Taksh:  This  techno-cult  festival  of  IIT  Jodhpur  saw  enormous  participation.  One  of  the
biggest attractions of the day—the Taj IIT Conclave, the young entrepreneurship meet was a
phenomenal success and saw an enthusiastic turn up from students. The most eagerly awaited
attraction of the  festival  was the  band performance  by  Ashwamedh, a renowned  band  from
Pune.  Students  went  berserk  as  Ashwamedh  rocked  the  stage  with  a  mind  blowing
Independence Day Celebrations
The second Independence Day celebration of the Institute at Jodhpur was held on 15 August
2011. The Director, faculty members, staff and students were present. The function started in
the  morning  of  August  15  at  the  Academic  campus  with  the  Director  hoisting  the  national
flag,  followed  by  the  Director’s  address  and  various  cultural  programs  organized  by  the
Republic Day Celebrations
The Republic Day  celebration 2012 started with  a parade of the  security wing,  followed by
the  Director’s  hoisting  of  the  national  flag.  The  Director’s  address  emphasized  the
significance of the day. The celebration witnessed several cultural programs organized by the
Gandhi Jayanthi Celebrations
IIT Jodhpur community gathered on 2 October 2011 to celebrate the birthday of the father of
the  nation  Mahatma  Gandhi.  The  function  was  illuminated  by  the  inspiring  speeches  of
faculty members and student representatives.
Parivarthan  is a  social  initiative undertaken  by IIT Jodhpur community.  We are  working  in
the direction of making an educated and well informed society around us. It is an initiative to
improve education  level and awareness  in the poor and deprived section of society through
teaching, youth counselling, and parent counselling. We adopt a village which is very poor,
literacy rate is very low, where basic facilities of life like health, water, shelter, education etc
are  not  easily  available.  Our  objective  is  to  convert that  village  into  a  developed  village  in
such  a  manner  that  it  will  represent  an  ideal  model  of  developed  village  in  21st  century.
According  to the  plan,  separate  strategies  for  the  welfare  of  child,  adult  or  working  people
and old people will be followed.
1) Children: quality education will be made available to them
2) Adult or working people: our attempt will be to enhance the skills of working population
of that village through small workshop or training. And also increase the employment
opportunity for skilled labour through our network in city or provide them opportunity to earn
by working at their home itself.
3) Old People: we will try to ensure good health to old people and also try to shape their role
as moral guard in the village so that unethical and unfair acts in the village can be
Studying  at  IIT  will  bring  about  tremendous  academic  growth  and  overall  development;
however,  it will also be accompanied  by  significant challenges and considerable stress. Our
counselling  services  team  provides  personalized  guidance  and  necessary  resources  to  help
students  under  duress  to  achieve  their  goals.  The  counselling  service  is  a  voluntary
organization  formed  by  a  group  of  dedicated  students  guided  by  faculty  members.  It  helps
students deal with various problems both personal and academic, and plays a significant role
in enriching their experiences as students in the institute.
The counselling service was formed in the year 2009 by the first batch of students under the
supervision  of  a  faculty  advisor.  Over  the  years  it  has  evolved  into  a  significant  body
comprising of seven faculty members and a total of 25 students. Student guides and members
of the counselling team are selected through an annual election process. Each student guide is
responsible  for  the  wellbeing  of  8-10  students  from  the  1st  year  undergraduate  batch.  The
counselling service strives for the well being of all students and assists in their academic and
personal growth. It provides voluntary, confidential and free counselling for a wide range of
issues that include:
● Academic support: Provides  information about the different academic programmes of the
institute, efficient time management skills, study skills, exam anxiety etc.
● Personal: Overcoming home-sickness, adjustment to new environment etc.
● Counselling advocacy, psycho-education and referral services to students
● Interaction with the institute and the existing body of students
● Encourages students discover extra-curricular interests/hobbies
Student Placement Cell
The Student Placement Cell (SPC)  is entirely run and  managed  by the  students  in  harmony
with  the  official  authorities,  thereby  taking  care  of  the  entire  placement  and  internship
procedure. The students coordinate the job of contacting various companies, their interaction
with the students, arranging pre-placement talks, tests, interviews.
In the academic year 2011-2012, SPC organised two soft skills workshop in which   eminent
speakers guided the students on personality development and interview skills.
The speakers were:
Lorraine Coutinho (Latitude Group)
Dr Prashant Jha
The  placement  session  was  divided  into  two  parts  which  went  on  for  the  first  10  days  of
December 2011 and then from 10 Jan- 25 Jan 2012. Many companies in core engineering, IT,
and banking sector, including Microsoft, National Instruments, Samsung, Flipkart, and ARM,
have  visited  IIT  Rajasthan  since  then.  Public  sector  companies  have  also  participated  in
IIT  Jodhpur  proudly  saw  its  first  batch  of  B.  Tech.students  Completing  their  academic
program in April 2012. An Allumni Association was formed in order to provide them with a
platform  where  they  can  stay  connected  to  the  institute,  their  fellow  alumni,  and  junior
List of Students
Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit
Deepak Kumar Chhangani
Vikas Pratap Singh
Vikash Chandra Janu
Surendra Singh Barala
Puneet Kumar Jain
Ram Niwash Mahia
Ravi Raj Choudhary
M. Tech Students
Parag Kamal Talukdar
Ram Niwas Verma
Vinod Kumar Verma
Deepak Kumar Gupta
Nakul Shashikant Goud
Zafar Ahmed Ansari
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2008
Abhash Kumar Singh
Anil Kumar Alwaria
Appoorve Kaushal Arya
Arjun Pandian T
Maruthi Chand Bhogireddi
Coutinho Brain Camilo
D Vijay Kumar
Deepak Kumar Gupta
Dibya Deepta Mishra
Digumarti Sundara Tejaswi
Dushyant Pratap Singh
Gorle Venkata Ramana
Gurram Krishna Sudhama
Haresh Kumar Solanki
Jothishwaran C A
Kamble Shivanjali Sadashiv
Lal Chand Bisu
Maitri Rohit Vishwanath
Masuram Kiran Kumar
Nadipelly Suraj Rao
Nakka Chanakya Dev
Nuthalapati Rahul Pavan Kumar
Obbani Chaitanya Deepthi
P A Vinay Kumar
Pradumn Kumar Pandey
Priya Ranjani Das B
Sachin Kumar Singh
Sandeep Singh Tomar
Sankalp Kumar Singh
Tara Chand Khorwal
Tejas Vijay Muley
Vaibhav Kumar Singh
Vemuluru Venkata Sri Harsha
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2009
Akshay Hari Kumar
Amit Ranjan Trivedi
Aswin Siva N
Ayyer Rishi Kalyan
B Amulya Sai
Devula Vinay Kumar
Ganduri Rahul Goutham
Gundre Vaibhav Pralhad
Harshit Kumar Pancholi
Joshi Darshan Rajeev
Kumar Ashayam Gupta
Lakhan Singh Jatav
M. Vidhya Sagar
Manish Kumar Jain
Manvendra Singh Chauhan
Mohammed Aquibuddin Ahmed
Naveen Kumar Gautam
Nithin Kumar Kokkisa
Pawan Kumar Sharma
Prashant Kumar Shukla
Radhe Shyam Meena
Rajput Shailendra Shesh Kumar
Rameshwar Prasad Meghwal
Ravin Kumar Jain
Sanjay Kumar Rajak
Sanjay Kumar Rav
Shah Chintan Chirag
Surendra S Choudhary
Syed Faizul Hai
Tambade Narendra Satish
Tokala Sai Teja
Vennam Samuel Susmith
Yogesh Kumar Verma
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2010
UG201010001  Abhishek Anand
UG201010002  Aman Deep
UG201010003  Amar Singh Saini
UG201010004  Anurag Saini
UG201010005  Bollempalli Trivikram Chowdary
UG201010006  Dheeraj Tak
UG201010007  Godugu Ravi Kiran
UG201010008  Hemlata Soni
UG201010010  Kanchan Kumari
UG201010011  Khusheeram Meena
UG201010012  Kishor Mehra
UG201010013  Lalit Yadav
UG201010014  Mahesh Chand Gurjar
UG201010015  Mandeep Singh Yadav
UG201010016  Manish Kumawat
UG201010017  Manpreet Singh Bedi
UG201010018  Mohd Asad
UG201010019  Mohd Hamzah Khan
UG201010021  Narendra Meena
UG201010022  Nishchay Kala
UG201010028  Reena Yadav
UG201010029  Rohit Gupta
UG201010037  Tapish Rathore
UG201010038  Vemana Vinith
UG201010039  Vikas Goyal
UG201010040  Vikas Yadav
UG201010041  Vinod  Kumar Meena
UG201010042  Vishwas Garg
UG201010043  Yogesh Kumar Gupta
UG201010044  Manu Agarwal
UG201011001  Aayush Verma
UG201011002  Amit Kumar Verma
UG201011003  Arun Balajee V
UG201011004  Bharat Kumar Tanwar
UG201011005  Chintapalli Siva Pratheek
UG201011006  Dilip Kumar Meena
UG201011008  Ghatge Mayur Sambhaji
Sukalkar Pavan Vijayrao
Surendra Singh Meena
Pote Rohan Ramchandra
UG201011009  Himanshu Jaiswal
UG201011010  Mahesh Chandra M
UG201011011  Manish Kumar Meena
UG201011013  Mukul Bansal
UG201011014  Narendra Kumar Singh
UG201011016  Nimmarthi Vara Prasad
UG201011021  Rahul Malav
UG201011022  Rahul Meena
UG201011023  Rajat Jain
UG201011024  Rajeev Kumar
UG201011025  Ravi Mahavar
UG201011026  Rinku Meena
UG201011027  Rishi Kumar
UG201011028  Rit Shekhawat
UG201011039  Tarun Patel
UG201011040  Tirumani Vamshi Krishna
UG201011041  Veepee Singh Meena
UG201011042  Vikash Kumar
UG201011043  Vinod Meena
UG201011044  Vivek Dubey
UG201011045  Yogendra Kumar Goyal
UG201011046  Aswin Suresh
UG201011047  Hemant Verma
UG201012002  Aditya Budaraju
UG201012003  Aditya Ranjan
UG201012004  Akash Bansal
UG201012005  Akhilendra Singh
UG201012006  Aman Doharey
UG201012007  Ankur Hasija
UG201012008  Anshul Gupta
UG201012009  Anuj Kumar
UG201012010  Ashok Kumar Meena
Sandeep Kumar Singh
Siddharth Singh Rao
Shiv Singh Meena
Sudhir Kumar Singh
Surya Pratap Singh Yadav
Jagmohan Shree Rao
Jai Prakash Meena
UG201012012  Chetram Meena
UG201012014  Gudla Sushanth
UG201012015  Gaurav Kumar
UG201012021  Kuldeep Singh
UG201012022  Manraj Meena
UG201012023  Mohit Naneria
UG201012024  Niket Kumar Singh
UG201012025  Nishant Kumar
UG201012026  Nitesh Kumar
UG201012027  Nitin Katiyar
UG201012030  Rooga Ram
Shaikh Abu Amsal
UG201012039  Tanmay Sethi
UG201012040  Utkarsh Trivedi
UG201012041  Vasu Goenka
UG201012042  Vijay Singh Meena
UG201012043  Vipin Kumar
UG201012044  Vivek Ganj Gahlot
UG201012045  Yatin Chaudhary
UG201012046  Yogesh Kumar
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2011
Banoth Surya Prasad
Hari Om Gaur
Jitendra Kumar Chaudhary
Jitendra Singh Garhwal
Kankanti Nithin Veer Reddy
Kuchana Maharshi Devaraj
Pitta Divya Shree
Praneeth A S
Ravi Kumar Meena
Revti Raman Singh
Santosh Kumar Siddharth
Saurabh Kumar Gangwar
Shah Jenil Dilip
Siddharth Kumar Singh
Syed Navaid Ahmad
Yash Kumar Sonthalia
Gatla Rajasekhar Reddy
Anshul Narayan Bhatt
Anshul Singh Parihar
Battula Sasi Kaushik
Bussa Pavan Kumar
Devendra Kumar Jangid
Gajarla Ravi Teja
Guneet Singh Mehta
Hari Om Meena
Hem Singh Meena
Hemant Kumar Biloniya
Kadoo Amruta Anil
Krishna Kumar Damolia
Kuldeep Singh Rathore
Rangaraju Yashomani Srikar
Ravindra Kumar Sharma
Sanchit Kumar Singh
Satyendra Kumar Gautam
Voruganti Surya Teja
Alvin Roy Aliath
C Sri Harsha
Chilakamarri Satya Ranga Prasanth
Harsh Kumar Karmveer
Kunal Vishnu Paraswani
Kundan Singh Meena
Mukul Kumar Gupta
Navneet Kumar Yadav
Rahul Sathya Babu
Sagar Anand Ramgare
Sandeep Shankarrao Hatte
Tagde Prateek Prakash
Vaidya Kedar Sanjay
Atharv S Ghaisas
Desidi Siva Prakash
Jitendra Kumar Meena
Kowlagi Sudhendra Narayan
Kusum Lata Meena
M Hari Haran
Mohamed Rehan Mohamed Sagheer
Neha Singh Chauhan
Raj Rohit Jalem
Sankha Narayan Guria
Shinde Sahil Anil
Vinnakota Sai Rakshit
The  MHRD  has  released  a  sum  of  `6,622.30  Lakhs  as  Grant-in-Aid  under
Normal  Plan  Head  and  `1,854.58  Lakh  as  opening  balance  as  on  01-04-2011.
The  internal  income  of  the  Institute  was  `551.58  Lakh.  The  total  Plan
expenditure  during  the  year  was  `3,513.94  Lakhs  (Recurring  `1,493.95  Lakh
and Non-Recurring `2,069.00 Lakh).