INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY RAJASTHAN, JODHPUR
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Government of India
TABLE OF CONTENTS
From the Director’s Desk
From the Director’s Desk
After appointment on 19 May, 2009 as first Director of IIT Rajasthan I took over the charge from
the mentor Institute’s Director Prof. S.G. Dhande on 22 May 2009.
The creation of IIT Rajasthan started on a high note on many fronts during the academic year
2009-10.  The  city  of  Jodhpur  in  Rajasthan  was  declared  as  the  home  for  the  new  IIT.  A
renowned  scientist,  Prof.  Govardhan  Mehta  was  appointed  as  the  Chairman  of  its  Board.  A
number of  important decisions  were  taken during the year viz.  appointment  of the faculty  and
staff,  creation  of  the  academic  vision  document,  an  MoU  with  Jai  NarainVyas  University,
Jodhpur for establishing the temporary academic campus for IIT Rajasthan, the selection of the
GPRA  colony  on  the  Pali  Road,  Jodhpur  as  the  temporary  residential  campus  of  the  IIT
Rajasthan and so on. The Journey  of  IIT  Rajasthan began  in earnest  with  the plan to move to
Jodhpur in the summer of 2010.
At present, we have 214 students in the B. Tech Program.  Special short term courses in summer
and  winter  provide  students  an  opportunity  to  think  and  learn  beyond  the  syllabus.  The
interdisciplinary nature of B.Tech. projects trains the students to work together in a team spirit.
The lectures delivered by experts across the world in weekly seminars boost the enthusiasm of
the students to excel in diversified fields.
A  sum  of  MOUs  were  signed  between  IIT  Rajasthan  and  several  national  and  international
communities  viz.,  National  Informatics  Centre  (NIC),  New  Delhi,  and  National  Informatics
Centre Services Incorporated (NICSI) ( 14/09/2009), Jai Narayan Vyas University Jodhpur (27th
February  2010)  and  Memorandum  of  Conclusions-IIT  Rajasthan  Project  Visit  of  the  French
Delegations to Kanpur, 8-12 February 2010.
It is our vision that IIT Rajasthan becomes a Center of Excellence, creating highly proficient and
well  trained  entrepreneurs  who  shall  be  leading  the  society  by  excelling  in  academia  and
research.  With  firm  faith  in  interdisciplinary  research  approach,  we  envision  an  innovative
curriculum, driven by intellectual fervor and interwoven by the concept of Centers of Excellence
(CoE) which transcends traditional compartmentalization of Knowledge. Besides, Jodhpur being
known as Sun City (Soorya nagari), we conceptualize to establish an International Centre for
Solar  Technology  Park  here  at  Jodhpur  with  ample  opportunities  for  researchers  and  related
Industry  groups  to  work  here  and  also    for  the  State  and  the  Central  Government  alike,  and
establishment of Centres of Excellence wherein innovative curriculum, interdisciplinary research
and intellectual lead are woven together.
The  Land  for  the  Institute  has  been  identified  at  Karwar  on  Nagaur  Road,  by  the  Rajasthan
Government.    The  matter  is  vigorously  pursued  to  get  possession  of  the  land  and  we  plan  to
move to its own campus as soon as possible.
Conferences and Workshops
Memorandum of Understanding
The institute offers B.Tech. UG programmes in the following disciplines :
1.  Computer Science & Engineering
2.  Electrical Engineering
3.  Mechanical Engineering
The sanctioned strength of the students for the academic year (2009-2010) has been decided as 120 for 3
UG (B.Tech.) academic programme which CSE, EE and Mechanical Engineering with strength of 40
students each. The details of which are as under :
No. of Seats
* There will be 3% horizontal reservation for Physically Challenged category   students across all
categories, besides all the reservation & admission norms of Government of India presently in
vogue at all other IITs.
Based on the counseling of the qualified candidates in JEE 2009, 106 students were offered seats
in IIT Rajasthan
Conferences and Workshops
Indo-French Collaboration- I-Pod Activity
The  Director  organized  an  Indo-French  meeting  in  June,  2010  to  extend  the  Indo-French
collaboration initiated in the academic year 2008-2009. A number of delegates from the French
universities  (part  of  the  Consortium  headed  by  Prof.  Alan  Bravo)  and  French  multi-national
companies, with a strong presence in India, attended the meeting and debated on various aspects
of designing new academic programs and structure for IIT Rajasthan. The following time lines
indicate the various events of this collaboration culminating in the submission of the draft report
on July 10th 2009.
  November 2008,  Shillong - Project launched at workshop held in Shillong, India
  December 2008, Paris – Consortium and 3 working groups created
  January 14 , 2009  - Indian and French Partners signed a Plan of Action
  March  2009 – Meeting of Indian delegation led byMr. RP Agrawal, Secretary MHRD,
and representatives of the French Consortium for IIT  Rajasthan.
  March  and  April  2009  -  Several  French  representatives  visited  IIT    Rajasthan  at  the
campus of IIT Kanpur. IIT Kanpur is the mentor of IIT  Rajasthan project
  April 20, 2009 – French Consortium submits final IPOD
  May 22, 2009 – Prof. Kalra took over as Director of IIT  Rajasthan
  June  18  and  19,  2009  Kanpur  -  French  delegation,  Director  IIT    Rajasthan,  Faculty
from  IIT  Rajasthan and IIT Kanpur and representatives from  Industry participated in a
round  table  discussion  on  various  aspects  of  curriculum  design  and  Indo-French
  June  23,2009  Delhi  -  Representatives  of  the  French  Embassy,  French  delegation,
Director  IIT    Rajasthan,  and  Industry  representatives  met  to  explore  the  areas  where
French companies could collaborate with IIT  Rajasthan
  July 10, 2009 – IIT Rajasthan submitted draft IPOD
IIT Rajasthan also agreed to participate in the EU mobility program for exchange of students and
faculty.The details of the draft IPOD report are given in annexure 2.
Indo-French workshop on ICT for health and autonomy in ageing population:
This workshop sponsored by the DST was held from 17th – 19th March 2010 at the Taj Gateway
hotel at Jodhpur. One of the aims of IIT Rajasthan is to structure teaching and research around
multi-disciplinary Centres of Excellence (CoE). One of the core areas will be related to ICT for
Health  and  Autonomy.  Each  of  the  CoEs  will  include  French  participation,  with  the  aim  of
creating Indo-French research projects in this area. Currently, research in India has yet to take off
in this domain, with the exception of specific telemedicine projects. The Indian  Department of
Science and Technology (DST), (the equivalents of which are ANR and the research component
of the MESR in France) have agreed to fund the workshop in order to facilitate the creation of
quality Indo-French projects for funding.
The  delegation  from  the  École  Normale  Supérieure  (“ENS”)  deCachan,  including  their
President,  visited  IIT  Rajasthan  in  Jan  2010.  Besides  other  academic  matters,  the  discussion
included the postdoctoral fellowships granted under a previous Indo-French scheme. They also
floated the possibility of fresh Ph.Ds in France who could then take up faculty positions at the
IIT  Rajasthan  and  other  new  IITs.The  President  of  the  ENS,  Cachan  pointed  out  that  EADS
innovation  works  together.  Their  university  has  a  collaborative  venture  which  can  serve  as  a
model for IIT Rajasthan and Industry interaction.
Prof. David Hewson, Dr. Timothy and Dr. Harve from the UTT (Troyes, France) visited the
IIT  Rajasthan.  Dr.  Timothy  and  Dr.  Harve  interacted  with  faculty  from  IIT  Kanpur  and  IIT
Rajasthan  and  suggested  a  revised  science  core  curriculum  for  IIT  Rajasthan.    They  felt  that
rather than have a science core and engineering core, a judicious mix of science and engineering
core may be more effective.
Professor Pierre Becker from ENS, Paris also visited IIT Rajasthan and he interacted with the
students and shared a course with Dr. Amit Neogi.
Prof.(Dr.) R.M.M. Matthe from Netherlands visited IIT Rajasthan in Jan 2010 and was honored
as the chief guest during the Republic day celebration of Jan 2010. He interacted with the faculty
of IIT Rajasthan to create a center for Industrial Mathematics. Dr. Chandramouli interacted with
him extensively and has been entrusted with the task of collaborating with the Dutch researchers.
At  an  EU-India  collaborative  session  in  New  Delhi,  Prof.  Rajiv  Shekhar  made  a  presentation
about the opportunities for the European Union at the IIT Rajasthan.
Meeting  on  support  programs  for  reserved  category  students  at  Technical  Educational
IIT Rajasthan participated in the one day meeting organized by NIAS, Bangalore on 30 Jan 2010
to  discuss  support  programs  for  reserved  category  candidates  in  the  Technical  Educational
Institutes.  Representatives  from  IIT  Delhi  (  Prof.  Balakrishnan),  IIT  Bombay  (Prof.  Kaushal
Deb),  IIT Chennai (Prof. Murali), IIT Kharagpur (Prof. S.K. Roy), NIT Suratkal, NIT Calicut,
MS  Ramaiah  College  of  engineering,  CREST  team    from  IIM  Calicut  (led  by  Prof.  D.D.
Nampoothiri),  NIAS  (Prof.  V.S.  Ramamurthy  and  Prof.  Vasavi)  were  present  during  the
Prof.  Ramamurthy  and  Prof.  Vasavi  circulated  a  concept  note  (draft  version)  prepared  in
collaboration with CREST (Center for Research and Training in Social Transformation Calicut,
Kerala).  On  the  eve  of  the  meeting,  a  draft  paper  by  Prof.  M.  Balakrishnan  of  IIT  Delhi
(Performance of Reserved Category Students: IIT Delhi case study) and an article by Thomas E.
Weisskopf  in Economic and  Political  Weekly, Sept 25,  2004  titled  “Impact of Reservation on
Admissions to higher education in India” were also given to the participants.
A pilot project with CREST and IITD was planned for the year 2010. This project involved an
orientation program  of about  one month.  NIAS  undertook some further studies  to identify  the
root causes and issue a report in the year 2010.
It was felt that IIT Rajasthan could on its own, organize an orientation program for the next batch
of  students  to  be  admitted  in  the  year  2010.  This  program  may  include  all  students  and  not
segregate the students based on category.
Preliminary activities to establish the solar energy center at the IIT Rajasthan:
IIT Rajasthan Director Prof. P.K. Kalra toured Spain with the delegation from the Ministry of
New  and  Renewable  energy  (MNRE)  with  a  view  to  gain  firsthand  knowledge  of  the  solar
energy  research  and  development  activities.  It  was  proposed  to  organize  an  Indo-European
workshop  on  solar  energy  at  Jodhpur  in  April  2010  to  discuss  the  modalities  of  solar  energy
research at the IIT Rajasthan. The workshop invitees would include academicians, Industry and
Government representatives as well as Embassy officials from France, Netherlands and German
Financial  institutions  such  as  KFW  and  German  development  arm  GTZ.  World  Bank  also
offered  to  sponsor  the  workshop  along  with  the  Ministry  of  New  and  Renewable  Energy
(MNRE).  IIT  Rajasthan  registered  itself  as  the  vendor  with  the  World  Bank  to  enable  this
To kick start the solar energy activity, Prof. Rajiv Shekhar, Wing Commander V.K. Parashar and
Dr.  B.  Ravindra  finalized  a  purchase  order  to  establish  a  100  kW  roof  top  solar  photovoltaic
plant  at  the  Jodhpur  campus  of  IIT  Rajasthan.  The  contract  was  awarded  to  Moser  Baer
Photovoltaic  Limited  as  they  turned  out  to  be  the  lowest  bidders.  Wing  Commander  V.K.
Parashar and Dr. Ravindra of the IIT Rajasthan also attended Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar
mission launch at New Delhi and distributed the attached flier to attract potential partners to set
up captive solar power plants on the permanent campus of the IIT Rajasthan at Jodhpur.
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
1.  National Informatics Centre (NIC), New Delhi, and
National Informatics Centre Services Incorporated (NICSI) ( 14/09/2009)
A MoU was signed  on 14th September, for Creation off Virtual Class-Rooms at IITs over
National  Knowledge  Network(NKN)  between    National  Informatics  Centre  (NIC),  A
Block, CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi and National Informatics Centre Services
Incorporated (NICSI), Hall No. 2 & 3 , 6th Floor, NBCC Tower-15, Bhikaiji Cama Place,
New Delhi with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Rajasthan, IITK Camus, Kanpur.
2.  Jai Narayan Vyas University Jodhpur (27th February 2010)
A MoU was signed on 27th February 2010 with Jai Narayan Vyas University Jodhpur for
providing premises already build-up and available as well as for the premises that JNVU
will construct for which a monthly rent of Rs. 2161374/- will be paid by IIT Rajasthan to
JNVU, Jodhpur. The rent has been decided based on the fair monthly rent as defined by
PWD and Govt. Rules.
3.  Memorandum of Conclusions-IIT Rajasthan Project
Visit of the French Delegations to Kanpur,8-12 February 2010
A  MoU  of  conclusions  was  signed  for  modified  version  of  POD,  Plan  for  action  per
centre of excellence for organizing workshops in March 17-19 2010 for ICTH, in April –
Energy and in September 2010 for ICT. And organization of French professors’ mobility
and  other  business  relating  to  Sun  City  and  Solar  Plan  of  IIT  Rajasthan, possibility  to
expend and open the French consortium to other partners – industrial and agencies, also
explore the ideas of launching of Master Programme for fresh batch of B.Tech. students.
Registration of new batch of B.Tech students at the IIT Rajasthan
Gymkhana formation at the IIT Rajasthan
Registration of new batch of B.Tech students at the IIT Rajasthan:
On 19th July, 2009, the fresh batch of 106 students for B.Tech in three streams i.e. Mechanical,
Electrical and Computer Science arrived at the IIT Rajasthan.  An information brochure was sent
to them in  advance.  A help desk was  arranged  at House No:  512, Near  Central  School of  IIT
Kanpur. The orientation program was held at the Outreach Building, IIT Kanpur. The Director,
in his address, also mentioned that the students would be eventually relocated to the new place in
Rajasthan where the new IIT would be established.
The help desk, IIT Rajasthan monitors the academic performance of those students who are not
able  to  meet  the  academic  requirements.    Additional  assistance  was  provided  to  the  desired
students  including  professional  counseling  and  personalized  psychiatric  care.  The  students
signed an anti-ragging declaration.
The Mentor-Director of IIT Rajasthan and the faculty & staff of the IIT Kanpur completed the
first academic year of IIT Rajasthan when they conducted the end semester examination of the
first  year  students  of  IIT  Rajasthan  admitted  in  2008.  Soon  after  the  establishment  of  IIT
Rajasthan in 2008.
Foundation  day  celebrations:  The  entire  IIT  Rajasthan  fraternity  gathered  to  celebrate  the
foundation day on 2nd August 2009. The programme commenced with an invigorating speech by
the  Director  followed  by  multihued  performances  by  the  multi-cultural  students  of  the
Independence Day celebrations: 15th August 2009- The morning commenced with the hoisting
of  the  National  Flag  by  the  Director  followed  by  the  singing  of  the  National  Anthem.  The
Director  instilled  patriotic  fervour  in  the  students  with  his  speech  followed  by  student
representatives  voicing  their  views  on  issues  of  contemporary  concern  for  the  Nation.  The
students of IIT Rajasthan gave various riveting cultural performances.
Republic day celebrations: 26th January 2010 - The celebration commenced with the hoisting of
the National Flag by the Director followed by the singing of the National Anthem. The Director
delivered an inspiring patriotic message to rouse patriotism in the students. This was followed by
students’ views on issues of contemporary concern for the Nation.
Gandhi Jayanti Celebration
The Gandhi Jayanti Day was celebrated on 2nd October in order to commemorate the high moral
values and great deeds of the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi. The Director, in his message,
pointed out the significance of his values in the present context.
Gymkhana formation at the IIT Rajasthan-The second Gymkhana elections for the various
posts were conducted during March 2010. The elections led to the formation of the Students’
Senate of IIT Rajasthan containing both executive and representative members from the student
Spandan ’09 was the first Intra Institute cultural festival, held in the month of September and
included performances by the students of various arts ,such as dramatics, dance, singing and
oratory etc. The event was conducted in the main auditorium of IIT Kanpur and was followed
by  a  special  dinner  for  all  the  faculty,  staff  and  students  of  IIT  Rajasthan.  A  gallery,
showcasing  the  art  and  craft  work  by  the  students,  was  organized  by  the  students  on  this
Nimble-Nimble  is  an  annual  Inter  Institute  technical  fest of  the Institute. This festival  had
events  in  many  fields  such  as  electronics,  robotics,  astronomy  etc.  and  served  as  a
competitive platform for the students to match their technical skill and test their innovation.
It  gave  students  the  required  exposure  and  training  to  participate  in  various  national  and
international events. Lectures, workshops and live demonstrations enriched the fest.
At  present  IIT  Rajasthan  functioning  at  the  Campus  of  IIT  Kanpur  on  the  second  floor  of  the  newly
constructed  Helicopter  research  building.  All  major  Labs,  Computer  Centers  and  Central  Library  and
other facilities were provided by IIT Kanpur.
For the purpose of establishing temporary offices, the IIT Kanpur has earmarked certain facilities like big
office space for the use of IIT Rajasthan on the second floor of the newly constructed Helicopter research
building, for setting up the Director’s office, Administrative, Academic, Students, Faculty offices  along
with Study Space, Computer Centre, Library etc.
The state of art Lecture Halls of IIT Kanpur will be shared on alternate shift basis. The classes for the IIT
Rajasthan will be held in the afternoon session during which the availability of IITK class-rooms is
ensured. On joining of 106 students some addition facilities for Lecture halls were provided.
The highly advanced and technically equipped state of art laboratories of IIT Kanpur will be shared on
shift basis. The Labs experimentation for the IIT Rajasthan will be held in the morning session during
which the availability is ensured. On joining of 106 students some addition facilities in labs were
For the stay of IIT Rajasthan Students on the Campus of IIT Kanpur existing 7 two storeyed Type V
apartments are being furnished in the dormitory model for accommodating about fifteen students in each
apartment in the middle of the faculty houses, providing ample ambience for comfortable stay of IIT
Rajasthan Students on the green campus of IIT Kanpur. Dining facility is also provided in one of the
student housing apartments. On joining of 106 students some addition facilities for hostel were provided.
Top floor of Helicopter research building of IIT Kanpur allocated for IIT Rajasthan, a space has been
earmarked for Library purpose. For the purpose of borrowing reference books and referring the journals, a
highly equipped multi-storeyed P K Kelkar Library with digital archiving and on line reference was also
made available on specific terms of usage for IIT Rajasthan students.
Initially the computer Centre of IIT Kanpur has been shared on available slots. Top floor of Helicopter
research building of IIT Kanpur allocated for IIT Rajasthan, a space has been earmarked for development
of Computer Center Lab. All the hostels are equipped with Internet facility.
The students of IIT Rajasthan were allowed to avail the medical OPD services at the Primary Health
Centre of IIT Kanpur under Institutional tie up.
Critical and emergency health care was arranged to be availed from identified super and multi specialty
hospitals including tie-up with Regency Hospital in the city of Kanpur on cashless hospitalization tie up
taking individual medical insurance from public sector medical insurance provider. For this purpose
medical insurance was made compulsory for all the students of IIT Rajasthan.
Besides above security and housekeeping facilities were also provided to IIT Rajasthan students by the
Inter  IIT  Sports  Meet-  Medals-In  the  month  of  December  ’09  a  contingent  of  50  students
participated  in  the  45th  Annual  Inter  IIT  sports  meet  held  in  IIT  Kanpur.The  students
participated in  many sports events  like aquatics,  athletics,  badminton, basketball,  discus throw
etc . Bronze medals were won by Swathi Manda and Priya Ranjani Das in discus throw (girls)
and 400 meters race (girls) respectively.
Board of Governors
Building & Works Committee
B.Tech. Student Batch 2008
B.Tech. Student Batch 2009
Board of Governors
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Prof. Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS)
University of Hyderabad
Department of Organic Chemistry,
Central University PO,
Hyderabad - 500 046,
Prof. Prem K. Kalra
Director, IIT Rajasthan
Old Residency Road, Ratanada,
Jodhpur - 342011
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
Mr. Ashok Thakur
Department of Higher Education,
Ministry of Human Resource Development,
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi- 110 001
Mr. Kaushal Pal Singh
Chairman, DLF Limited
DLF Center, Sansad Marg
New Delhi 110 001
Mr. Ashank Desai
Mastek Limited, #106/107
SDF-IV, Seepz, Andheri(E)
Dr. Amrita Patel
Chairman, National Dairy Development Board,
Anand, PB No. 40, Anand 388001
State Government Nominee
Mr. Vipin Chandra Sharma
Government of Rajasthan
Prof. S G Dhande
Director, IIT Kanpur
Dy. Director, IIT Rajasthan
Prof. Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS)
University of Hyderabad
Department of Organic Chemistry,
Central University PO,
Hyderabad - 500 046,
Prof. Prem K. Kalra
Director, IIT Rajasthan
Old Residency Road, Ratanada,
Jodhpur - 342011
Mr. Ashok Thakur
Department of Higher Education,
Ministry of Human Resource Development,
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi- 110 001
Mr. G S Sood
CMD National Scheduled Tribe,
NBCC Tower, Finance & Development
Hall No 1, 5th Floor, 15 Bhikaji Cama Place
New Delhi 110 066
Mr. Umesh Kumar (IAS)
Bajaj Nagar Road,
Mr. S K Ray
Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of HRD, Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi - 110001
BUILDING & WORKS COMMITTEE
Prof. Prem K. Kalra
Director, IIT Rajasthan
Old Residency Road, Ratanada,
Jodhpur - 342011
Ms. Pratima Dikshit
Department of Technical Education,
Ministry of Human Resource Development,
New Delhi 110 001
Mr. N.M.D. Jain
ADG, CPWD (Retd.),
170, 1st Floor, Jagriti Enclave,
Ms. Usha Kasana
Public Works Department
Government of Rajasthan
Jacob Road, Jaipur
Prof. Neeraj Gupta
1.  Prof. P.K. Kalra
2.  Dr. R.C. Sharma
3.  Dr. Amit Neogi,
4.  Dr. B. Ravindra,
5.  Dr. Bibhas Adhikari,
6.  Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli,
7.  Dr. Rajeev Srivastava,
8.  Dr. Sandeep Yadav
9.  Dr. Srirupa Chatterjee,
10.  Wing Commander V.K. Parashar,
11.  Dr. Vivek Vijay,
12.  Dr. Anupam Gupta,
Staff Members :
1.  Mr. Amardeep Sharma,
2.  Mr. Mohit Arora,
3.  Mr. Vinay Kumar,
4.  Mr. Gaurav Nigam,
5.  Mr. Sandeep Singh Chandel,
6.  Mr. Dhani Ram,
7.  Ms. Swati,
8.  Ms. Neha Khullar,
The  IIT  Rajasthan  students  elected  1  president  and  4  secretaries  viz.,  (i)  Science  and  Technology,  (ii)
Cultural,  (iii)  Sports  and  (iv)  Films  and  Festivals  and  formed  and  students  activity  committee  to
coordinate with the Students Gymkhana with IIT Kanpur.
1.  President, IIT Rajasthan Committee
2.  Secretary, Science and Technology
3.  Secretary, Cultural
4.  Secretary, Sports
5.  Secretary, Films and Festivals
Dibya Deepta Mishra
G. Krishna Sudhama
List of students
B.Tech. Students Batch 2008
Abhash Kumar Singh
Amit Kumar Patel
Anil Kumar Alwaria
Appoorve Kaushal Arya
Maruthi Chand Bhogireddi
Brian Camilo Coutinho
D. Vijay Kumar
Deepak Kumar Gupta
Dibya Deepta Mishra
Digumarti Sundara Tejaswi
Dushyant Pratap Singh
Gorle Venkata Ramana
Gurram Krishna Sudhama
Haresh Kumar Solanki
Kamble Shivanjali Sadashiv
Lal Chand Bisu
Maitri Rohit Vishwanath
Masuram Kiran Kumar
Nuthalapati Rahul Pavan Kumar
O. Chaitanya Deepthi
P A Vinay Kumar
Patel Hardik Kumar
Pradumn Kumar Pandey
Priya Ranjani Das B
Sachin Kumar Singh
Sandeep Singh Tomar
Sankalp Kumar Singh
Tejas Vijay Muley
Vaibhav Kumar Singh
B.Tech. Students Batch 2009
Akshay Hari Kumar
Amit Ranjan Trivedi
Amol Vikram Pol
Aswin Siva N
Ayyer Rishi Kalyan
B. Amulya Sai
Devula Vinay Kumar
Ganduri Rahul Goutham
Gundre Vaibhav Pralhad
Harshit Kumar Panchali
Joshi Darshan Rajeev
Kumar Ashayam Gupta
Lakhan Singh Jatav
M. Vidhya Sagar
Manish Kumar Jain
Manvendra Singh Chauhan
Mohammed Aquibuddin Ahmed
Naveen Kumar Gautam
Nithin Kumar Kokkisa
Pawan Kumar Sharma
Prashant Kumar Shukla
Radhe Shyam Meena
Rajput Shailendra Shesh Kumar
Rameshwar Prasad Meghwal
Ravin Kumar Jain
Sanjay Kumar Rajak
Sanjay Kumar Rav
Shah Chintan Chirag
Surendra S. Choudhary
Syed Faizul Hai
Tambade Narendra Satish
Tokala Sai Teja
Vennam Samuel Susmith
Yogesh Kumar Verma
Purchase Manual of IIT Rajasthan
The BOG has approved the Purchase Manual of IIT Rajasthan in its First Meeting held on 14th
February 2010 at Transit Accommodation of IIT Kanpur located at J-1940, Chitranjan Park, New
Delhi. The stores and purchase committee of the IIT Rajasthan began to avail the laboratory fund
granted by  the  MHRD.  A number  of  faculty  and  staff  members of  the  IIT Kanpur  generously
helped in the process. A number of equipments were purchased for the language lab, workshop,
CNC  lab,  PCB  Rapid  prototyping  lab,  Chemistry  lab,  Robotics  and  control,  Electrical
engineering, Physics and Biology.  A 100 kW Photovoltaic plant was also ordered from Moser
Baer Photovoltaic limited.
The Ministry of HRD released a sum of Rs.3600.00 Lakh as grant-in-aid under Plan Head and
Rs.340.34 Lakh as opening balance as on 01-04-2009.   The internal income of the Institute was
Rs.226.78  Lakh  .The  total  Plan  expenditure during  the  year  was  Rs.2853.85  Lakh  (Recurring
Rs.695.28 Lakh and Non-Recurring Rs.2,158.57 Lakh)