School of Liberal Arts
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Climate Change: A Socio-geological Perspective
Climate Change: A Socio-geological Perspective
October 11-12, 2023 (Hybrid Mode)
IIT  Jodhpur  has  been  established  with  the  vision  of  “A
institute  for  nurturing  excellence  of
knowledge;  and  using  transformational  technologies  /
interventions  with  a  multidisciplinary  approach  for
responding to societal challenges and aspirations.”
The  School  of  Liberal  Arts  (SoLA)  at  IIT  Jodhpur
promotes  the  idea  of  transformation  by  breaking  the
transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary means, making an
active  intervention  that  will  strengthen  the  existing
research ecosystem of the institute. SoLA believes in a
novel,  open,  futuristic,  trans-disciplinary,  and  inclusive
liberal humanist approach, that not only engages with
the  human,  non-human,  and  planetary,  but  also
amplifies  the  diverse  possibilities  and  potentials  of
DAAD  (Deutscher  Akademischer  Austauschdienst)
is  the  German  Academic  Exchange  Service,  a
prestigious  organization  promoting  international
academic exchange and cooperation. Established
in  1925,  the  motto  of  the  DAAD  is  “Change  by
Exchange”.  It  stimulates  internationalization  and
global  responsibility.  It  acts  as  an  independent
intermediary  between  various  partners  and  their
opportunities for students, researchers, and faculty
programs  between  German
partners  globally,  fostering  cultural  understanding
and knowledge exchange.
& climate change
Dr. Farhat Naz
(DAAD Research Ambassador)
Associate Professor and Head,
SoLA, IIT Jodhpur
Dr. Amar Agarwal
(DAAD Research Ambassador)
Assistant Professor, IIT Kanpur
Dr. K. J. George
Associate Professor, IIT Jodhpur
Mr. Atul Pandey
PhD Scholar, IIT Jodhpur
Ms. Isha Sharma
PhD Scholar, IIT Jodhpur
The selected papers, after peer and editorial review, will be published in a Springer edited volume
Submit your Abstract
Deadline: 25/09/2023  01/10/2023Registration fee:Indian National: ₹ 1000External/ International: $ 50