Updated Program Structure for M Tech SIoT
Overall Program Structure
Category  M. Tech. Core
M. Tech. Elective
M. Tech. Open
M. Tech. Project
Semester wise distribution of credits
Cat.  Course Title
Cat.  Course Title
Bridge  Course  on  Introduction  to
MC  Sensors and Measurement
MC  Data  Communication  and
MC  Introduction to IoT Systems
MC  Hardware  Software  Co-
ME  Program Elective-2
MC  Analog and Interfacing Circuits  3-0-2  4
ME  Program Elective-3
ME  Program Elective-1
ME  Program Elective-4
NG  Technical Communication
MC  Winter Internship
ME  Program Elective-5
MO  Open Elective-2
ME  Program Elective-6
NG  Professional Ethics
MO  Open Elective-1
NG  System  Engineering  and  Project
#Satisfactory grade in the bridge course will be mandatory for students to be able to participate in on-
List of Program Electives
Digital VLSI Design
Flexible and Printed Electronics
Real Time Communications
Mobile and Pervasive Computing  3-0-0 3
RF IC Design Lab
Introduction  to  Wireless  Ad  Hoc
Advanced Digital Signal Processing  3-0-0 3
Software Defined Networks
Fog and Edge Computing
Intelligent Radio Networks
Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks
Selected Topics in Sensors & IoT I 1-0-0 1
Selected  Topics  in  Sensors  &  IoT
Selected  Topics  in  Sensors  &  IoT
Industry 4.0 Applications in
UAV Assisted Wireless Networks  3-0-0 3
Resource Constrained AI
Statistical Methods for Data Analysis 3-0-0 3
Structural Health Monitoring*
Point of care devices/diagnostics*
MEMS for Medical Devices*
Digital Signal Processing and
*New elective courses to be designed
5G Technologies for IoT*
IoT in Industry 4.0*
Detailed Course Contents
Sensors and Measurements
M. Tech. 1st year
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the students to sensors, as transducers from physical parameters to signals
2.  Explain the sensing principles for displacement, force, pressure, acceleration, temperature,
optical radiation, nuclear radiation
3.  Explain the sensor range, sensitivity, accuracy, repeatability, noise
Students are expected to have the ability to
1.  Understand fundamental principles of sensing technology,
2.  Design various sensors and their applications
3.  Comprehend Non-destructive characterization methods
EEL7XX1: Sensor characteristics [1-0-0]
Definitions,  terminology,  classification,  Static  vs  dynamic  properties  of  transducers,  Transfer
functions, Ideal and realistic transducer models (4 lectures)
linearization,  dynamic  range,  detection  threshold,  Selectivity  &  sensitivity,
Calibration, Errors of the experimental measurements (4 lectures)
Physical  Principle  of  Sensing:  Resistance,  Capacitance,  Piezoelectric  effect,  Pyroelectric  effect,
Hall effect, Thermal and Optical phenomenon (6 lectures)
EEL7XX2: Sensor Interface and Applications [1-0-0]
Input characteristics of interface circuits, Amplifiers, Light to voltage converters,
Capacitance to voltage converters, Bridge Circuits, Excitation circuits (4 lectures)
Inertial Sensors (Accelerometer & gyroscope) (3 lectures)
Smart building Sensors (Smoke & occupancy sensors) (3 lectures)
Healthcare Sensors (Glucometer, Oximeter, ECG & MRI) (4 lectures)
Read-out interface circuit design for various sensors like Accelerometers, Gyroscope, Gas, Smoke,
Occupancy sensors, etc. keeping various applications in view.
1.  Jacob Fraden, (2010), Handbook of Modern Sensors, 5th Edition, Springer.
2.  J. W. Gardner, (1996), Microsensors, Principles and Applications, 1st Edition, Wiley.
S. M. Sze, (1994), Semiconductor Sensors, 1st Edition, Wiley.
Introduction to Internet of Things Systems
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech. 1st year
L-T-P [C]  2–0–2 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide overview of applications of IoT and relevant technologies
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Identify and integrate different components required for IoT applications
EEL7XX1: IoT Systems Architecture
Sensing, Actuation, Basics of IoT Networking (4 Lectures)
IoT Architecture, Communication Protocols for IoT (4 Lectures)
Sensor Networks: Wireless Sensor Network, Sensor nodes (2 Lectures)
Machine to machine Communication: Introduction, Node types and M2M Applications, Integration of
Sensors and Actuators for Implementation of IoT (4 Lectures)
EEL7XX2: Embedded Computing and IoT Applications
Introduction to Raspberry Pi and other MCUs used in IoT (4 Lectures)
Software defined IoT Networking (2 Lectures)
Introduction to Cloud, Fog, and Edge Computing (4 Lectures)
IoT  Use  Cases  -  Smart  cities  and  Smart  homes,  Industrial  IoT,  Healthcare  IoT,  Smart  Grid  (4
The lab course will be dependent on the various core and elective components of the program. There
will  be  a  scope  for  modifying  the  contents  depending  on  the  recent  developments  in  technology.
Experiments from some of the following topics will be part of this lab.
Implementation of Signal Conditioning Circuits
Implementation of IoT components using Hardware/Software
•  Sensor interfacing using off-the-shelf components
•  Programming of MCUs used in IoT like Raspberry Pi
Implementation of real time examples of IoT using Embedded Systems
Introduction to EDA tools, hardware-software co-design, computational models in Embedded
The  assignments  will  involve  programming  of  MCUs  using  C  and  Python.  These  programming
assignments will complement the lab sessions.
1.  Kamal,  R.,  (2017),  Internet  of  Things  -  Architecture  and  Design  Principles,  1st  Edition,  Mcgraw
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Misra,  S.,  Introduction  to  Internet  of  Things,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Computer
Course Title  Microsystems Fabrication Technology  Course No.
Pre-requisite  Semiconductor Devices
M. Tech. (Sensors and IoT)
To take effect from
1. To introduce the  essentials of micro-electronics fabrication technology required for the realization
of MEMS and integrated circuits
2.  To  introduce  the  basic  concepts  of  MEMS  based  sensors  and  actuator  design,  process  integration
and advanced micro-machining technologies for high aspect ratio MEMS structures.
3. To expose the students with semiconductor/ MEMS unit processes and their integration.
Students will have the capability to:
1.  Comprehend the unit fabrication processes for MEMS and ICs
2.  Design and fabricate MEMS based sensors and actuators
Unit processes common to IC and MEMS fabrication:
(i)  Clean room practices, substrate pre-processing, thermal oxidation, diffusion. (3 lectures)
(ii) Photolithography, Thin Film deposition (CVD, PVD) and Etching (dry and wet). (5 lectures)
Unit processes specific to MEMS:
Surface and bulk micro-machining, DRIE (4 lectures)
Thick film deposition, wafer bonding, and MEMS packaging. (4 lectures)
Case studies of MEMS:
sensor, Biochemical sensors. (6 lectures)
Basic concepts of MEMS sensing and actuation. Process design/ integration (6 lectures)
Aspects  for  selected  MEMS  based  sensors  and  actuators  including  Comb  drives,  pressure
Lab Component (14 Sessions):
(i)  Introduction to layout design tools for various device layers generation, Materials selection aspects
and Process integration considerations for selected MEMS based transducers.
(ii)Experiments related various unit processes (like Metal deposition, Photolithography and etching),
their integration, related measurements and their optimization aspects.
Indicative  Assignments:  Process  flow  design  and  layout  designing  of  various  layers  for  the
fabrication of micro-heaters, beams, cantilever, diaphragms, comb-drives, etc. for micro sensors.
1.  Tai-Ran  Hsu,  (2017),  MEMS  &  Microsystems  Design  and  Manufacture,  Indian  Edition,  Tata
2.  J.  D.  Plummer,  M.  D.  Deal,  and  P.  B.  Griffin  (2009),  Silicon  VLSI  technology:  Fundamentals,
practice, and modelling, 1st Edition, Prentice Hall
Self study and Reference material
1.  M. Bao, (2005), Analysis and Design Principles of MEMS Devices, 1st Edition, Elsevier
2.  Marc J. Madou, (2011), Fundamentals of Microfabrication and Nanotechnology: The Science of
Miniaturization, 3rd Edition, CRC Press.
3.  M. Sze, (2003), VLSI Technology, 2nd edition McGraw Hill Education.
4.  S. D. Senturia, Microsystem Design (2013), 1st Edition, Springer
Analog and Interfacing Circuits
M. Tech. 1st year
Digital and Analog Electronics
The Instructor will:
1.  Familiarize students with the concepts of Analog IC Design and give them a comprehensive overview
of various amplifiers.
2.  Familiarize  the  students  with  different  building  blocks  of  a  mixed  signal  interface  circuit  design
essential for sensors and IoT.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand fundamental principles of CMOS Analog IC Design and interfacing of analog signals with
the digital signal processing circuits.
2.  Apply the circuit design fundamentals for IoT applications.
3.  Work on design tools like Cadence/Mentor Graphics
Introduction to Analog VLSI and design issues in CMOS technologies, MOS models and SPICE Models [3
Single  stage  amplifiers,  Biasing  circuits,  Voltage  and  Current  reference  circuits,  Feedback  analysis,
Multistage amplifiers [6 lectures]
Differential amplifiers, Mismatch and noise analysis, (6 Lectures)
Switch capacitor circuits: Principles and applications in filter design; switches and related design issues
Variable  gain  amplifier,  Instrumentation  amplifier,  low  noise  and  high  speed  amplifier  topologies  [3
Analog to digital converters: Types, static and dynamic characteristics; track and hold, and sample and
hold circuits; comparators; [6 lectures]
Detail design analysis for successive approximation register (SAR) ADCs, [3 lectures]
Digital  to  Analog  Converters:  Voltage-based  DACs;  charge-based  DACs;  current-  based  DACs  –  binary
and thermometer currents (3 Lectures)
Phase-locked loop: Basics; PLL dynamics; voltage controlled oscillator, frequency synthesis [5 lectures]
Communication ports and devices [3 lectures]
Applications: Wearable Biomedical IoT nodes [1 Lecture]
Lab  Experiments:  It  will  include  design  and  analysis  of  various  analog  and  interfacing  circuits  like
single stage and instrumentational amplifiers, signal conditioning circuits like preamplifier, variable gain
amplifiers, followed by comparators and data converters.
Indicative  Assignments:  Analysis  of  cascaded  and  cascoded  amplifier  topologies  in  terms  of  gain,
input  and  output  impedance  with  and  without  feedback,  switch  capacitor  circuit  design  and  issues,
comparators  and  voltage  controlled  oscillators.  The  theoretical  calculations  will  be  verified  through
different simulations performed using Cadence design tool.
1.  Razavi, B., (2016), Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits, 2nd Edition, McGraw-Hill Education.
2.  R. Jacob Baker, H.W.Li, and D.E. Boyce, (2009), – CMOS Circuit Design ,Layout and Simulation, 2nd
Edition, Prentice-Hall of India
3.  David A. Johns, Ken Martin, (2013), “Analog Integrated Circuit Design”, 2nd Edition, John Wiley and
Self Learning material
1.  Shanthi  Pavan,  VLSI  Data  Conversion  Circuits,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Electrical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117106034/
2.  Nagendra  Krishnapura,  Analog  Integrated  Circuit  Design,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117106030/
Preparatory Course Material
1.  P. E. Allen, D. R. Holberg (2013), CMOS Analog Circuit Design, 3rd Edition, Oxford University Press.
2.  R.  Gregorian,  G.  C.  Temes,  (2008),  “Analog  MOS  Integrated  Circuits  for  Signal  Processing”,  John
Wiley and Sons.
Data Communication and Networking
M. Tech. 1st Year
Fundamentals of Wireless Communications,
Probability Theory and Random Process
L-T-P [C]  2–0–2 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose the students to distinguished features of Wireless Networks.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design and optimize wireless network architectures
2.  Develop  end-to-end  IoT  applications  utilizing  suitable  data  communication  and  networking
Fundamentals (4 Lectures):
  Overview of the communication layers’ architecture (1 Lecture)
  QoS parameters, Data communication technologies: QoS perspective and layer-wise technologies
used (3 Lectures)
Network Deployment and Management (3 Lectures):
  Network Topologies (1 Lecture)
  Node/network localization and deployment map generations (2 Lectures)
MAC Layer Analysis (7 Lectures):
  Markov process, Single and Multi-Server Queues (M/M/1, M/M/c) with finite and infinite queue
sizes (3 Lectures)
  Contention and contention-free channel access mechanisms (2 Lectures)
  Performance modeling and analysis of CSMA/CA with finite packet queues (2 Lectures)
Network Layer Analysis (8 Lectures):
  Design constraints, Bounded latency networks (2 Lectures)
  Routing algorithms - Analysis and optimization (3 Lectures)
  Self-organizing Networks (1 Lecture)
  Motivation for cross-layer protocol design (2 Lectures)
Transport Layer (2 Lectures):
  TCP, UDP, Congestion Control
Discussion on Recent Advancements (4 Lectures)
  Energy efficient protocols and energy harvesting techniques (2 Lectures)
Introduction to NFV, Network slicing (2 Lectures)
Lab Component (14 sessions):
Introduction to existing simulation tools, and hands on-session for Simulation Tool
  NS3 simulations for MAC layer and Network layer performance analysis for WPANs
  Analytical and Simulation co-validation for MAC and Network protocols
  End-to-End IoT Application Development (Multi-node multi-parameter sensing system
development, Edge processing, RF communication, Cloud integration, Data analytics and alerts)
Indicative Assignments and Self-Study Components:
  Assignments on MAC layer analysis, network layer analysis, and transport layer using tools such
as Wireshark, NS3 will be provided
  Self-study topics include deeper analytical analysis of MAC layer, network layer, and transport
layer protocols will be suggested.
1.  Dargie, W., and Poellabauer, C., (2010), Fundamentals of Wireless Sensor Networks: Theory and
2.  Stallings, W., (2007), Data and Computer Communications, 8th Edition, Pearson
3.  Bertsekas, D. P. and Gallager, R. G., (1992), Data Networks, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall
4.  Stallings,  W.,  High-speed  Networks  and  Internets:  Performance  and  Quality  of  Service,  2nd
Edition, Prentice Hall
1.  Ian F. Akyildiz and Mehmet Can Vuran, (2010), Wireless Sensor Networks, A John Wiley and Sons
Course Title   Hardware Software Co-Design
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech. 1st year
Pre-requisite  Digital Logic and Design
The Instructor will:
1.  Make the students analyze the functional and nonfunctional performance of  system early
in the design process to support design decisions.
2.  Make  the  students  appreciate  issues  in  system-on-chip (SoC)  design  associated  with  co-
design, such as intellectual property, reuse, and verification.
3.  Explain the hardware, software, and interface synthesis
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Analyze  hardware/software  trade-offs,  algorithms,  and  architectures  to  optimize  the
system based on requirements and implementation constraints.
2.  Understand issues in interface design.
3.  Use co-simulation to validate system functionality.
Introduction to ASIC design, combinational and sequential circuit design process (design using
Verilog and VHDL), Finite state machines, Modelling styles and their applications (Concurrency,
Communication and Computation models), RTL and memory models, Brief introduction to interfacing
circuits/systems connecting analog & digital world, Motivation for HW/SW co-design (Embedded
controller application etc.) (7 lectures)
Programmable logic devices and FPGAs: PALs, PLDs, FPGA programming concepts and techniques,
design synthesis using FPGA kits, Design optimization techniques (5 lectures)
System-level and SoC design methodologies and tools; HW/SW co-specification and co-design (co-
design Finite state machines, CFSM)  principles: analysis, partitioning, real-time scheduling (7
Hardware acceleration; Virtual platform models, co-simulation methodologies and FPGAs for
prototyping of HW/SW systems (5 lectures);
Transaction-Level Modeling (TLM), Electronic System-Level (ESL) languages, UML:SystemC, Design
development with SystemC; (5 lectures)
High-Level Synthesis(HLS) and associated optimization techniques at each stage: allocation,
scheduling, binding, resource sharing, pipelining, co-synthesis methods (6 lectures);
SoC and IP integration issues (on-chip bus, network-on-chip) and optimization for resource-
constrained operation in different usage environments, Introduction to SoC verification, test & pre-
/post-silicon debug methodologies, ARM-based System-on-Chip Design Techniques with HW/SW
approach, One practical SoC design case  study in complete detail (7  lectures)
Lab Component:  Interfacing, data analytics and data processing of different types of sensors at
the system level using FPGA, system level implementation of various digital correction and
calibration techniques. This will internally include combinational circuit and sequential logic design,
clock issues and timing constraints. Application-specific System/Processor Design and Simulation,
SystemC -based Microprocessor & Accelerator design implementation, performance evaluation and
optimization, On-chip interconnect network analysis (e.g.- Network-on-chip simulation), Realization
of co-designed HW system on FPGA board(s) and analysis of observed results (complete project
beginning from co-specification to co-design, co-synthesis and verification)
Indicative Assignments: (a) Design of moderately complex system (e.g.- sequence detector/
router/ multi-level elevator controller) in any HDL and its simulation using Modelsim (Mentor)/
GHDL(open source)/ Icarus(open source)/ VCS (Synopsys) tools
(b) Implementation of designed system on FPGAs using Quartus/ Xilinx Vivado tools
(c) Implementation of partitioning/scheduling algorithm in Python/C
(d)  Realization of RTL synthesis with Yosys(open source)/ RTL Compiler(Cadence)/ Design
(e) Implementing standalone designs in SystemC, its compilation, simulation and debug.
1.  Jørgen Staunstrup, Wayne Wolf (1997), Hardware/Software Co-design: Principles and Practice,
2.  Unsalan,  C.,  Tar,  B.,  (2017), Digital  System  Design  with  FPGA  Implementation  Using Verilog
and VHDL, McGraw-Hill
3.  D. Black, J. Donovan, (2010), SystemC: From the Ground Up, 2  nd Edition, Springer
4.  D.  Gajski,  S.  Abdi,  A.  Gerstlauer,  G.  Schirner,  (2009), Embedded  System  Design:
Modeling, Synthesis, Verification, Springer
Preparatory Course material
1.  Nelson, V.P., Carroll, B.D., Nagle, H.T., Irwin, J.D., (2020), Digital Logic Circuit analysis and
Design, 2nd Edition, Pearson
2.  G. De Micheli, (2017), Synthesis and Optimization of Digital Circuits, McGraw-Hill.
Introduction to Programming
MTech (CPS and SIoT)
To familiarize students with the basics and applications of programming using C and Python
On completion, the student should be able to
implement mathematical and algorithmic concepts using C/Python
  apply programming concepts to various applications, such as numerical analysis, dynamical
system analysis, etc.
Programming in C [11 Lectures]
C Compiler setup and Execution in Windows and Linux, Data Types, Operators and Expressions,
Decision and Control Statements [3 lectures]
Arrays – Single and Multi-Dimensional, Pointers, Functions, Data Structures [5 lectures]
Dynamic Memory Allocation, Working with files, Using gcc and gdb + Introduction to Eclipse IDE and
debugging [3 lectures]
Python [3 Lectures]
Fundamentals of Python, File Handling, String processing, Function definition, Dictionaries & Tuples,
Implementation of basic concepts
  Applications, such as solving dynamical systems using differential equations
  Numerical applications in C/Python
1.  Kanetkar, Y. (2016), Let us C, 17th edition, BPB Publications
2.  Balagurusamy (2013), Data Structures Using C, Tata McGraw-Hill Education
3.  Brown, M.C. (2018), Python: The Complete Reference, 4th Edition, McGraw Hill Education
4.  Press, W. H., Teukolsky, S. A., Vetterling, W. T., & Flannery, B. P. (1988), Numerical recipes in
C, Cambridge University Press
1.  Weller, D., and Chikkerur, S. (2010), 6.087 Practical Programming in C. January IAP 2010,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare,
2.  Iyengar, S (2018) The Joy of Computing using Python,
*Students who successfully demonstrate the ability to implement concepts and numerical algorithms
would be awarded the Satisfactory grade. Students should be able to complete all programming