High Energy Physics and Astrophysics | Physics | IIT Jodhpur
High Energy Physics and Astrophysics
The group is involved in the research works comprising of astrophysics and particle physics as a part of understanding the origin and evolution of Universe. It aims at the participation in the exciting theoretical and phenomenological developments in the field of fundamental interactions of nature in cohesion with the rapid growth of new observational and experimental data in the field. The group addresses the forefront problems on both scales: using the universe and astrophysical objects to learn fundamental underlying features of particle physics and employing what is learned from particle physics to provide a better understanding of the universe at large scale by exploring nature and properties of the objects in it. The group is robustly active in several sub-domains of High Energy Physics.
Collaborations Researchers, postdocs and students working in this group can also take advantage of the rich environment of scientific institutions closely related to the areas of current research focus with whom we have active collaborations:  Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies, Germany University of Montreal, Canada University of Warsaw, Poland Mississippi University, USA Autonoma University, Spain Lawrence Technol. University, USA New York University, CCA, Flatiron Institute, USA University of Johannesburg, South Africa Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, Kolkata Raman Research Institute, Bangalore TIFR Mumbai IIT Bombay IIT BHU IMSc Chennai Major Atmospheric Gamma Imaging Cherenkov Telescopes (MAGIC) detector, La Palma, Province of Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Canary Islands, Spain GRAPES-3, Ooty, India
Jitendra Kumar Lata Panwar Monika Sinha Reetanjali Moharana
Projects Research Highlights On going DST-SERB funded “Magnetars with superfluid core” Completed CSIR funded “Hunting new physics through b -> s transitions” Identifying the origin of lepton-universality violation at collider experiments Belle Collaboration confirmed our results (Fig. 2) Figure from our paper " High-energy neutrinos from the gravitational wave event GW150914 possibly associated with a short gamma-ray burst" displayed as ’Kaleidoscope’ on the journal website of Physical Review D. (Fig. 1)
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 02:26 PM