Quantum Physics | Physics | IIT Jodhpur
Research Themes Open Quantum Systems: Open Quantum Systems: Dynamics of Nonclassical Evolution, Subhashish Banerjee (Springer, 2018 ). This is the overall umbrella which allows a global as well as a local viewpoint to be developed into various branches of quantum physics. Non-Markovian Quantum Physics: fundamental role played by memory in various evolutions. Quantum Thermodynamics: The major aim of these endeavours is to emalgamate quantum physics with thermodynamics. On the practical side, this is aimed at strengthening our present understanding of working efficiencies of quantum information processing devices (and, in particular, quantum computers) from the perspective of laws of Quantum Thermodynamics. Quantum Optics & Quantum State Engineering: With the advent of quantum state engineering and quantum information processing, the study of nonclassical properties of engineered quantum states has become important. This is so because the presence of nonclassical features in a quantum state can only provide quantum supremacy. This would be directly related to technology development. Parity-Time (PT) Symmetric Quantum Physics: A non-Hermitian Hamiltonian with the parity (P) - time (T ) symmetry, often referred to as a PT symmetric (PTS) Hamiltonian, can also possess real eigenvalue spectrum. Such non-Hermitian Hamiltonians may undergo a spontaneous transition to PT symmetry broken (PTSB) phase. Quantum Field Theory in Curved Space-Time: A local construction of S-matrix in quantum field theory in curved spacetime is provided using Riemann-normal coordinate which mimics the methods, generally used in Minkowski (flat) spacetime. Quantum Cosmology and Open Quantum Systems: Our aim is to understand various facets of cosmology and black holes from the overall viewpoint of open quantum systems and quantum information.
Towards National Mission Statement: Towards quantum computing, quantum information and related technology development   Generation of entangled photons and its applications to Quantum Computation and Information Processing: This will involve experimental generation, characterization and desired manipulation of nonclassical states which are challenging tasks. The proposed investigation would be a mixture of study of theoretical and experimental facets of laser matter interactions that has applications towards quantum computation. Global-scale free space quantum communication using satellites: Here, investigation of quantum communication and the corresponding protocols for space-based applications would be studied. This is expected to have a direct impact on the defense as well as commercial endeavors, for example, banking. Courses, pertaining to Quantum Mechanics, Quantum Computation and related domains will be developed and taught at IIT Jodhpur in order to generate trained manpower in the domain of Quantum Technologies.
Faculty PhD Student Project Staff Subhashish Banerjee V. Narayanan Amit Mukherjee Chandan Datta Tomis Muskan Ramniwas Meena Monika Rani
Project On Going Project Completed "Generation of entangled photons and its applications to Quantum Computation and Information Processing” funded by Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (ICPS) of DST “Quantum Heat Engines” funded by “Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (ICPS) of DST” “A study of quantum correlations : Squeezing and its various facets” funded by CSIR, New Delhi “Probing the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in Neutrino Oscillations” funded by DST, New Delhi “Graph Theoretical aspects in Quantum Information Processing ” funded by CSIR, New Delhi
Research Collaborations University of Turku, Finland University of Technology of Troyes (UTT) France Université de Bordeaux , France Univ. of Milano-bicocca, italy Poornaprajna Institute of Scientific Research, Bangalore Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Hyderabad IIT Bombay IITKanpur IIT Madras IISc. Bangalore IMSc Chennai iiser Kolkata Cochin univ. of science and Technology, Kochi
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 02:26 PM