Optics and Photonics | Physics | IIT Jodhpur
Optics and Photonics
The group has been exploring fundamental as well as application specific research activities in optics and photonics. The present investigations include development of emerging technologies like Terahertz technology, Ultrafast Optical techniques, Time-resolved and Steady state spectroscopy, Fluorescence quantum efficiency, Optical Imaging and Mapping, Specialty Optical Fibers, Sensing and Quantum Confinement inspired optical phenomena. The research activities and opportunities equally involve experimental as well as theoretical aspects. The group has globally competitive skill sets in the domains of optics and photonics and progressively contributing towards fundamental explorations as well as making a paradigm shift in technology development and proof-of-concept devices.
Collaborations Researchers, postdocs and students working in this group can also take advantage of the rich environment of scientific institutions closely related to the areas of current research focus  with whom we have active collaborations: Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (Prof. Yidong Chong) Università degli Studi di Brescia, Italy (Prof. Costantino De Angelis) Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai (Prof. Sushil Mujumdar) Mahindra École Centrale, Hyderabad (Prof. Bishnu P. Pal) Institute of Radio Physics & Electronics, University of Calcutta, Kolkata (Prof. Abhijit Biswas) Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi (Prof. Ravi K. Varshney) Okinawa Institute of Science & Technology Graduate University, Japan (Prof. Keshav M. Dani) University of Hyderabad, Hyderabad (Prof. D. Narayana Rao) Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Thiruvananthapuram (Prof. K. Shadak Alee ) SRM University, Chennai (Prof. Venkatramaiah Nutalapati) University of Cambridge, UK (Prof. Jeremy J Baumberg, FRS) Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi (Prof. G. Vijaya Prakash) Indian Institute of Science Bangalore (Dr. Aditya Sadhanala)
Faculty PhD Students Project Fellow B. M. Krishna Mariserla Shahab Ahmad Sunil Kumar Khijwania Yogeshwar Nath Mishra
Research Highlights Projects Volumetric Iimaging with Wide-field temporal focused (WF-TeFo) two-photon microscopy, Methods and Protocols, 2, 65, 2019. Exceptional point and optical isolation, ACS Photonics 2020, 7, 4, 967-974 Triple-Cation-Based Perovskite Photocathodes with AZO Protective Layer for Hydrogen Production Applications, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2019, 11, 26, 23198-23206 On going Possibilities and device applications of degenerate optical microcavities. Delivery of high power ultra-short optical pulses in mid-infrared wavelength range. Photo-Rechargeable Organo halide Perovskite-Transition Metal Dichalcogenide Batteries. Completed Application specific specialty optical fibers and towards 1D random lasers in disordered optical lattices.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 02:26 PM