Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Centre for Continuing Education (CCE)
Policy Document for the Issuance of Standees
The purpose of this document is to establish a standardized procedure for the request, approval,
Issuance, and deployment of Standees from Centre of Continuing Education (CCE), IIT
Jodhpur. This policy ensures that standees align with institutional branding, convey accurate
information, and are deployed in an organized and effective manner.
This policy applies to all faculty members, staff, coordinators, and collaborators who wish to request
standees for promoting academic programs, training, events, or public engagement initiatives.
●  Digital Standee: A vertical-format digital display (image or video) used to promote
programs, events, or important announcements on digital screens within the campus.
●  Notice Board Standee: A pin-up display board used to promote programs, events, or
important announcements through various banners, posters etc. within the campus.
●  Requester: An individual or department affiliated with the Institute submitting a request for a
●  Approving Authority: The PIC, CCE or an authorized delegate responsible for reviewing
and approving standee requests.
●  Institutional Events: The events which are fully financed by the IIT Jodhpur only.
www.iitj.ac.in | www.iitj.ac.in/centre-for-continuing-education/en/centre-for-continuing-education | Page | 1
Requests for standees may be made for the following:
●  Workshops, seminars, lectures and training sessions
●  Guest talks and industry/institutional collaborations.
●  Internal or external outreach initiatives.
●  Any other events with prior approval form Competent Authority
5. Request Procedure
●  Requesters must fill out the Standee Request Form, available on the CCE Webpage on
website of IIT Jodhpur.
●  The form should be submitted at least 7 working days prior to the proposed date of display.
5.2 Approval Process
●  The Approving Authority will review the request within 3 working days.
●  Feedback or modifications, if any, will be communicated to the requester.
⮚  Institutional Events:
There will be no charge for the Institutional Events subject to prior approval from the
⮚  For all events other than Institutional Events:
●  For Digital Standee: Rs. 3,000 per day per standee
●  For Notice Board Standee: Rs. 100 per day per standee
  Charges Applicable for Delayed Return (After prescheduled date of return):
  For Digital Standee: Rs. 1,500 per day per standee
  For Notice Board Standee: Rs. 50 per day per standee
www.iitj.ac.in | www.iitj.ac.in/centre-for-continuing-education/en/centre-for-continuing-education | Page | 2
●  Submits a request form with complete information.
●  Movement of Standees from designated CCE location to Desired
location and return it back on approved date.
●  Reviews requests and routes for approval
●  Issues the standees
●  Generates invoices for payment
●  Grants final approval and prioritizes requests
●  It is the responsibility of the Requester to return the standees on the pre-scheduled return
date. Any delay will attract charges as mentioned in Section 5.3.
●  The Requester must ensure fair and careful use of the standees. In case of any damage or tear,
the Requester shall be responsible for repairing and returning the standees in the same
condition as they were issued.
●  Although no charges are applicable for Institutional Events, the Requester remains
responsible for returning the standees in proper condition. Any delay in return will incur the
applicable charges as per Section 5.3. In case of any damage, the standees must be repaired
and returned in the same condition as issued.
8. Policy Review and Updates
This policy will be reviewed and updated as and when required by the Competent Authority.
www.iitj.ac.in | www.iitj.ac.in/centre-for-continuing-education/en/centre-for-continuing-education | Page | 3