About | Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy (RCRICE) | IIT Jodhpur
The Centre will strive to become the global destination for research and product/process development in the different areas of Green and Clean Energy, in close collaboration with industries, startups, and other stakeholders.
Interdisciplinary Excellence: Integrating diverse expertise and resources, our mission is to advance interdisciplinary research in clean energy, fostering innovation and producing impactful solutions to present and future energy challenges.
Industry Integration and Technology Transfer: Engaging with academia, startups, and industries, we strive to bridge the gap between research and application, facilitating technology transfer and innovation-driven initiatives to address real-world energy challenges.
Educational Empowerment: Empowering the next generation of Energy Technologists, our mission is to offer academic programs in Energy Technology, emphasizing innovation, technology management, and entrepreneurship, to equip students with the skills and mindset to drive innovation and address energy-related challenges.
Global Leadership in Clean Energy: Aspiring to be a global leader in clean energy innovation, our mission is to establish the RCRIC as a premier hub for collaborative research, academic engagement, and technology development, driving the adoption of sustainable energy solutions worldwide.
The Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy focuses on key verticals that encompass the entire clean energy value chain — from generation and storage to efficient utilization and intelligent management.
Energy Storage Materials
To conduct and promote basic and/or applied research and innovation, nurture entrepreneurship, and support startups and MSMEs in identified areas of Clean / Green Energy Technologies.
To design and develop technologies for future smart grids, including AC/DC hybrid grids, fully renewable grids, offshore microgrids, and smart electric vehicle infrastructure with quality power-supplying features.
To design and develop low-cost and high-efficiency thermal/electrical energy storage (TES) technologies.
To design and develop integrated adsorption/conventional cooling and heating systems operated by solar thermal and solar PV.
To design and develop a combined refrigeration and desalination system based on a novel solar ejector system and a working Multi-Effect Desalination (MED) system.
To set up a State-of-the-Art Research Centre to study the combustion of green hydrogen and green ammonia for their practical applications.
To set up a State-of-the-Art Research Centre to study the feasibility of carbon geo-sequestration and subsurface porous media storage of hydrogen gas in rocks.
To engage in research and technology delivery in any other emerging technologies for Clean Energy.
Professor Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Mr. Narendra Goliya
Chairman, Rishabh Group of Companies
Get In Touch
Unlock the future with IIT Jodhpur's Rishabh Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy. For inquiries and collaboration, connect with us at our website. Your journey into cutting-edge innovation starts here!
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:23 PM