Mission & Vision | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
Mission & Vision
Become India’s top thought leader in technology-focused management education, research, and entrepreneurship in decades by spawning a new generation of managers, entrepreneurs, and leaders equipped with foresight based on a blend of technology and humanity.
To be a management school of choice for graduates, researchers, and employers, looking for techno-managerial expertise.
To be amongst the top 20 institutions in the NIRF rankings for Management Schools in India by 2030.
To create a vibrant management school based on the three pillars of teaching, research, and industry collaboration.
To be a leader in the world for studies on the futuristic coalition of technology and management.
To promote and support entrepreneurship as a practical vocation and conduct research to enhance entrepreneurial capability in the nation and beyond.
To prepare socially responsible future leaders working with high values of ethics, inclusivity, and foresight for the development of the nation and humanity as a whole.
The Institute stands for a set of core values, wherein each member of the IIT Jodhpur community shall:
Uphold the highest levels of human integrity and dignity;
Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute;
Work towards building the most admired technology institute, furthering the interests of students, industries, and Society.
Commit to the economic development of India through technological thought and action;
Be ethical, sincere, and open in all transactions; and
Be continually responsible for upholding the utmost confidentiality of all information and circumstances arising out of any interaction.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM