Industry Interaction | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
At SME | IIT Jodhpur we ensure that practice meets theory across all disciplines. Through the Leadership Talk Series at SME | IIT Jodhpur, we aim to bridge the gap between classroom learning and the ground realities of the business world by inviting industry experts, academic luminaries and entrepreneurs to share their vast array of hard-earned experiences. Students have many opportunities for engagement with industry leaders throughout the year. The initiative aims to have eminent personalities from the business world, share their experience and guide students who aspire to become leaders in the future. These interactions are spread over the course of the entire year and the guest speakers cover both technical and soft-skills during their sessions.
The Corporate Relations Team conducts a series of value-driven sessions to prepare MBA students of SME IIT Jodhpur for a successful corporate journey ahead, making them ready for summer internship, final placement, and live project opportunity. These sessions are designed to provide clarity, capability, and industry exposure, ensuring students are well-informed and industry-ready as per Industry 4.0.
Leadership Talk: Enables students to learn from experienced industry leaders as they share insights from their professional journeys across multiple roles, domains, and industries, offering practical perspectives on leadership, decision-making, and career growth.
Capability Session: Focuses on personal and professional development by helping students enhance communication skills, build strong resumes, understand corporate expectations, and prepare themselves to be industry-ready.
Pre-Placement Talk (PPT): Helps students gain a clear understanding of the company, including role expectations, career trajectory, growth opportunities, compensation structure, work culture, and what professional life at the organization will look like in the long run.
Industry Talk: Provides students with in-depth knowledge of specific industries, covering current trends, growth prospects, challenges, and emerging opportunities, thereby bridging the gap between classroom learning and industry realities.
List of Notable Speakers in 2025
1 Abhinav Johri Partner EY Leadership Talk
2 Shashi Bhatia HR Manager Royal Enfield Leadership Talk
3 Mayank Mohan VP Genpact Industry Talk
4 Roma Abhichandani Site HR Genpact Industry Talk
5 Sachin Gulati Director HR American Express Preplacement Talk
6 Anshika Juneja Sr Manager American Express Preplacement Talk
7 Nitya Shaktawat HR Manager Genpact Capability Session
8 Rohit Khanna Sr VP Genpact Industry Talk
9 Santoshi BvB Partner EY Preplacement Talk
10 Anil Joseph Sr. VP Sutherland Preplacement Talk
11 Sarfraz Amin AVP Sutherland Preplacement Talk
12 Nitin Agrawal Co Founder Navadhan Leadership Talk
13 Anshula Verma Director HR EY Leadership Talk
14 Varun Bisaria Director Grant Thornton Industry Talk
15 Yatharth Jhawar Executive HR Grant Thornton Industry Talk
16 Sanjay Kukreja Global Head Eclex Preplacement Talk
17 Amit Bhadgaonkar Head of Planning Audi India Industry Talk
18 Prithika Priyanshi MD Accenture Industry Talk
19 Dipen Chotalia Cluster Lead Bosch Rexroth Industry Talk
20 Ridhi Nahata Manager Risk Kaufman Rossin Capability Session
21 Kiranveer PN COO Cognizant Preplacement Talk
22 Sumeet Nair Head Campus Cognizant Preplacement Talk
23 Archana CR Engagement Lead Accenture Preplacement Talk
24 Saipriya Mangalore Asso Director Accenture Preplacement Talk
25 Vinit Partner EY Preplacement Talk
26 Saumya Kamade Manager Risk EY Preplacement Talk
27 Anushka HR Manager EY Preplacement Talk
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM