FAQ | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
Frequently Asked Questions for MBA Technology for Executive Mode Ques. I am approached by a company named Futurense for admission into the MBA Technology program from IIT Jodhpur. Is it legitimate? Ans. Yes, it is legitimate. Futurense is the official partner of IIT Jodhpur for the MBA Technology Program. While they conduct the initial process, the offer letter is sent by the Office of Executive Education, IIT Jodhpur. Except for the Application Processing Fee of ₹10,000 to Futurense, the rest of the fee is paid to IIT Jodhpur directly. Ques. Can I approach SME IIT Jodhpur directly for admission into MBA Technology program in the executive mode? Ans. SME handles the admissions process only for its regular program. Admissions to executive program is through Futurense. Ques. How will the classes be conducted? Ans. Classes will be conducted online over the weekends by IIT Jodhpur Faculty. The recording of the classes will also be available on the learning management system. Ques. The program is offered in the online mode. How does it compare to SME’s regular MBA program in terms of duration and credits? Ans. The MBA Technology program for executive students is offered in the Trimester pattern, totaling 6 trimesters over two years. On the other hand, the regular program is offered in the Semester pattern, totaling 4 semesters over two years. In terms of total number of credits, both programs are the same, except for summer and winter internship applicable to regular students only. Ques. Are the specializations offered in the executive program also available in the regular mode? Ans. No. The regular program does not grant specializations. The specializations are offered only to the executive students. Ques. What specializations are offered to the executive students of MBA Technology? Ans. Currently, there are three specializations offered to the executive students of MBA Technology - Managing Digital Enterprises with Analytics & AI, Digital Product Design and Management and FinTech & Cyber Security. A few more specializations may be added later based on industry needs. Ques. SME’s regular MBA program provides an option to go to the partner university abroad in the second year. Does the executive program offer that? Ans. No. there is no international dual degree option for executive students. Ques. I am a qualified/practicing __________________. Does the program offer any exemptions in terms of the number of credits? Ans. While we acknowledge the importance of prior learning, unfortunately we cannot provide individual level exceptions. Ques. Will the degree mention the mode (Executive/Online) etc.? Ans. No. As per current norms, the degree certificate does not mention the mode. Only the name of the degree and award date is mentioned. Ques. Will the student of executive mode receive placement support? Ans. Since such students are already working in industry, such placement support is not provided. Moreover, the aim of the program is not to get the students placed; rather, it is to equip them with the skillset that would help them in finding their niche in the industry. Ques. Will the students of the executive program be counted as IIT Jodhpur alumni? Ans. Yes, the students of the executive program will receive an IIT Jodhpur e-mail and an institute ID card. Upon completion of the program and receiving their degree certificate, they will be counted as IIT Jodhpur alumni. Ques. Is there any conversion between the executive and the regular program? Ans. Currently no such provision exists. Ques. Who should I contact for more information? Ans. Please contact the office of Executive Education at office_cep@iitj.ac.in. Escalate it to cepo@iitj.ac.in if your mail is not replied to in 2 working days.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM