Projects | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
INDHAN-Innovative Digital Twin for Harnessing Reliability Based Nuclear Wind Coolant Power Systems for enhanced seismic resilience in coastal India
Monika Tanwar (Co-PI)
Rs. 56 Lakhs
Harnessing Equality: A Tri-State Study of Solar Energy’s Socio-Economic Influence on the Vulnerable Population
Devi Prasad Dash and Anuj Pal Kapoor
Rs. 12 Lakhs
Transforming Transparency: A Text Analytics Approach in Evaluating the Impact of Live Streamed Judiciary on Public Trust
Devi Prasad Dash
Rs. 5 Lakhs
Upajivanam: Livlihood Business Incubator
Venkateha Murthy (co-PI)
Rs. 1.67 Crore
Study of centuries-old bahi-khata accounting
Jitesh Mohnot (PI)
Ministry of Education (IKS Division)
Offshore wind farm optimization
Research Council of Norway and Norwegian Directorate for Higher Education and Skills
Jodhpur City Knowledge Innovation Foundation
Rs. 1.5 Cr
Office of the PSA
Exploring alternative criteria for stratification used in sampling designs of the surveys of NSSO
Strengthening the Innovation Landscape: Developing New Partnership Models and a Future Roadmap for Climate Tech in India
Magesh Nagarajan (Co-PI)
Digital Twin Technology for offshore wind turbines
Research Council of Norway
Unwrapping labor Adidas
Venkat Ram Reddy
Rs. 8 Lakh
Mercatus Center, USA
Wage discrimination across sectors amidst the COVID-19 pandemic: A gendered perspective from the selected Northern Indian states
Devi Prasad Dash and Anuj Pal Kapoor
Rs. 18.64 Lakhs
Does Location Spur Innovation? Evidence across the Indian Manufacturing Sectors
Devi Prasad Dash (co-PI)
Rs. 9 Lakhs
Understanding Millet Crop Patterns, Productivity, Consumption, and Farmers' Income in Jodhpur and Jhunjhunu Districts of Rajasthan
Rs. 5.5 Lakhs
Ponds in Pali
Venkateha Murthy (co-PI)
Statistical Methods for Gaining Precision in Credibility Estimation
Actuarial Science Foundation
Sequential Estimation of Survey Parameters With Pre-Specified Accuracy
Transforming Defence Logistics
Deepak Saxena, Bhargab Chattopadhyay, Bhushan Praveen Jangam
Indian Army (XII Corps)
Workshop on Technology Needs Assessment for Green Hydrogen and CCUS
Krishna Kumar Balaraman
Visioning for imagining the future of DSM in the post-pandemic world
Park Life Innovations
Developing a Framework for Fintech and Financial Inclusion: A Way towards Viksit Bharat and Women's Inclusivity
Seema Saini (co-PI)
Rs. 20 Lakhs
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM