Message From The Head | School of Liberal Arts | IIT Jodhpur
Message From The Head
Dr Alok Ranjan
The School of Liberal Arts (SoLA) at IIT Jodhpur, established in 2022, evolved from the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS), which had its inception in the year 2015. This is a critical milestone for a young department and represents our consistent improvement in academics and research. In accordance with the future-driven vision of IIT Jodhpur, the change in name signifies a change in orientation. The newly established School promotes the idea of transformation by breaking the traditional silos, and through multidisciplinary, transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary means, making an active intervention that will strengthen the existing research ecosystem of the institute.
Through the courses and programs offered by our School, we encourage students to become professionals whose practice and research bridge the gaps between the humanistic, the social, the environmental, and the technological domains. SoLA’s flagship program is the two-year MSc in Computational Social Sciences (CSS) with a specialization in two tracks – Computational Economics and Computational Sociology. To promote a more nuanced dialogue between STEM and social sciences, the school also offers interdisciplinary cross-institute courses for engineering students at undergraduate, graduate and doctoral levels. The faculty of our school are distinguished academics, with rich intellectual capital who combine academic excellence with pedagogical innovations that represent their dedication and commitment to the vision of the School and IIT Jodhpur.
I invite you to learn more about our School and to be part of our journey as we foster humanitarian values, diversity, inclusiveness, a passion for learning and building a culture of excellence in education and research.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 10:51 PM