Background | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
MBA - Technology Introduction As data and technology drive seismic transformations across industries, every business is rapidly re-inventing or restructuring itself to become a tech-centered organization. These businesses are pushed to explore and exploit the opportunities that can be mined with the dynamic evolution in AI, Generative AI, analytics, cybersecurity and fintech, robotics, automation, blockchain, IoT and intelligent systems and more. Such organizations are looking for very specific competencies that can connect the dots between rapidly evolving technologies and business opportunities that can arise with these. They are looking at managers and leaders with a hybrid skillset - who have a deep understanding of the various emerging technologies, can innovate on ways to create value with data and technology, can leverage these to drive efficiency, make data driven decisions and use deep analytics and other AI and ML tools to build innovative solutions and serve their customers best. In such a scenario, conventional MBA competencies do not fulfill the industry needs. Keeping in mind this fast changing industry context, IIT Jodhpur School of Management and Entrepreneurship has designed the MBA Technology program. Architected with extensive inputs from tech and business leaders across industries, this program will help build techno-managerial competencies for future-ready managers and leaders, who are able to integrate technology, data and business strategies seamlessly to drive revenue, customer value, profitability and business continuity. The 24 month program weaves academic and conceptual learning from top faculty at IIT Jodhpur, augmented by application and use-case driven sessions conducted by key industry experts and leaders from organizations that are driving technology innovations across industries - all in all providing a truly holistic and global perspective of modern day business challenges and opportunities. The program provides a never-before opportunity for candidates to specialize in high demand job segments and high growth domains such as: Managing Digital Enterprises with AI and Analytics Digital Product and Program Management Cybersecurity and Fintech
Objectives The objective of the MBA Technology program at IIT Jodhpur School of Management and Entrepreneurship is to build specialized skills demanded by today's tech-driven business landscape and tech-centered or digital first organizations. It aims to upskill or reskill professionals in digital or tech industries with techno-managerial knowledge of managing technologies which prevail in the business scene today. The program aims to equip students with a comprehensive understanding of technology, data analytics, and emerging trends. By integrating cutting-edge AI, data science, and various emerging technological innovations into the curriculum, the program ensures that graduates are well-prepared to navigate the complexities of modern business environments. Furthermore, the program seeks to provide students with practical, hands-on experiences through industry collaborations and real-world case studies. This experiential learning approach allows students to develop critical problem-solving skills and gain insights into industry best practices.
Program Highlights Last date of application: 22 July 2024 Batch Start Date: 26 July 2024 Duration: 24 Months MBA Technology Degree by IIT Jodhpur 66 academic credits post successful completion of the program IIT Jodhpur Alumni Status post successful completion of the program Visit IIT Jodhpur campus twice each year for approximately 9-10 days. Immersion attendance is mandatory for earning the degree Live online sessions by IIT Jodhpur faculty, and industry experts 600+ Hours of Overall Learning Experience Multiple hours of online lab exercises and project work Masterclasses by Industry Experts and top tech leaders discussing real-world problems and approaches
Learning Outcomes Develop a deep understanding of the integration between data, technology and business, to formulate and implement business strategies that lead to high level of business growth and customer satisfaction Acquire advanced skills in data analytics and AI, empowering graduates to make informed, data driven decisions in complex business scenarios Leverage AI and Generative AI, fintech, cybersecurity, blockchain and other latest technologies in domain-specific areas such as product design, product management, management of digital enterprises, fintech and program management. Stay ahead of global technology trends, and ability to navigate the complexities of international technology ecosystems Apply concepts learned in the classroom to real-world scenarios through hands-on projects, industry use cases, and capstone projects, ensuring a practical and experiential learning approach. Foster an entrepreneurial mindset, building skills to identify opportunities, innovate, and lead in dynamic business environments Graduate with the skills and confidence needed to excel in technology-driven industries or digital first organizations, backed by a robust network of industry connections fostered through collaborations and interactions during the program.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM