PhD in Design | School of Design | IIT Jodhpur
PhD in Design
Design is a dynamic landscape, constantly evolving and reshaping in response to new technologies, materials, cultural and societal trends. Research focused on Design is crucial to grow and remain relevant in such rapidly changing scenarios. Academic research is more critical to practice-oriented disciplines, like Design, especially at this point due to the increasing complexity of the nature of design problems and greater attention to human experience and behaviour. At IITJ, the PhD program in Design is designed to encourage the participation of design practitioners, teachers, and aspiring design researchers in getting involved in design research activities and expanding the existing body of knowledge. The program focuses on conducting design research and projects in the overlapping fields of technology, science, engineering, humanities, education, arts and crafts through an interdisciplinary approach. The broad range of disciplines of design research will include, but are not limited to, XR Design, Interaction Design, Human-Computer Interaction Design, Visual Communication (including art and visual culture), Product Design, Design Management, Usability Engineering, Environment Design, etc. The program offers a robust framework for conducting cutting-edge research, fostering creativity, and exploring new paradigms in design. PhD candidates will engage in rigorous study, contribute to significant projects, and collaborate with leading industry and academic experts to shape the future of design.
PhD Course Structure All PhD students must complete the necessary courses during their first year. PhD students can take courses from other departments/schools after consulting with the supervisor and faculty advisor to complete the necessary credit requirements.
Eligibility To know about the eligibility criteria and the different PhD categories, refer to this page: /School-of-Design/en/Admission-PhD-Program-in-Design
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 06 Mar 2026 - 04:42 PM