Undergraduate Courses | School of Liberal Arts | IIT Jodhpur
The School of Liberal Arts offers a number of courses for undergraduate students.
A. Compulsory Non-Graded Courses for BTech Students
Professional Communication I and II for all first-year B.Tech. programmes
Professional Ethics I and II for all B.Tech. programmes
Social Connect and Responsibility I and II (co-taught by faculty members from SoLA with other Departments)
B. Preparatory Courses
The faculty members of the English group also teach the following:
Preparatory English I
Preparatory English II
C. Streamwise List of Bouquet Courses
The School offers a diversity of courses from various social science and humanities disciplines for BTech students from their IV to VII semesters. The multiplicity and variety of courses offered are evident from the table below.
Bouquet 1: Language, Literary Cultural,Film and Media Studies (Semester IV) Short Stories from around the world Regional Literature in Translation Creative Writing Postcolonial Fiction Short Fiction from India Science Fiction Introduction to Theatre Short Fictions from South Asian Diaspora Classic Detective Fiction Bouquet 2: Sociology, History and Political Science (Semester V) Introduction to Sociology Digital Society Urban Sociology Indian Society: A Sociological Introduction Youth Studies Law and Society Sociology of Work and Industry Development and Environment Social Stratification Bouquet 3: Economics (Semester VI) Microeconomics -1(AIDE-CMCE) Microeconomics -2(AIDE-CMCE) Health Economics Industrial Organization Health and Development Indian Economic Development and Policy Political and Institutional Economics of Development Foundations and Finance Individual and Strategic Decision Making (AIDE-CMCE) Social and Economic Networks (AIDE-CMCE) Behavioral Economics and Decision Theory (AIDE-CMCE) Bouquet 4: Philosophy, Policy and Governance (Semester VII) Introduction to Philosophy Fundamentals of Logic Critical Thinking Cognitive Semantics Philosophical Problems Introduction to Indian Philosophy Theories of Justice Gandhian Thought Role of Technology in Development Disasters, Risk Reduction and Management Political and Cultural Ecology
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 10:51 PM