Selection Process | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
The applicant must qualify for the pre-screen written test and interviews. The program’s selection and nomination will be based on the results of the pre-assessment test, interview and submission of required documents. Upon passing the pre-screen test and interview, the IIT Jodhpur School of Management and Entrepreneurship admission team will review the application, documents, and exam score to ascertain the selection followed by an offer letter. Application Submission: The program advisor evaluates your profile, then lets you know if you are the right candidate to apply for the program. Once the profile matches the eligibility criteria required for the program, the candidate is required to fill the Futurense Application Form (Click Here) Document Verification: Post submission of the form and verification of all required documents, the program counselor schedules your pre-screening assessment. IIT-J Application Form: Once the test is cleared, candidates will be emailed with a provisional offer letter with IIT-J application form and payment link in offer letter. Post IIT-J Application Form, the candidate needs to deposit the fee online on IIT Jodhpur portal to complete the admission process.
List of Documents  Application Form ID proof – Aadhaar Card/ Passport/ PAN Card Class 10th and 12th Marksheet & Certificate Final year mark sheet and degree certificates for graduation and PG Work experience certificates (the documents should clearly indicate the date of joining and years of experience) - Salary Slip / Relieving Letter / Experience Letter Appointment letter for the current organization (optional) Last 3 months salary slips 2 passport size photographs Signed NOC for campus immersions Additional requirements can be specified after document review
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM