M.Des. in Smart Product Design | School of Design | IIT Jodhpur
M.Des. in Smart Product Design
The world around us is undergoing a dramatic transformation. We are increasingly interconnected, with a growing number of everyday products evolving into intelligent companions. The M.Des. in Smart Product Design is crafted to meet the growing demand for professionals who can create innovative, user-centric products that harness the power of smart technology. This program bridges the gap between cutting-edge technologies, user experience (UX) principles, and design methodology. We aim to delve into the world of smart products, from connected devices to AI-powered systems, learning to design seamless interactions that leverage technology’s power and enrich people's lives.
This program is ideal for aspiring designers passionate about innovation and eager to push the boundaries of physical and digital experiences. As the world embraces smart technology, the demand for skilled designers who can create user-centred, intuitive, and intelligent products is skyrocketing. The M.Des. in Smart Product Design will prepare future designers to be leaders in this dynamic field, shaping the future of how we interact with the world around us.
Studies in Form and Aesthetics
Nature of Materials and Processes
Innovation and IP Management (Graded)
Elective - 1
Elective - 2
Elective - 3
Elective - 4
SPD Thesis (Phase I)
(DSN7010) Summer Internship (Graded)
SPD Thesis (Phase II)
Product Visualisation and Ideation
IoT Systems for Smart Product Design
ML and PR for Smart Product Design
Designing Data Visualisations
Advanced CMF Strategies for Smart Product Design
Special Topics in Smart Product Design
Principles of Game Design
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 06 Mar 2026 - 04:42 PM