Management Development Programs | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
Management Development Programs
At SME IIT Jodhpur, we offer Management Development Programmes (MDPs) that go beyond
standard training. Our programs provide participants with both theoretical knowledge and practical experience, enabling them to excel in all areas of management. What distinguishes SME MDPs is that we
offer a unique combination of rigor and immersion with: Customized Learning: We do not believe in a one-size-fits-all approach. Our MDPs and tailored to the needs of the
participants and their organisations. The cases and examples are taken from their everyday
life, not from some distant, unrelated organisations.
Hands-on Activities & Workshops: Our MDPs are not confined to classroom lectures. Learning becomes experiential through
activities, simulations, teamwork, and tools that help to implement knowledge.
Team Projects: Practical projects are undertaken that address organizational issues, facilitating learning and
impact. Rather than imposing a solution, our MDPs help participants design solutions
relevant to their needs.
Reflective & Personalized Feedback: Rather than merely issuing certificates, we emphasize growth-oriented feedback, encouraging
reflection, refinement, and reinvention by the participants themselves.
In the past, our faculty members have conducted customised MDPs for organisations such as the Department of Posts and the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti. The key areas in which MDPs may be co-
developed are (but not limited to):
Achieving Operational Excellence
AI-enabled Digital Transformation
Data Analytics for Business Success
Effective Business Communication
Innovation & Growth Strategy
Leadership and Team-Building
Strategic Human Resource Management
Service Operations Excellence
Strategic Thinking and Planning
Reaching and Retaining Customers
At SME, IIT Jodhpur, we are dedicated to building visionary professionals and leaders who can
proactively steer the future with conviction and competency. All our MDPs transcend training;
instead, they represent a learning experience that can induce growth in individuals by building
improved organizations. Join with us to co-design your next Management Development Programme
and embark upon your first step towards Organizational Transformation.
We’re here to help! Whether you have a question, feedback, or need assistance, please reach out using
any of the methods below: Dr. Priti Hingorani Senior Manager,  School of Management & Entrepreneurship Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Call: 0291 280 1842,    Email: pritihingorani@iitj.ac.in Dr. Deepak Kumar Saxena Head,  School of Management & Entrepreneurship Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Call: 0291 280 1821,    Email: saxenad@iitj.ac.in
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM