Fee Structure & Student Intake | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
Fee Structure & Student Intake
1. For Indian Students
A. Program Fee Structure (2026-2028)
The tuition fee for the program is INR 2,25,000/- per semester. In addition to the tuition
fee, students are required to pay the semester fee, admission fee (one-time), convocation
fee (one-time), refundable deposits (one-time), dining fee, and any other applicable charges.
Students opting for the international dual degree program in their second year are
required to pay the day-scholar fees at IIT Jodhpur, as well as any other applicable fees at
the Partner Institute.
Note: Students from SC, ST, and PwD categories are exempt from paying the tuition fee, as
per government norms, amended from time to time. However, they are still required to pay
all other charges mentioned above. * The components of the semester fee are subject to
change from time to time. B. Student Intake
The intake of the program is 80.
Note:  Norms of the Ministry of Education, Government of India, shall be adhered to for the category-wise breakup.
2. For International Students
A. Program Fee Structure (2026-2028)
The tuition fee for international students from SAARC countries will be 1.5 times the fee
applicable to Indian students.
The tuition fee for international students from non-SAARC countries will be 2 times the
fee applicable to Indian students.
All other components of the fee will remain the same as those applicable to Indian
students for all international students.
The components of the semester fee are subject to change from time to time.
B. Student Intake
The intake of the program is 10.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM