Masters of Design (MDes) 2025 | School of Design | IIT Jodhpur
Masters of Design (MDes) 2025
The MDes programs at the School of Design, IIT Jodhpur combine creativity, technology, and innovation to equip aspiring designers with the skills and industry exposure needed to push the boundaries of design. Whether you’re passionate about immersive experiences in XR Design or pioneering smart products for the future, this program provides the tools and expertise to bring your ideas to life. The School of Design, IIT Jodhpur currently offers two MDes programs: XR Design and Smart Product Design.
MDes in XR Design
The MDes XR Design is a pathbreaking program in the emerging area of Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality (MR), and Virtual Reality (VR) experience design that addresses the growing need of the industry to create useful, engaging, and socially relevant experiences that extend the real world or live entirely in the virtual, in areas such as healthcare, entertainment, and education.
MDes in Smart Product Design
The world around us is undergoing a dramatic transformation. We are increasingly interconnected, with a growing number of everyday products evolving into intelligent companions. The MDes in Smart Product Design is crafted to meet the growing demand for professionals who can create innovative, user-centric products that harness the power of smart technology. This program is designed to bridge the gap between cutting-edge technologies, user experience (UX) principles, and design methodology. We aim to delve into the world of smart products, from connected devices to AI-powered systems, learning to design seamless interactions that not only leverage technology's power but also enrich people's lives.
This program is ideal for aspiring designers who are passionate about innovation and eager to push the boundaries of physical and digital experiences. As the world embraces smart technology, the demand for skilled designers who can create user-centered, intuitive, and intelligent products is skyrocketing. The MDes in Smart Product Design will prepare future designers to be leaders in this dynamic field, shaping the future of how we interact with the world around us.
Office of the School of Design
Phone: 0291-280-1782 (between 10:00 AM and 05:00 PM on working days)
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 06 Mar 2026 - 04:42 PM