Summer Internship | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
Summer Internship Report 2021
Summer Internship Report 2022
Summer Internship Report 2023
Summer Internship Report 2024
Summer Internship Report 2025
Summer Internships are eight weeks long. They are a mandatory requirement. For the two-year MBA program, and take place during the months of April-May. Summer Internship is a quintessential and integral part of the MBA Programme at SME Jodhpur, where students intern with their chosen organization for 6-10 weeks after their first year. The internship programme helps students gain first-hand experience in a particular industry by providing them with ample opportunities to innovate, and challenge ideas and techniques imbibed in the first year. It also helps them in being more receptive to market needs, and in deciding their area of specialization in the second year. The summer internship also has an academic component: student interns prepare a report on the summer assignment and present it to the organization. They are also required to share their learning with the Institute before they register for the second year. The requirement of making a formal presentation about the project to the company and to the Institute ensures that sufficient rigor and discipline are brought in to this exercise. Note: Keeping in mind the current COVID-19 situation, we are flexible with industries offering their internship program in physical as well as online mode.    Summer Internship Report
Summer Internship Process SUMMER PLACEMENT Step 1 (September Onwards) The company contacts the Placements Committee, schedules a date and makes a PPT to the students interested and eligible to participate in the process. Step 2 (October Onwards) The resumes of interested candidates are sent to the company. The company in turn reverts with a shortlist. The company's slot in the placement process is confirmed by the Placement Committee. Step 3 (October - December) The process begins. Selection processes of various participating companies are organized by slot. Recruitment processes of companies in the same slot progress in parallel. Step 4 (April - June) Final acceptance of the offers is communicated to the company, and the students are available to join work from April. For any additional information, do not hesitate to contact the Placement Committee at placement_sme@iitj.ac.in or Corporate Relations Office, SME corporate_sme@iitj.ac.in
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM