Database List: All
Database List: All
expand all descriptions
ACM Digital Library (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1954
ACM Digital Library provides access to 60 peer-reviewed scholarly journals; 7 technical magazines, including Communications of the ACM (ACM's flagship magazine), ACM’s complete collection of conference proceedings containing over 2,500 volumes of scholarly materials; and 37 technical newsletters sponsored by ACM’s technical Special Interest Groups (SIGS).
American Chemical Society (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1996
Access to ACS Archives from 1879.
Provides access to complete collection of journals from American Chemical Society.
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Provides access to complete collection of journals from American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA).
American Institute of Physics (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Access to the AIP Archives from 1931.
The American Institute of Physics (AIP) is a non-profit corporation chartered in 1931 to advance and diffuse the knowledge of physics and its application to human welfare. An umbrella organisation for 10 Member Societies, AIP represents more than 134,000 scientists, engineers and educators and is one of the world's largest publishers of physics journals.AIP's prestigious core journals (journals.aip.org) - many of which are among the most highly cited in their field - form the core of physics literature in libraries worldwide. With their high technical and editorial standards, these publications attract the most vital and current research papers from the world's leading authorities in fields ranging from chemistry, mathematics, fluid dynamics, and more. AIP's online platform(Scitation) hosts more than 1,000,000 articles from more than 170 scholarly publications for 25 learned society publishers, in fields including physics, chemistry, geoscience, engineering, acoustics, and more.
American Mathematical Society (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
American Physical Society (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1893
Provides access to 17 leading peer-reviewed research journals, which include Physical Review Letters, Physical Review X, Physical Review, and Reviews of Modern Physics. Access to the APS-ALL collection, including PROLA.
American Society for Microbiology Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
Provides access to complete collection of American Society for Microbiology Journals.
Annual Reviews (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Annual Reviews journals are among the most highly cited in the scientific literature, and are available in print and online to individuals, institutions, and consortia throughout the world. Since 1932, Annual Reviews has offered comprehensive, timely collections of critical reviews written by leading scientists. Annual Reviews volumes are published each year for 46 focused disciplines within the Biomedical, Life, Physical, and Social Sciences including Economics.
ASCE Library (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
Provides access to 35 journals in the field of civil engineering
ASME Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
The ASME Collection provide access to 33 journals, including the Complete Package for ASME Journals + AMR
Begell Digital Library Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2024.
Publisher: Begell House
Bentham Science Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
Bentham Science is one of the leading publishers specializing in science, technology, and medical research, providing academic researchers and industrial professionals with the latest information across diverse fields of science and technology.
Bloomsbury Publishing (eBooks)
BMJ Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
Cambridge University Press (eBooks)
Cambridge University Press (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Canadian Geotechnical Journal Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2023 and 2024.
Chemicals & Engineering News (C&EN) Global Enterprise Note: Access to C&EN Archives from 1923 to 2015.
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
De Gruyter (eBooks)
EBSCO eBooks Note: EBSCO eBooks
List of Subscribed Titles
Economic & Political Weekly
Economic & Political Weekly (EPW), published by the Sameeksha Trust, a registered charitable trust since 1949, is one of the Indian publications that enjoy a global reputation for excellence and scholarship. It occupies a special place in the intellectual history of independent India. It publishes analysis of contemporary affairs and academic papers in the social sciences. The focus of the EPW is economic issues, but it is truly a multidisciplinary publication covering sociology, political science, history, gender and environment studies. EPW publishes both research in social sciences in the “Special Articles” Section and informed comment on current affairs in the “Commentary Section”
Edzter (Digital Magazines and Newspapers)
Elsevier's ScienceDirect (eBooks)
Elsevier's ScienceDirect (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
Emerald Publishing Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
EPWRF India Time Series Note: For access to this resource, please contact the Library.
Single user access.
G. M. Homsy et al. Multimedia Fluid Mechanics Online
Multimedia Fluid Mechanics Online (MFMO) is the perfect complement to any course in Fluid Mechanics. This online product combines original content from the DVD edition with a new interface optimized for all major browsers and operating systems. Simulations and videos have been remastered to run without plug-ins and the text is now MathJax-enabled for the best learning experience online ... this product is upgradable and we are considering the addition of new content in the near future.
Subjects: Mathematics, Engineering, Fluid Dynamics and Solid Mechanics, Thermal-Fluids Engineering
Gale Archive Note: Archive Collections :
1. The Economist Historical Archive (1843-2020)
2. Nineteenth Century Collections Online
3. Women's Studies Archive
Global Newspaper Index
Grammarly Note: Click for Registration Process
Harvard Business Review Note: For access to this resource, please contact the Library.
Single user access.
Human Affairs Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2023 and 2024.
ICE Publishing Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
IEEE Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1998
Wayfless URL for Shibboleth Authentication:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/ servlet/wayf.jsp?entityId= https://idp.iitj.ac.in/idp/ shibboleth&url=https%3A%2F% 2Fieeexplore.ieee.org% 2FXplore%2Fhome.jsp
Click here for List of e-Journals
Click here for User Guide
IndianJournals.com (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
IndianJournals.com provides access to a comprehensive collection of 258 academic journals covering diverse disciplines, including Agriculture, Animal Science, Applied Science, Biotechnology, Life Sciences, Business Management, Computer Science, Medical Science, Nursing, Pharmacy, and Social Sciences. It highlights academic papers from India, showcasing localized research and supporting Indian academia.
IndiaStat Note: For access to this resource, please contact the Library.
Indiastat.com serves with authentic and perhaps the most comprehensive compilation of secondary level socio-economic statistical information about India and its states on various socio-economic parameters. These parameters are: General Info, Demographics, Economy, Agriculture, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Environment and Forest, Industries, Infrastructure, Companies, Education, Health, Housing, Labour& Workforce, Polity, Media, Insurance, Tourism, Crime & Law, Social Welfare & Developmental Schemes etc.
As its core activity, Datanet collects, collates and compiles in ready to use socio-economic statistical data about India, its various sectors, regions, states and districts to make it available online.
Institute of Physics (IOP) (eBooks)
Institute of Physics (IOP) Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1998
Access to the IOP e-Journals Archive from 1874 to 2011
Intellect Discover Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2023 and 2024.
Click on the icon for expanding the subscribed journals.
The following Nature Journals are subscribed.
Journal of Fandom Studies
Studies in South Asian Film & Media
Journal of Fluid Mechanics Note: Publisher: Cambridge University Press
Access of JFM Archive from vol.1 to vol. 401 .
Journal of Geology Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2023 and 2024.
Publisher: University of Chicago Press
JoVE: Journal of Visualized Experiments Note: JoVE is a video journal.
JSTOR was founded in 1995 to build trusted digital archives for scholarship. Today, we work with the scholarly community to preserve their work and the materials they rely upon, and to build a common research platform that promotes the discovery and use of these resources. In 2009, JSTOR merged with and became a service of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit organization helping the academic community use digital technologies to preserve the scholarly record and to advance scholarship and teaching in sustainable ways. The majority of content in the archive is journal literature, though inclusion of other materials such as conference proceedings, transactions, pamphlets, monographs, manuscripts, and other materials is growing.
Currently, there are more than 2500 titles, including previous titles, as well as other content available. New titles and other materials are being added regularly. The collections available to the members of the Consortium are:
Art & Sciences I–XII, Life Sciences, Ireland, Ecology & Botany II, Global Plants, 19th-Century British Pamphlets, Struggles for Freedom: Southern Africa, World Heritage Sites: Africa, Business IV.
Click here for List of e-Journals
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (Walter Kluwer) Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
McGraw-Hill Education - Access Engineering
MIS Quarterly Note: (Subs. Period: 2023)
MIT Sloan Management Review Note: Accessible only for subscribed 2024 issues.
MyLOFT Note: Off-campus resource access tool.
Click here for the User Guide .
NotNul Hindi Database
One Nation One Subscription (ONOS) Note: Remote Access via INFED IDP
The Prime Minister of India in his address to the Nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 15th August, 2022, had pointed out the importance of Research and Development in our country in the Amrit Kaal . He had given the clarion call of "Jai Anusandhan" on the occasion. The National Education Policy, 2020 (NEP 2020) has also identified research as a corequisite for outstanding education and development in our country. In response to the vision of making India Atmanirbhar and Viksitbharat@2047 , the Government of India approved One Nation One Subscription scheme to provide country-wide access to international high impact scholarly research articles and journal publications to students, faculty and researchers of all Higher Education Institutions managed by the central government and state governments and Research & Development Institutions of the central government.
How to Access resources under ONOS ?
The different types of access modules under ONOS based on the existing infrastructure of the participating institutions are as under:
For Institutions who have their own static IP address for subscription to journal resources (example: University / Central Government Higher Education Institutions/ Research Institutions, etc.): For such institutions, access will be available through:
Off-campus Access through INFED: using user Id and password through Shibboleth based Institute Identity Provider (IDP) authenticated by INFED Access Management Federation setup at INLIBNET Centre, Gandhinagar.
Campus wide-Network: This means any computer /laptop/mobile device connected in Campus network will automatically get access to articles from all considered publishers. No separate individual user registration is required.
Oxford University Press (eBooks)
Oxford University Press Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1996
PressReader Note: Quick Start Guide
Project MUSE (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
Project Muse Premium collection provides online access to a comprehensive selection of prestigious humanities and social sciences journals.
ProQuest Ebook Central Note: Proquest Ebook Central User Guide
List of Subscribed Titles
ProQuest Ebook Central User Guide
Royal Society of Chemistry Note: Access of RSC Archive from 1874 to 2011.
The Royal Society of Chemistry publishes 43 peer-reviewed journals, more than 1,500 print books and a collection of online databases and literature updating services.
RSC covers the core chemical sciences including related fields such as biology, biophysics, energy and environment, engineering, materials, medicine and physics. As a not-for-profit publisher, we reinvest surplus funds back into the global scientific community, supporting our mission to advance excellence in the chemical sciences.
Sage Publishing Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Science Online (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Remote Access via INFED IDP
Publisher:  American Association for the Advancement of Science
SciFinder Note: Scifinder-n Registration Link
https:// scifinder .cas.org/ registration/index.html? corpKey= F33E0F07X86F3503FX17CECF3530AE 0495C7
CAS provides pathways to published research in the world's journal and patent literature?virtually everything relevant to chemistry plus a wealth of information in the life sciences and a wide range of other scientific disciplines back to the beginning of the 20th century. Since 1907, CAS has indexed and summarized chemistry-related articles from more than 40,000 scientific journals, in addition to patents, conference proceedings and other documents pertinent to chemistry, life sciences and many other fields. In total, abstracts for more than 23 million documents are accessible online through CAS. SciFinder and SciFinder Scholar desktop research tools can be used to explore and search the CAS Substance identification is a special strength of CAS. SciFinder Scholar is a desktop research tool that provides campus-wide access to the worlds largest and most comprehensive databases of chemistry, biotechnology, engineering, life sciences and related sciences from CAS, with an ease of use never before. With SciFiner Scholar as a one single source, you can explore scientific information in several unique ways.
The CAS access provides archival access since 1907 onwards.
Click here for User Guide
Scopus is the largest abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature: scientific journals, books and conference proceedings. Delivering a comprehensive overview of the world's research output in   the fields of science, technology, medicine, social sciences, and arts   and humanities, Scopus features smart tools to track, analyze and   visualize research.
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM)
Inspired by the vision that applied mathematics should play an important role in advancing science and technology in industry, a small group of professionals from academe and industry met in Philadelphia in 1951 to start an organization whose members would meet periodically to exchange ideas about the uses of mathematics in industry. This meeting led to the organization of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM). SIAM exists to ensure the strongest interactions between mathematics and other scientific and technological communities through membership activities, publication of journals and books, and conferences.
Click here for List of e-Journals
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) Locus Archive Note: Access of SIAM Locus Archive from 1953 to 1996
SPIE Digital Library (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
The SPIE Digital Library is the world's largest collection of optics and photonics applied research. With more than 500,000 papers spanning biomedicine, communications, sensors, defense and security, manufacturing, electronics, energy, and imaging, the SPIE Digital Library is the most extensive research database available on optics and photonics research.
Springer (eBooks and LNCS) Note: Click on the icon for expanding the subscribed journals.
The following eBook collections acquired.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science
Springer Nature Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Springer is one of the world’s leading suppliers of scientific and professional information. It is the second- largest publisher of journals in the science, technology, and medicine (STM), the largest publisher of STM books. Springer Link publishes around 2,000 journals and more than 7,000 new book titles every year, in 6 main publishing fields, namely science, technology, medicine, business, transport and architecture. This is a preferred data source for researchers in academic and corporate institutions and other vital knowledge centers.
Click here for User Guide
SRELS Journal of Information and Knowledge
Taylor & Francis (eBooks)
Taylor and Francis Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
The Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET)
Open Access Journals
Thieme Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995
Turnitin Similarity Enterprise Note: Plagiarism detection tool
Click here for User Guide
Web of Science
Web of Science , provides access to the world's leading citation databases. It searches over 10,000 journals from over 45 different languages across the sciences, social sciences, and arts and humanities with back files to 1900. The citations (or footnotes) allow one to navigate forward, backward, and through journal articles and both journal and book-based proceedings. Its Analyze Tool also helps in finding hidden trends and patterns, gain insight into emerging fields of research, identify leading researchers, institutions, and journals, and trace the history of a particular field of study.
Click here for User Guide
Wiley Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
World Scientific Publishing (eBooks)
One Nation One Subscription (ONOS)
Thieme Journals (ONOS)
SPIE Digital Library (ONOS)
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (Walter Kluwer) Journals (ONOS)
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Journals (ONOS)
Key to Icons
= Audio files = Some full text = Images = OpenURL enabled = Video files
This page maintained by:
Dr. Kamlesh Patel
Powered by SubjectsPlus