Database List By Format: Research Database
Database List By Format: Research Database
expand all descriptions displaying databases filtered by Research_Database >> view all types
Begell Digital Library Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2024.
Publisher: Begell House
EPWRF India Time Series Note: For access to this resource, please contact the Library.
Single user access.
Gale Archive Note: Archive Collections :
1. The Economist Historical Archive (1843-2020)
2. Nineteenth Century Collections Online
3. Women's Studies Archive
IndiaStat Note: For access to this resource, please contact the Library.
Indiastat.com serves with authentic and perhaps the most comprehensive compilation of secondary level socio-economic statistical information about India and its states on various socio-economic parameters. These parameters are: General Info, Demographics, Economy, Agriculture, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Environment and Forest, Industries, Infrastructure, Companies, Education, Health, Housing, Labour& Workforce, Polity, Media, Insurance, Tourism, Crime & Law, Social Welfare & Developmental Schemes etc.
As its core activity, Datanet collects, collates and compiles in ready to use socio-economic statistical data about India, its various sectors, regions, states and districts to make it available online.
SciFinder Note: Scifinder-n Registration Link
https:// scifinder .cas.org/ registration/index.html? corpKey= F33E0F07X86F3503FX17CECF3530AE 0495C7
CAS provides pathways to published research in the world's journal and patent literature?virtually everything relevant to chemistry plus a wealth of information in the life sciences and a wide range of other scientific disciplines back to the beginning of the 20th century. Since 1907, CAS has indexed and summarized chemistry-related articles from more than 40,000 scientific journals, in addition to patents, conference proceedings and other documents pertinent to chemistry, life sciences and many other fields. In total, abstracts for more than 23 million documents are accessible online through CAS. SciFinder and SciFinder Scholar desktop research tools can be used to explore and search the CAS Substance identification is a special strength of CAS. SciFinder Scholar is a desktop research tool that provides campus-wide access to the worlds largest and most comprehensive databases of chemistry, biotechnology, engineering, life sciences and related sciences from CAS, with an ease of use never before. With SciFiner Scholar as a one single source, you can explore scientific information in several unique ways.
The CAS access provides archival access since 1907 onwards.
Click here for User Guide
Scopus is the largest abstract and citation database of peer-reviewed literature: scientific journals, books and conference proceedings. Delivering a comprehensive overview of the world's research output in   the fields of science, technology, medicine, social sciences, and arts   and humanities, Scopus features smart tools to track, analyze and   visualize research.
Web of Science
Web of Science , provides access to the world's leading citation databases. It searches over 10,000 journals from over 45 different languages across the sciences, social sciences, and arts and humanities with back files to 1900. The citations (or footnotes) allow one to navigate forward, backward, and through journal articles and both journal and book-based proceedings. Its Analyze Tool also helps in finding hidden trends and patterns, gain insight into emerging fields of research, identify leading researchers, institutions, and journals, and trace the history of a particular field of study.
Click here for User Guide
One Nation One Subscription (ONOS)
Thieme Journals (ONOS)
SPIE Digital Library (ONOS)
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (Walter Kluwer) Journals (ONOS)
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Journals (ONOS)
Key to Icons
= Audio files = Some full text = Images = OpenURL enabled = Video files
This page maintained by:
Dr. Kamlesh Patel
Powered by SubjectsPlus