Main Academic Search Engines Open Access Resources OPAC of other IITs & IISERs Off-campus Resource Access Tool Plagiarism Detection Tools Writing Support Tool Reference Management Tools परिज्ञान | Insight Fair Use & Copyright Policy Books arrangement in Library
ACM Digital Library (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1954 American Chemical Society (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1996
Access to ACS Archives from 1879. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 American Institute of Physics (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Access to the AIP Archives from 1931. American Mathematical Society (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 American Physical Society (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1893 American Society for Microbiology Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 Annual Reviews (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 ASCE Library (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 ASME Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 Bentham Science Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 BMJ Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 Cambridge University Press (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 Elsevier's ScienceDirect (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 Emerald Publishing Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 ICE Publishing Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 IEEE Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1998
Wayfless URL for Shibboleth Authentication:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/ servlet/wayf.jsp?entityId= https://idp.iitj.ac.in/idp/ shibboleth&url=https%3A%2F% 2Fieeexplore.ieee.org% 2FXplore%2Fhome.jsp
IndianJournals.com (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 Institute of Physics (IOP) Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1998
Access to the IOP e-Journals Archive from 1874 to 2011 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (Walter Kluwer) Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 One Nation One Subscription (ONOS) Note: Remote Access via INFED IDP Oxford University Press Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1996 Project MUSE (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 Sage Publishing Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 Science Online (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Remote Access via INFED IDP
SPIE Digital Library (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 Springer Nature Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 Taylor and Francis Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997 Thieme Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1995 Wiley Journals (ONOS) Note: Backfiles From: 1997
Economic & Political Weekly Harvard Business Review Note: For access to this resource, please contact the Library. JoVE: Journal of Visualized Experiments Note: JoVE is a video journal. Royal Society of Chemistry Note: Access of RSC Archive from 1874 to 2011. Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM)
Bloomsbury Publishing (eBooks) Cambridge University Press (eBooks) EBSCO eBooks Note: EBSCO eBooks
List of Subscribed Titles
Elsevier's ScienceDirect (eBooks) Institute of Physics (IOP) (eBooks) McGraw-Hill Education - Access Engineering Oxford University Press (eBooks) ProQuest Ebook Central Note: Proquest Ebook Central User Guide
List of Subscribed Titles Springer (eBooks and LNCS) Note: Click on the icon for expanding the subscribed journals. Taylor & Francis (eBooks) World Scientific Publishing (eBooks)
EPWRF India Time Series Note: For access to this resource, please contact the Library. IndiaStat Note: For access to this resource, please contact the Library. SciFinder Note: Scifinder-n Registration Link
https:// scifinder .cas.org/ registration/index.html? corpKey= F33E0F07X86F3503FX17CECF3530AE 0495C7   Scopus Web of Science
Academic Support Tools
Grammarly MyLOFT Turnitin Similarity Enterprise
Key to Icons
= Restricted resource = Some full text = OpenURL enabled = Images = Video files = Audio files
American Chemical Society (ONOS) American Institute of Physics (ONOS) Chemicals & Engineering News (C&EN) Global Enterprise Gale Archive Institute of Physics (IOP) Journals (ONOS) Journal of Fluid Mechanics Royal Society of Chemistry Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics (SIAM) Locus Archive
ARXIV arXiv Note: arXiv® is a free distribution service and an open archive for scholarly articles. BRXIV bioRxiv Note: The preprint server for Biology CRXIV ChemRxiv Note: ChemRxiv (pronounced 'chem-archive') is a free submission, distribution and archive service for unpublished preprints in chemistry and related areas. ERTRXIV EarthArXiv Preprints Note: A free preprint service for the Earth sciences. ERXIV engrXiv Preprints Note: engrXiv (engineering archive) is dedicated to the dissemination of engineering knowledge quickly and efficiently." IndiaRxiv Preprints MRXIV medRxiv Note: The preprint server for Health Sciences Preprints.org PsyArXiv Preprints SRXIV SocArXiv Papers Note: Open archive of the social sciences
How can I access electronic resources on and off campus?
How do I find materials in IIT Jodhpur Library?
How do I locate materials in the library?
How many books can I borrow from library?
How to permanently delete the indexed file in Turnitin?
I am not able to access the resources. What do I do?
The article/ research paper I require is not available in library subscribed resources. What do I do?
The book I am looking for is not available in the library. What do I do?
Previously Subscribed Journal Resources
Begell Digital Library Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2024. Canadian Geotechnical Journal Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2023 and 2024. Human Affairs Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2023 and 2024. Intellect Discover Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2023 and 2024.
Click on the icon for expanding the subscribed journals. Journal of Geology Note: Content is accessible exclusively for the subscribed period: 2023 and 2024. MIT Sloan Management Review Note: Accessible only for subscribed 2024 issues. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences Note: Accessible from 2008 to 2020 issues
World Wide Science
WorldWideScience.org is a global science gateway comprised of national and international scientific databases and portals. It accelerates scientific discovery and progress by providing one-stop searching of databases from around the world ( Architecture: What is under the Hood ). Multilingual WorldWideScience.org provides real-time searching and translation of globally-dispersed multilingual scientific literature.
Click here for WorldWideScience.org
Jurn :  Get the research you need, free. Search millions of free academic articles, chapters and theses. In the subject areas of Arts, Humanities, Business, Law, Nature, and Science.
Click here for Jurn
EBSCO HOST eBooks
Directory of Open Access Books
JournalTOCs is a Current Awareness Service (CAS) where you can discover the newest papers coming directly from the publishers as soon as they have been published online. It is meant for researchers, librarians, students and anyone who's looking for the latest or most current papers published in the scholarly literature with international coverage. It pulls together a database of Table of Contents (TOCs) from scholarly journals and provides a convenient single "one stop shop" interface to these TOCs.
It is a free service for individual users.
Click here for JournalTOCs
Proquest eBook Central
BASE: Bielefeld Academic Search Engine
What is Open Access?
Open Access literature refers to scholarly publications that are freely available for internet access without any restrictions or fees. This type of literature is digital in nature and can be read without any cost (gratis). Additionally, Open Access literature is often exempt from most copyright and licensing limitations. The term "barrier-free" access could be utilized.
“Open-access (OA) literature is digital, online, free of charge, and free of most copyright and licensing restrictions. What makes it possible is the internet and the consent of the author or copyright-holder”. -Peter Suber
Models of Open-Access Publishing
Gold Open Access
Green Open Access
Mandate (Open Access)
Embargo Open Access
Institutional Repository (IR) Open Access
What can be made available under Open Access?
There are serious, practical, successful campaigns to provide many kinds of content useful toscholars which includes.
Archival records and manuscripts images (artworks, photographs, diagrams, maps) teaching.
Government data source code conference presentations (texts, slides, audio, video) scholarly learning materials (“open education resources” and “open courseware”) monographs textbooks novels, stories, plays, and poetry newspapers.
Peer-reviewed research articles.
ARXIV arXiv arXiv is a free distribution service and an open-access archive for scholarly articles in the fields of physics, mathematics, computer science, quantitative biology, quantitative finance, statistics, electrical engineering and systems science, and economics. arXiv is a collaboratively funded, community-supported resource founded by Paul Ginsparg in 1991 and maintained and operated by Cornell University . BRXIV bioRxiv bioRxiv (pronounced "bio-archive") is a free online archive and distribution service for unpublished preprints in the life sciences. It is operated by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, a not-for-profit research and educational institution. By posting preprints on bioRxiv, authors are able to make their findings immediately available to the scientific community and receive feedback on draft manuscripts before they are submitted to journals. CRXIV ChemRxiv ChemRxiv (pronounced 'chem-archive') is a free submission, distribution and archive service for unpublished preprints in chemistry and related areas.
It gives researchers across a broad range of chemistry fields the opportunity to share early results with colleagues and respond to comments and recommendations for improvement, ahead of formal peer review and publication.
ERTRXIV EarthArXiv Preprints Capturing a broad spectrum of interest and experience will help EarthArXiv consider and include the full geoscience community. An essential step to achieving this objective is to ensure broad and intersectional diversity in staffing our Advisory Council. ERXIV engrXiv Preprints engrXiv (engineering archive) is dedicated to the dissemination of engineering knowledge quickly and efficiently. engrXiv was launched in beta in July 2016 under the direction of Devin R. Berg, associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Stout, and in partnership with the Center for Open Science. IndiaRxiv Preprints A Preprints Repository Service for India
Maintained by Open Access India.
MRXIV medRxiv medRxiv (pronounced "med-archive") is a free online archive and distribution server for complete but  unpublished manuscripts (preprints) in the medical, clinical, and related health sciences. Preprints are preliminary reports of work that have not been peer-reviewed. Preprints.org Preprints.org is a free preprint server subsidized by MDPI in Basel, Switzerland. PsyArXiv Preprints PsyArXiv (psychology archive) is a free preprint service for the psychological sciences , designed to facilitate rapid dissemination of psychological research. PsyArXiv is a creation of the Society for the Improvement of Psychological Science (SIPS) and the Center for Open Science (COS).
SRXIV SocArXiv Papers SocArXiv , open archive of the social sciences, provides a free, non-profit, open access platform for social scientists to upload working papers, preprints, and published papers, with the option to link data and code. SocArXiv is dedicated to opening up social science, to reach more people more effectively, to improve research, and build the future of scholarly communication.
Directory of Open Access Journals
CORE CORE CORE’s mission is to aggregate all open access research outputs from repositories and journals worldwide and make them available to the public. In this way CORE facilitates free unrestricted access to research for all. CORE is a not-for-profit service delivered by The Open University and Jisc . SCIOPEN Science Open ScienceOpen is a discovery platform with interactive features for scholars to enhance their research in the open, make an impact, and receive credit for it. We provide context building services for publishers, to bring researchers closer to the content than ever before. Our advanced search and discovery functions, combined with post-publication peer review, recommendation, social sharing, and collection-building features make ScienceOpen the only research platform you’ll ever need. F1000Research An innovative open access publishing platform offering rapid publication and open peer review, whilst supporting data deposition and sharing.
Open Research Central Open Research Central is a not-for-profit organisation created to enable the international research community to establish standards for academic publishing.
These platforms are currently operated by F1000 Research Limited and use a model of rapid publication followed by transparent invited peer review, and require the inclusion of all supporting data.
Open Access Books
bookboon Note: Free textbooks written by professors from the world’s top universities, all on one easy-to-use online ebook platform. Cambridge University Press OA Books JSTOR Open Books Note: Open and free content on JSTOR OAPEN Books Note: OAPEN Library contains freely accessible academic books, mainly in the area of humanities and social sciences Open Access publisher Note: Open Access publisher in the Humanities and Social Sciences in the UK: a not-for-profit Social Enterprise run by scholars who are committed to making high-quality research freely available to readers around the world. Open Textbook Library Note: Open textbooks are textbooks that have been funded, published, and licensed to be freely used, adapted, and distributed. Open Textbooks Note: Free, adaptable, openly licensed textbooks and supplemental resources. OpenStax CNX Library Note: OpenStax publishes high-quality, peer-reviewed, openly licensed textbooks that are absolutely free online and low cost in print. Taylor & Francis Open Access Books Note: There are 1000 plus eBooks available as Open Access.
OPAC of other IITs
IIT Bhubaneswar IIT Bombay IIT Delhi IIT Gandhinagar IIT Goa IIT Guwahati IIT Kanpur IIT Kharagpur IIT Madras IIT Roorkee IIT Ropar IIT Varanasi
OPAC of IISERs
IISER Berhampur IISER Kolkata IISER Mohali
OPAC of other Institutes
Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai
Union Catalogue of E-Resources
Union Catalogue of E-Resources An online database of e-journal collections available at IIT, IISc and IISER Libraries in India.
MyLOFT- Log in
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Library has provided a remote access facility to the current Students, Faculty Members, and Staff Members to access the subscribed e-resources from an off-campus location through “RemoteXs” software service.
What is RemoteXs?
RemoteXs is a software service through which one can access the Library subscribed scholarly content from a location other than the IIT Jodhpur campuses. It provides users with a single window access to the digital assets of the Library from a remote location, anywhere, anytime all you need is a working Internet connection.
To facilitate and encourage the use of e-resources at the point of need & use, IIT Jodhpur Library provides an off- campus (remote) access to subscribed e-resources.
Does not require any configuration, operating system or specific devices, to access the e-resources from off-campus.
Compatible with any device and any operating system
Access provided through LDAP credentials
Browse and search facility to explore resources
Who can use the facility?
The following Library members are entitled to use this facility:
Currently registered students,
Faculty Members, and
How to log in?
To use this facility, please follow the steps below:
Logon to the IIT Jodhpur Library Website (library.iitj.ac.in);
On the front page, Go to “Resources”;
In the third column, Under the "Research Support Tools" you will find RemoteXs Portal and Instructions for using RemoteXs;
Click on “RemoteXs Portal” or follow https://iitj.remotexs.co/user/login link;
You can log-in with your LDAP credentials and accept the “Usage Policy” (please read the Usage Policy carefully);
Now you are ready to browse your favourite resources.
Please download user guides, in PDF or PPTS
MyLOFT User Guide Vedio
What is Turnitin?
Turnitin is an online software tool to check the originality of a work and to prevent plagiarism. The tool offers a completely web-based service to manage the process of submitting and tracking papers electronically, providing better and faster feedback to the authors.
Why use an anti-plagiarism tool?
IIT Jodhpur Library provides Turnitin- an Anti-plagiarism software tool to:
1. To facilitate and encourage the quality of research,
2. To prevent authors from intentionally or unintentionally plagiarizing any work.
What are the benefits of this tool?
The following are the benefits of this tool:
1. It does not require any configuration, operating system or specific devices, to access the Turnitin;
2. It is compatible with any device and any operating system;
3. The access is provided through eMail credentials;
4. It preserves the original format of the research paper;
5. It quickly identifies sources of plagiarised material;
6. It supports for multiple file formats (MS Word, WordPerfect, PostScript, PDF, HTML, RTF, and plain text);
7. It has bibliography and Quotation filters;
8. It encourages students to think about their referencing and citation skills;
9. When used as part of the development of academic writing skills, it helps prevent against accidental plagiarism;
10. It acts as a deterrent against plagiarism; and
11. It works as a real aid to marking by highlighting where students have referenced correctly and used the work of others well.
Who can use this facility?
The following Library members are entitled to use this service:
1. Research Scholar;
2. Faculty Members; and
3. Staff members
How to log in?
To use this facility, please follow the steps below:
1. Login to the IIT Jodhpur Library Website (library.iitj.ac.in);
2. Go to “Resources” on navigation Menu and click on it;
3. You are now at “Database List: All”;
4. Click on "T" and then click on " Turnitin Similarity Enterprise"; and
5. Faculty Members and Research Scholars can log-in with their credentials, who have registered with Turnitin.
6. URL to access Turnitin: https://iitj.turnitin.com
How to prevent plagiarism?
Please note the following points regarding plagiarism and its prevention.
1. Plagiarism is, using and presenting someone else’s ideas, work, writing, research etc. for their own purpose. It is an offense. It is advised to strictly avoid plagiarising any ideas, writings, data or others’ creation by following certain good practices because somebody must have put in a lot of effort to present their ideas.
2. If you need to refer and quote any such works in your publications or literary work, please acknowledge them by according proper citation in your work. Reference managers (like Mendeley and Zotero) can be used for reference management and citation.
3. It is advised to protect your intellectual property of publications, designs, and products through copyright, trademarks, and patents.
4. Please pass your research work through the anti-plagiarism software licensed by the Institute, before publishing.
DrillBit is a sophisticated plagiarism detection tool designed to help researchers, educators, and content creators identify instances of plagiarism in written works. It access provided by Shodhsindhu Consortium of INFLIBNET Centre, Gandhinagar. Utilizing advanced algorithms and linguistic analysis, DrillBit scans documents and compares them against vast databases of existing content, including academic papers, articles, and web pages. Its intuitive interface and customizable settings allow users to tailor the plagiarism detection process to their specific needs, ensuring accurate results and efficient workflow. With DrillBit, users can maintain academic integrity, uphold originality standards, and safeguard intellectual property.
How to login to the DrillBit Account?
1. Go to https://www.drillbitplagiarism.com
2. At the top right, click on the “Get started” button
Download User Guide
Gr ammarly is an online grammar checking and spells checking platform.
One time Self-Registration Process (for New Users)
Step 1: Go to https://www.grammarly.com/enterprise/signup (Mandatory to sign up from this URL)
Step 2: Fill up the self-registration form and click Agree & Sign up. Ensure that users are registering from their respective official email id ( @iitj.ac.in )
Note: Do not Sign up with Google / Facebook / Apple
Step 3: After clicking Sign up, a verification email will be sent to the user's institutional email ID.
Please Note :  Once your credentials are verified, an activation email will be sent to your institutional email ID and your registration is successful. Do check your spam folder in case the link is not received in your INBOX. Once registered successfully, you will land on the 'Grammarly Editor' upon login.
Step 4: Kindly Verify the activation mail from Grammarly.
Once registered, users will land on the 'Grammarly Editor, ' which is easy to use and explore .
The MS Word Plugin can be downloaded from the support page after registration from the link https://www.grammarly.com/office-addin/windows . The same User ID and Password credentials will grant access to use the Plugin for users.
Contact us at office_library@iitj.ac.in for any queries or technical issues.
QuillBot is an academic writing platform that may be used to improve the clarity and professionalism of your writing by rephrasing phrases and sentences and summarizing lengthy passages. Please follow the steps below to have access to QuillBot.
How to access QuillBot:
Step 1: Go to https://quillbot.com/ and click on Log In
Step 2: Sign up using your official email ID (@iitj.ac.in) and set up a password.
Step 3: Click on the verification email you received to activate Premium.
Salient features of QuillBot:
Paraphrasing tool : The multilingual paraphrasing tool helps you rewrite and improve the clarity of any sentence, paragraph, or article.
Grammar Checker : Ensure accurate grammar, do spell check, verify punctuation, and rectify numerous grammatical problems. Additionally, there is a complimentary essay checker, a grammar checker, and various other tools available to enhance academic success.
AI Detector : Paste your text to detect AI-generated content like ChatGPT, GPT-4, and Google Bard. QuillBot’s free AI detector will flag the text for further inspection and keep your writing human.
Translator : QuillBot Translator simplifies cross-language communication, ensuring accuracy and clarity in diverse contexts, making language barriers a thing of the past.
Citation Generator : Describe or evaluate your sources according to APA, MLA, Chicago, Harvard, etc., and let Scribbr’s Citation Generator find and fill in all the relevant information automatically.
QuillBot Chrome Extensions : Download QuillBot extension to use Paraphraser, Grammar Checker, and Summarizer on whatever tab you’re typing on. Whether you’re composing an email, sharing a post, or drafting an essay, you can polish your writing without leaving the page.
QuillBot University : Register for live webinars, learn methods for enhancing your academic writing, productivity, and leverage tools to improve your writing and research skills.
Other Similar tools
Trinka is an AI-powered free grammar checker and language enhancement writing assistant designed for academic and technical writing.
Wordtune helps you rephrase your sentences to say exactly what you mean through clear, compelling, and authentic writing .
Reference Management Tools
EndNote is a software tool for publishing and managing bibliographies, citations and references . It is available online as it is complemenrywith Web of Sciece.
Click here for Endnote
Mendeley is a free reference manager and an academic social network. Manage your research, showcase your work, connect and collaborate . It is available as Online and Standalone application for computer, tablet and mobile.
Click here for Mendeley
Zotero is a free and open-source reference management software, easy-to-use tool to help you collect, organize, cite, and share research. It is available online and standalone application with data capture connector for Mozila Firefox and Chrome web browsers.
Click here for Zotero
परिज्ञान | Insight - Library Newsletter Jan-Mar 2024
Parignyan_Jan_Mar_2024 by S. R. Ranganathan Learning Hub, IIT Jodhpur
Fair Use and Copyright Policy of Electronic Resources
Electronic Resources @ IIT Jodhpur Library
IIT Jodhpur Library licenses various electronic resources for teaching, research and private study of the IIT Jodhpur community.
The library has signed institutional license agreements with several publishers and consortia to provide access to the scholarly material, for their fair use only.
Can make limited print or electronic copies.
Can use for teaching, research, discussion, and other academic purposes.
Can send/post links.
Can share limited content within the professional community.
Cannot share resources with non-IIT Jodhpur community.
Cannot do systematic/robotic or substantial downloading, copying, printing etc.
Cannot sell/re-distribute the content to outside IITJ Academic Community.
Cannot publish in other websites/blogs/forums.
All users of such resources subscribed by IIT Jodhpur Library must adhere to the copyright laws of publishers and consortia.
No copyrighted work may be copied, published, disseminated, displayed, performed, without obtaining prior permission from the copyright holder except in accordance with fair use or licensed agreement.
This includes DVDs/CDs and other copyrighted material also.
Any infringement will lead to termination of access to the electronic resources of IIT Jodhpur Library.
Electronic resources subscribed by IIT Jodhpur are restricted to users of IIT Jodhpur by license agreement for the purposes of research, teaching, and private study.
Using these resources for commercial purpose, systematic downloading, copying or distributing of information is strictly prohibited.
In simple words, plagiarism is using and presenting someone else's ideas, work, writing, research etc. for their own purpose. It is an offense.
It is advised to strictly avoid memplagiating any ideas, writings, data or others' creation by following certain good practices because some body must have put in lot of effort to present their ideas.
Should you need to refer any such works in your publications or literary work, please acknowledge them properly through citation.
Reference managers like Mendeley , Zotero can be used for reference management and citation.
Protect your intellectual property publications, designs, and products through copyright, trademarks and patents.
How do I locate materials in the library?
Click here for PDF
This page maintained by:
Dr. Kamlesh Patel
Powered by SubjectsPlus