Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ) | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome to the Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ), IIT Jodhpur
An opportunity to engage in mentored research with
IIT Jodhpur faculty, explore advanced laboratories, and gain hands-on project,
technical, and research experience.
IIT Jodhpur has a provision for direct admission to the meritorious B.Tech. students from NITs to pursue Ph.D. at IIT Jodhpur. In order to provide a prior exposure of the state-of-the-art research labs of the different academic units at IIT Jodhpur, the institute has launched a summer internship program “Summer Undergraduate Research at Jodhpur (SURAJ)” from 2025 summer onwards. The following are the main highlights of of the SURAJ. Opportunity for NIT students to join PhD program at IIT after BTech./B.S./M.Sc. Offline Mode For Easy Access State-of-the-art research facilities Poster Session and Oral Presentations and Best Project Certificates Stipend of Rs.6000/- per month for maximum 2 months SURAJ offers an opportunity to gain research experience with distinguished faculty from IIT Jodhpur. Applicants are advised to explore the faculty profiles and research areas available on the IIT Jodhpur website before submitting their preferences for project mentors . Applicants can visit the IIT Jodhpur website to explore the faculty’s research areas and prioritise mentors according to their interests. They may contact faculty via email with a well-crafted SoP and resume, clearly demonstrating their willingness to learn and potential contribution to the faculty's research. Departments
Offering Internship in the IIT Jodhpur
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
School of Design
School of Liberal Arts
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development (CETSD)
Center for Education Technology (CET)
Center for AIoT and Application
Center for Technology Foresight and Policys (CTFP)
Manekshaw Centre (MCOENSSR)
Medical Technologies Center
Center for Digital Health
Rules that will be followed during the internship at the IIT Jodhpur The selected interns will be required to adhere to all the rules and code of conduct of IIT Jodhpur during the internship programme.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 17 Mar 2026 - 10:33 AM