Techscape | IIT Jodhpur
TechScape: The Science, Technology and Education Journal of IIT Jodhpur, is a periodical publication of IIT Jodhpur, in English language. The objective of the journal is to facilitate the dissemination of our work to the larger public. The journal is released thrice in an academic year, with one issue to commemorate Institute Foundation Day and one issue to commemorate the Annual Convocation, whenever these events may be held. The digital edition of this journal is hosted at https://iitj.ac.in/techscape .
View Current Issue
Aim and Scope
The aim of TechScape is to chronicle the ongoing research activities at the Institute, the campus news and highlights, opinion pieces on recent developments in science, technology and education, besides featuring invited contributions from luminaries and alumni, in various fields. It features the latest developments in research and pedagogy at IIT Jodhpur, views and commentaries on science and technology in the world at large and having connection with the Institute, in-focus features and research snippets, outreach, and campus highlights. It has articles for serious readers, understandable without specialized knowledge. The content is curated to be of general interest, in particular to the IIT Jodhpur community, and to all stakeholders at large.
TechScape: The Science, Technology and Education Journal
3 times/year OR Trimonthly
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, Jodhpur
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Dr Kshema Prakash
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar Jodhpur 342030 Rajasthan, India
Information for Authors
The Institution Publication Committee invites articles from faculty members and their PhD students for its three issues (April, August, and December) every year. The Call for Articles remains open throughout the year, and submitted entries are considered for the upcoming issue. Please read the Editorial Policy and Author Guidelines carefully before submitting your article. Editorial Policy   Submit your Article
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 28 Aug 2025 - 12:02 PM