Sustainability Policy and
Sustainable Development Efforts by IIT Jodhpur
Through Use of Emerging Technologies
Mobilize academic, fund generated, research and laboratory
capabilities, student and personnel skill, and social scientific
responsibility capacities of IIT Jodhpur to advance emerging
technologies for knowledge preservation of adapted
communities, adopt sustainable climate resilient systems,
water conservation measures, natural resource management,
and  achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
Geographic Setting: Snapshot
IIT Jodhpur students and
administration have unique
understanding of their relationship
with the environment they live in.
Here on the eastern edge of the
Thar Desert, they know intimately
the importance of co-existing
communities and their adaptations
while living with resilience to
extreme heat, water management,
soils and the flora and fauna.
While IIT Jodhpur is young, IIT
Jodhpur look with bold vision
toward the sustainability.
(*IITJ-Indian Institute of
Evolution of the
From 2019 IIT Jodhpur declared
its commitment to making Western
Rajasthan the most sustainable
desert institution in India by
setting up the Center for Emerging
Technologies for Sustainable
Development (CETSD). More can
be read from here*.
In the meantime, IIT Jodhpur
outlines its climate action plan and
also role of CETSD to affirm its
resolve to put climate resilient
technologies in the service of the
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 2
At the Center
Enable a strong internal
CETSD Action Strategy
The Climate Action Plan outlined here,
puts forward the necessary steps to
achieve this vision, charting the path
to preserving adaptation knowledge
of societies, its related technologies,
carbon neutrality, climate resilient
agriculture, zero waste, water and soil
conservation to preserve Thar desert
ecosystem. It is a data-driven strategy
which follows a “DECLARE model”
proposed by CETSD towards
achieving the objectives of the plan.
Develop a network with
industries and NGO networks for
knowledge sharing and working in
partnerships for applying emerging
technologies for achieving SDGs
structure and sustainability studies
(technology, policy, social aspects,
management, legal and financial)
expertise base within the centre
entities in IITJ, for actualizing the
emerging technology work , along
with strong capacity building, and
applying emerging technologies for
helping governmental to carry out its
Actionable focus on small
partnership viable funding with
industry and NGO to put technologies
on the ground within minimal time to
put CETSD on the global map
action for generating awareness
amongst themselves by involve them
through campus sustainability projects
and academic projects.
Link with government to enable
Responsibility: scientific social
Close connected with the other
Engage: Students take concerted
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 3
Role of CETSD Towards Climate Change Aspects of
Thar Desert Region
CETSD coordinates interdisciplinary research and community outreach to
CETSD studies the cognitive processes by which artisans, scientists, farmers
CETSD will become a hub to greenhouse gas emissions inventory for baseline
emission level study and track future course for the region.
The confluence of rapid population growth and the threat of uncertain climate
environments pose challenges for the Thar Desert Region and its ecological
improve soil and water conservation aspects.
and individuals make decisions, apply sophisticated models of decision science to
soil- water engineering problems related to this Thar desert ecosystem.
and more integrated decision making, use river flow, ecology, health and climate
changes to define the dimensions of uncertainty observed in the region is one of the
IIT Jodhpur thus aims to promote and encourage innovative educational programs
organized around climate change, emissions, natural resource use, water
conservation, public health and decision making.
IIT Jodhpur’s CETSD allows state personnel, national decision makers and scientists
to collaborate on sustainable technologies and sustainability of technologies towards
climate change solutions and societal development.
Development of GIS-based decision-support tools that foster better long-term
The Climate Change Conundrum and Solving the Micro or
Even science and technology may not reduce significantly the uncertainty associated
with climate change. The change of climate cycles leads to irregular droughts and
floods in India including the nearby the Western Rajasthan region. The large
increase in demography and better economic status of the society has increased the
expanse and intensity of urban heat island towards the rural areas too.
In collaboration with district, state, and national researchers, CETSD will produce
basic interdisciplinary research about climatic uncertainty, natural resource
availability, waste management, emissions and human decision making.
Registrant of The Higher Education Sustainability Initiative (HESI)
Further IIT Jodhpur is designed as a living laboratory and interdisciplinary
platform with following areas: 1. Ecosystem Science, 2. Sustainable Development
3. Geospatial Sciences, 4. Sustainability Auditing or accounting/ESG Financing/Risk
Mitigation), 5. Public Health, 6. Human Ecology, 7. Sustainable Urban Planning
8. Natural Resource Management (including Net Zero goals), 9. Sustainability of
CETSD documents environment changes with the Campus Sustainability Projects. It
should be equipped to be able to continuously respond to the ever-changing climate
and unique emerging needs of the society. The effectiveness of the actions of IIT
Jodhpur will be modelled in lines with Higher Education Sustainability Initiative, a
global education network under the UN of which IIT Jodhpur is a registered
member. We acknowledge the enormous support and assistance that affiliate faculty
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 4
across departments and core faculty of CETSD have put to writing this plan, with
special thanks to the students, Office of Director and Office of Infrastructure
Engineering at IIT Jodhpur.
Climate Actions in Sight of IIT Jodhpur,
1. Create a skilled and entrepreneurially developed underserved communities who
had adapted to the livelihood through local available natural resource in the Thar
2. To proactively avail community stakeholder participation, feedback and inputs on
all major climate policy, actions and related budgetary initiatives.
3. Lead by practice carbon capture, water conservation, waste management and use
of clean and renewable energy use on campus as well as amongst its stakeholders
4. Reduce campus based carbon emissions from buildings, transportation, and
waste to negligible levels by 2050.
5. Support increased energy efficiency, renewable energy and new electric vehicle
transportation and related charging requirements within campus.
6. Make sure that all new construction is being net-positive in both energy and
materials by 2050.
7.. Implement activities and technologies that turn waste into resources.
8. Support participatory activities, government schemes and local collaborations to
enable good agriculture, ecology, public health and waste management in Western
9.. Support green land use and development tools, prioritize people arriving by
walking, biking, or using electric or solar vehicle transit, thereby reducing
dependence on non-renewable fuel vehicles;
10. Implementing the shaded corridors.
11. To harvest water, monitor and digitize water grid within campus, enable and
work with water positive organizations and empower them with water conserving
technologies for societal implementation of water conservation practices.
12. Create, maintain a local food system with healthy, affordable and culturally
appropriate food for all Jodhpur residents.
13. Significantly improve air quality and reduce mining activities on the existing
remaining Aravalli ranges of the region.
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 5
Policy and Climate
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 6
Aim:  To  conserve  water  through  use  of  water  efficient  technologies,  emerging  climate
resilient science and water management strategies.
Focus: Application of climate resilient water conservation technologies developed by IIT
Jodhpur for the agrarian economy and societies of Western Rajasthan.
Key performance indicators on Campus
  Total individual building or infrastructure water consumption on campus
  Demographic water consumption per individual on campus
  Density of water saving technologies per individual
  Water use for landscape management: per unit area
  Basic volume of water available per animal or bird population for different seasons
  Water use projects enabling communities.
Key implementation strategies
  Extension of ongoing smart monitoring of water on campus
  Identifying  time  of  water  use,  locations  and  landscape  areas  of  potential  water
  Implement  of  technologies  which  are  water  efficient  and  positive  water  use
  Installing  water  management  measures,  such  as  rainwater  harvesting  and
sustainable irrigation systems.
  To  establish  community  based  water  projects  on  the  ground  for  hydro  power
Implemented Example Case Studies Through CETSD
1.  Campus  Sustainability  Projects  2020-2021  can  be  accessed  from  IITJ-Indian
Institute of Technology Jodhpur
2.  Canal  Based  Hydro  Power  Operated  Irrigation  Project  2022-23  can  be  accessed
3.  As  an  example  of  implementation  of  water  filter  technology  developed  by  IIT
Jodhpur and used in different districts of Rajasthan, India. Some glimpses of the
G filter in use at different locations are shown in Fig. 1 below.
Fig.1: G Filter a clay ceramic gravity based water filter for household water treatment
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 7
Non Renewable Energy and Carbon Foot Print
Aim:  To  use  renewable  source  for  energy  production  and  practice  it  in  a  sustainable
manner on the field.
Focus:  Application  of  resource  conserving  technologies  developed  by  IIT  Jodhpur  for
reduction of non-renewable energy source use. IITJ aspires to be  carbon neutral in all
types of energy expenses by 2050.
Key performance indicators
1.  Exhaust emission capture from diesel generators on Campus
2.  To  put  at  least  one  technology  (in  five  years)  in  locations  with  flowing  water
potential to wean farmers away from diesel water pumping devices
3.  To find the limiting value to carbon footprint per capita for an organization.
4.  Carbon emissions from water and energy use respectively.
5.  Number of carbon credits amassed by the campus or organization.
Key implementation strategies
1.  Industrial collaboration for their exhaust emission capture
2.  To serve farming communities with available running water potential across India
to help them reduce their diesel costs
3.  To do carbon foot print calculations for the organization and its infrastructure.
4.  Use electricity consumption incentive program to incorporate competitiveness to
reduce electricity use.
5.  Dissemination  of  the  knowledge  of  renewable  energy  through  programs  and
6.  To  collaborate  with  organizations  who  are  best  in  their  run  towards  carbon
Implemented Example Case Studies Through CETSD
1.  Onsite capture and utilization of exhaust CO2 for algae biomass production: The
adaptability  of  micro  algae  to  capture  carbon  dioxide  was  showcased.  The  algal
growth can help in biofuel production. This was a project practiced on campus at
2.  Hydropower use for Irrigation: The stored water potential was extracted using an
undershot waterwheel as primer and a centrifugal pump was used to pump water
to irrigate more than 100 acres of land in Lalitpur District in Uttar Pradesh. This
is illustrated in IIT Jodhpur initiative to help farmers | Affordable and Sustainable
3.  Managing  Carbon  Foot  Print  of  IITJ  Campus:  A  six-month  long  study  as  a
requirement  towards  the  completion  of  B.  Tech  degree  of  two  students  was
performed  under  the  guidance  for  Prof  Sudipta  Das,  Professor  of  Practice  from
FutureStation Advisors LLP and Office of Infrastructure at IIT Jodhpur. The report
can be accessed here.
4.  INTPART  Project:  "Collaborative  Research  Based  Education  for  Optimized
Performance of Wind Farms” is a major project running at the CETSD, IITJ.
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 8
Preservation of Flora and Fauna: Ecological Conservation
Aim: To preserve the wealth of biodiversity present on campus and in the region.
Focus:  Application  of  visual  and  motion  based  sensing  technologies  as  well  as
participatory citizen based app based approaches developed by IIT Jodhpur.
Key performance indicators on Campus
1.  Statistics of the distinct species of animals and plants
2.  Density of the location of habitats or nests of animals, and birds.
3.  Temperature, humidity, wind speed and solar irradiance in the location under
4.  Availability of food and water for the animal and plant biodiversity.
Key implementation strategizes
1.  To  undertake  baseline  survey  of  biodiversity  within  the  region  including  the
2.  To  recommends  removal  of  invasive  species,  plant  local  plants  and  improve
afforestation with local species within the habitat
3.  Creation of constructed wetland
4.  Develop local produce and implement purchase of local foods and its sustenance.
5.  To create a database with participatory awareness.
Implemented Example Case Studies Through CETSD
1.  Biodiversity  mapping  project  under  the  campus  sustainability  projects:
development of Prakriti1.1 app
2.  Saline Soil Reclamation and Water Conservation using Sub-surface Porous Vessel
Technologies developed at IIT Jodhpur.
Fig. 2: a) Prakriti 1.1 app, a online Thar Desert bio-inventory platform b) the SSPV
technology in front of Jodhpur club.
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 9
Aim: To manage waste using Rethink, Reuse, Refurbish, Rot, Recycle, Refuse, Redesign,
Reduce  and  Recover  strategies  on  Campus  and  at  locations  of  intervention  by  IIT
Focus:  Application  of  indigenous,  emerging  smart  waste  management  technologies  as
well as sustainable use and disposal strategies by IIT Jodhpur.
Key performance indicators on Campus
1.  Statistics of the type of waste generated annually across the different
infrastructures across the campus
2.  Per capita solid waste production
3.  Percent waste composted, recycles, reused, and recovered.
4.  Amount of food wastage reduced on campus.
5.  Amount of specific plastic and paper types recycled.
Key Implementation Strategizes
1.  Management strategy for source segregation of solid waste
2.  Local design of campus waste management technologies
3.  Adaptation of available indigenous technologies
4.  Smart waste transport routing strategy
5.  Reuse strategies for excavation or construction waste
6.  Decontamination of soils using emerging technologies
7.  Location suitability mapping for transient waste storage
8.  Collaboration and tie-up with all regional stakeholders to enable regional waste
Implemented Example Case Studies Through CETSD
1.  The Office of Students and Office of Infrastructure Engineering collaborated to put
Khamba Composters across different locations as shown in Fig. 3 a and 3b.
2.  The  Office  of  Infrastructure  Engineering  also  placed  the  mincing  machines
designed  by  Central  Workshop  Office  Colleagues  under  the  guidance  of  CETSD
affiliate faculty. The machine is shown in Fig. 3 c below.
Fig.  3:  a)  Khamba  Composter  for  organic  wet  waste  in  Girls  Hostel  b)  Khamba
Composters  at  Director’s  Bungalow  c)  Mincing  Machine  for  tender  coconut  and  hard
horticulture waste simplification to fiber form.
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 10
Teaching Sustainability and Research
Aim: To undertake research that is related to sustainability of technologies and
technologies towards sustainability which help in achieving the SDG at CETSD, IIT
Focus: To provide faculty staff, students and society access to formal or informal research
learning  opportunities  to  develop  their  knowledge,  hands-on  skills  and
understanding relating to sustainability through CETSD.
Key performance indicators on Campus
1.  Programs available to all stakeholder to improve their sustainability education
2.  Number of students enrolled in the individual programs of sustainability and
3.  Projects which train of aspects of sustainability and natural resource
4.  Dedicated staff members related to sustainability projects
5.  Dedicated core and affiliate faculty to teach concepts of sustainability in different
inter-disciplinary areas of sciences, engineering and technology.
Key Implementation Strategizes
1.  Student Enrolment: More students are enrolled in PG programs on PhD and MS
(Research) on Sustainability and Technology at CETSD
2.  Sustainability and Livelihood Projects: To vie for governmental and non-
governmental opportunities which can bring livelihood and knowledge
dissemination program to the neighbouring societies.
3.  To create new MDP or certification program which can disseminate about
sustainability to government, non-government and society continuing education
Implemented Example Case Studies Through CETSD
1.  Rolling advertisement for PhD in Sustainability and Technology at CETSD from
2.  MS (Research) in Sustainability and Technology for self-financing students from
3.  STI hub (2023-26) for dissemination of appropriate technologies developed at
IIT Jodhpur to communities across different parts of Thar Desert.
For More Details
Please write to
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Phone: 091 (291) 2801717
2022-23 CETSD PAGE 11