Indian Institute of Technology
PG Course Booklet
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Non Graded Institute Level Courses
M.Tech. and Ph.D.
Systems Engineering and Project Management
Offered for  M.Tech Program
L-T-P [C]  1-0-0  [1]
Systems  Engineering  is  an  interdisciplinary  approach  and  means  to  enable    realization  of
successful  systems.  It  focuses  on  defining  requirements  and  then  proceeding  with  design
synthesis and system validation while considering the complete problem including operations,
performance, test, manufacturing, cost, and schedule.
This  course  intends  to  help  students  to  develop  the  capability  of  systems  thinking  by
introducing  basics  of  systems    engineering  theory,  methods,  and  tools  through  lecture  and
After taking this class, you should be able to:
  Develop a systems engineering plan for a realistic project.
Judge the applicability of any proposed process, strategy, or methodology for systems
  Apply systems engineering tools (e.g., requirements development and management,
robust design, Design Structure Matrix) to realistic problems.
  Know how to proactively design for and manage system lifecycle targets.
  Understanding TRL and MRL concepts
  Use project management tools
Introduction - Terminology, Systems Thinking, Today’s Challenges (1 L)
  Requirements Elicitation,  Documenting System Requirements - Proper Specification
Language, Depth of Definition (1 L)
  Requirements Analysis - Context Diagrams, Functional Analysis, State Diagrams (2 L)
  Requirements Validation - User Feedback Techniques, Requirements Reviews (1 L)
  System Architecture - Subsystem Definition, Hierarchical Analysis, Design for Reuse,
Interface Management (2 L)
  Specialty Engineering - Producibility/Manufacturability, Reliability/Availability,
Maintainability/Serviceability, Usability/User Interface, Design-to-Cost (2 L)
  Managing Systems Engineering - Estimating, Planning, Tracking, System Engineering
Management Plan, Work Breakdown Structure, Technical Reviews (2 L)
Introduction to the concepts of TRL (Technology Readiness Levels) and
MRL(Manufacturability Readiness level)  (1 L)
  Course Project  ( 8 hrs of self-work corresponding to 2 scheduled contact hours)
o  Application of Systems Engineering Methodology to the Major Project (M.Tech)
o  Use of Microsoft Project as the software tool for managing their M.Tech project
Presentation of Systems Engineering Process of the Major Project
1.  Introduction to Systems Engineering by Ian Faulconbridge, Michael Ryan (Kindle
Argos Press, 2015.
2.  Systems Engineering Fundamentals
Innovation and IP Management
Management of Innovation and IP
Offered for  All  M.  Tech  and  PhD  students  <Shall  also  be
considered for B.Tech Students>
L-T-P [C]  1–0–0 [1]
Prerequisite  Not required
This  course  is  intended  to  familiarise  students  with  basic  concepts  of  IP,  its
relevance  to  innovations  and  their  effective  exploitation  including  emerging  societal
The Instructor will:
1.  Highlight concept of Innovations and processes that leads to innovations.
2.  Illustrate the significance of  IPR in the context of  Innovations and Demonstrate
how information in IP data bases are used to enhance quality of innovations.
3.  Explain  how  IP  can  be  meaningfully  Exploited  in  commerce  and  for  benefit  of
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Use IP information as an effective resource for innovation.
2.  Protecting innovations as IP.
3.  Design IP strategies for protection of innovations and commercial exploitations.
Module I: Types of creations and innovations using the mind, Modes of IP protection of
the output of the Human mind, Such as Patents, Design registrations, Trade Mark,
Copyright, Trade Secrets, Geographical Indications. (5L)
Module-2 : Searching IP databases to extract technical information for research.
Concept of Patentable inventions. Evaluating Inventions for patentability and drafting of
patent specifications. Procedures for patent applications and their examination.
Introducing processes for Design registrations, Trade Mark, Copyright, Trade Secrets,
Geographical Indications. (6L)
Module-3 : Use of IP in Trade and Commerce. Societal issues. (3L)