M.Tech. in Bioscience and Bioengineering | Office of Academics Affairs | IIT Jodhpur
M.Tech. in Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering aspires to cater to the technological requirements of the country by conducting high-quality, translatable Bioengineering research. The biological world is full of natural wonders beginning from microscopic bacteria to multicellular organisms. Using a reductionist approach, each organism can be broken down into its subsystems, which continue to provide us with new knowledge on how evolution has perfected these systems over millenia. Conversely, one can also take a systems biology approach and appreciate the whole organism as a system that grows and continuously adapts to the environment. Beginning from thermodynamically efficient cellular systems to the molecular motors of the flagellar motor, each product of evolution is an optimized engineering design which can be translated into real-life applications across disciplines. Furthermore, the call for support from today’s data-driven biology has been answered by advancements in computational biology that permit solving biology problems using artificial intelligence and machine learning approaches. Genomics, proteomics, transcriptomics and metabolomics have transformed the landscape of infectious and non-infectious diseases allowing development of new diagnostic measures as well as therapeutics. In combination with active contribution from Electronic, Mechanical, Materials engineering, implantable sensor and support devices that are bio-compatible have significantly contributed to extending the healthy lifespan of the human race.
Objective of the Program
To produce professionals with deep knowledge and innovative analytical and Bioengineering research skills to handle problems in a. variety of domains including healthcare, Energy & Environment, and Food & Agriculture. The approaches are largely data driven by OMICS, Imaging for diagnostics& Therapeutics, Systems & Computational Biology, Environment, food & Agriculture Biotechnology.
Output of the programe are expected to have the skill set to be absorbed in Biomedical & Biotechnology industries, Pharmaceutical companies, Research labs and Academic institutions at the global level
Expected Graduate Attributes (M.Tech)
Students will be sensitized and prepared to develop next generation Technologies catering to healthcare, energy, environment, and agriculture
Students will gain extensive hands on experiences by the virtue of advanced lab courses and projects
Students will be trained for development of products and/or processes having commercial applicability and/or high impact research communications in the form of patents/publications.
Ability to innovate and contribute towards next generation technology development
High quality technical communication skills
Appreciation and adherence to norms of professional ethics
Ability to plan and manage technical projects
Strong Understanding of fundamentals of Cell and Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Human Physiology, Plant Pathology, Systems Biology, Computational Biology, genetic and metabolic engineering, Physics and design of instrumentation used in multiomics, Imaging, and sensors &control
Basic understanding of Image acquisition, processing, and Interpretation
Basic understanding of data collection through OMICS approach, pre-processing, computational analysis, statistical analysis, database generation, and Algorithm development.
Skill set to develop diagnosis, therapeutics, Biofuel technologies, Bioremediation, crop protection, and food preservation using Big Data.
Advanced analytical and technological skills acquired through deeper understanding of Imaging/sensor/materials technologies through Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Materials engineering, Biomechanics, Biophysics, Computer engineering and other engineering sciences.
Demonstrate advanced skills to communicate scientific ideas and /or application systems.
Acquire basic project management skills
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM