School of  Liberal Arts    IIT JodhpurINSIGHTS- NEWSLETTER VOL 3 ISSUE 2 MAY 2025        CONTENTSMESSAGE FROM THE HEADEVENTSTEAM SOLASOLA STORIES CONTACT US ___________________________________________________       EDITORIAL TEAM: SREEDEVI D, SUNIL KUMAR LOHAR, PRADARSHIKA BISWAS            PHOTO COURTESY: STUDENTS, SOLA
Message from the Head1Dear Friends,Greetings!I welcome you to the sixth edition of SoLA’s Newsletter, which covers variousdimensions of the School’s growth including teaching, research, and national andinternational collaboration with academia and industry. This semester Dr. Bhaskar Kumar Kakati, Dr. Dinesh Mohan Joshi, Dr. Soni, and Dr.Souryabrata Mohapatra joined  the School as faculty.  I welcome them and wish thema fruitful and prosperous career ahead. In the middle of the semester, our third Winter School titled “InterdisciplinaryPathways in Computational Social Science: Economics, Sociology and Policy” washeld  and eminent speakers and experts from the field, including District Collector andDistrict Magistrate Jodhpur, joined  the sessions. SoLA also hosted  a couple of talks   from diverse fields.  This time we also have storiesfrom the field by our doctoral scholars. This is a new section where they share theirexperiences from the field, research journeys and their outreach activities. We alsohad a visit by the Honourable Director, IIT Jodhpur and a team, where our doctoralscholars presented their research work and received valuable feedback. I wish everyone a joyful and relaxed summer break.Kind regards,Alok Ranjan
EventsWinter SchoolThe third edition of MSc CSS Winter School, titled “Interdisciplinary Pathways inComputational Social Science: Economics, Sociology and Policy” was held on 27February and 1 March 2025 at SoLA. Eminent speakers and experts from the field, DrManohar Kumar, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIIT Delhi, Dr. C.Oswald, Department of Computer Science, NIT Tiruchirapalli and Shri GauravAgarwal, District Collector and District Magistrate ,Jodhpur led the sessions. 22
This year’s first talk was delivered by Dr. Dipa Donde, Research Associate at Mehrangarh Fort Trust, Jodhpur, on  “Thinking and Talking Animals in Indic Narratives: Text and Images from the Panchatantra,Ramcharitmanas and  Dhola Maru by artists of Marwar inthe  18th and 19th Century” in  January 2025.Book TalkSoLA Seminar Series Prof. P.C. Thoudam introduced TheStructure of Manipuri (Meiteiron)Language (2023), offering fresh insightsinto the language. The talk highlighteddistinctive features of Meiteiron that setit apart from other Tibeto-Burmanlanguages.We hosted a virtual book talk by Dr. AchyutChetan on his book Founding Mothers of theIndian Republic: Gender Politics of theFraming of the Constitution (2022).Dr. Achyut discussed the crucial role ofwomen in shaping the Indian Constitutionand the gender politics involved in itsframing.323
42Dr. Anand Brudhandelivered an insightfultalk on IndianAesthetics,Iconography, andMuseums in April atSoLA. School of Liberal Arts and the School of Designhosted a talk and demo by Björn Lengers(CyberRäuber) in March 2025, exploring XR, AI,and digital performing arts.The session highlighted innovative tech instorytelling, including XR, AR, 360° film, and real-time AI interfaces.4
425Research Scholars’ interaction with the  Director
Journal ClubDr.Alok Ranjan talked on National Health Accounts Estimates for India, 2021-22 inthe journal club meeting of  December 2024. Journal Club session in January 2025 was led by Dr. Saurabh Maheshwari with hispaper "What Makes People Help More in the Presence of Others? A CounterintuitiveHelping Behavior".The journal club meeting in April was led by research scholar Ms. PradarshikaBiswas on "Lesser Lives: Working class Women in the Fiction of Post-liberalisationIndia".526
New Members of Team SoLABhaskar Kumar Kakati  joined the School of Liberal Arts inMarch 2025. He holds a Ph.D. in Social Sciences from  TataInstitute of Social Sciences, along with a Masters degree inAncient History and another in Rural Development. His areas ofresearch are rural development, migration, livelihood andappropriate technology and sustainability. An accomplishedcreative writer,  Kakati has contributed over hundred poems andstories in Assamese and has authored two books on Assamesetheatre. He is actively involved in theatre as an actor anddirector. In recognition of his work, he was felicitated by theAsam Sahitya Sabha in 2020 and he received the Social ServiceAward from Dispur Press Club (2024) for his contributions torural development.Dinesh Mohan Joshi joined the School of Liberal Arts, as anAssistant Professor in February 2025. He holds a Ph.D. in IndianMathematics and Astronomy from the Department ofHumanities and Social Sciences, IIT Bombay, and brings over adecade of dedicated research experience in the domain of IndianKnowledge Systems (IKS). With recognized expertise inmanuscript reading, decoding, interpretation, and criticalanalysis, he brings profound scholarly insight into ancientIndian scientific traditions, particularly in the areas ofastronomy, mathematics, and astrology.627
Souryabrata Mohapatra  joined  the School of Liberal Arts, IITJodhpur, as an Economics faculty in mid-March 2025. Prior tothat, he served as a research faculty at NCAER in New Delhi.His applied studies explore the intersections of environmentaland development economics and his areas of Interest areEconomics of climate change, sustainable agriculture, greentransitions, equitable migration, and rural resilience.Has alongstanding interest in pencil sketching and enjoys readingmanga in leisure. Cooking is another passion that grewduring hostel life and still continues—experimenting with newvegetarian recipes.Soni joined the School of Liberal Arts , IIT Jodhpur in April 2025.Prior to this, she was an Assistant Professor at GITAM School ofHumanities and Social Sciences. She has held a postdoctoralposition at IIT Bombay and earned her Ph.D. in History from ETHZurich. Her areas of research are childhood, youth and genderstudies; history of education; modernity; postcolonial & decolonialhistory. Dr. Soni is currently completing her first book, ‘Saving’ theOrphans: Historicizing ‘Child Protection’ in Colonial North India,1830–1943, under contract with Palgrave Macmillan (UK). When notlost in archives, Soni finds joy in the company of indie dogs. Sheunwinds with badminton, gardening, and calls museum-hoppingher favorite cardio.728
SoLA Stories Snippets from the field (This is a new section where research scholars from SoLA share their experiences from the field, researchjourneys and their outreach activities. This time we have two stories-  from Nisha Palliwal and Sanskriti)Nisha Palliwal  (Nisha Palliwal is interested in folk culture, traditional ecological knowledge systems and communitypractices. Her  research area is at the intersection of energy humanities, political ecology and criticalinfrastructure studies)(Photos shared by the scholar from her field visit)829
9210On my first trip to Jaisalmer as a tourist, I was captivated by the larger-than-life windmills that dominatedthe landscape and stood as the epitome of national development and sustainability in the middle of thedesert. However, while staying at a homestay 25 km away from the city while working with the Langa andManganiyar musicians in Jaisalmer, I first discovered the complexities of green energy transition inRajasthan.Narrating the emergence of the wind project in the area, my host informed me about the time when theprojects were beginning in the outskirts of Jaisalmer city under the pretence of providing electricity to thenearby villages. Despite protests from the villagers who feared these plants would take over their land, theconstruction began claiming that the plants would be removed after a few years. The community triedeverything in their power to stop the construction, saying they could do without electricity but not theland which supported their entire survival. The village protesters failed to stop the construction and incompensation for their loss, a few residents were offered positions as watchmen or guards. In a fewmonths, they were dismissed. What struck me the most was not a direct response but rather theremarkable climate resilience and the deep ethnographic knowledge embedded not only in local practicesbut also within the landscape that can be traced through the root-like patterns of seasonal rivers thatshape the terrain.During my field study in August 2024, I witnessed a river form before my eyes, the water emerged from theterrain and coursed through the landscape and within minutes the entire riverbed was filled with water. Inthe absence of perennial rivers, the local communities have found ways to harness and direct the scarcerainfall for sustainable use showcasing an ecological balance. This challenges the dominant perception ofthe Thar Desert as a ‘wasteland,’ a term that fails to acknowledge the ecological complexity and adaptivestrategies that sustain life in arid regions. It compels us to reconsider how we conceptualize deserts and toquestion the tendency to apply a uniform framework to understand them. The assumption that alldeserts are barren, lifeless, or unproductive oversimplifies their ecological and cultural diversity.
Sanskriti (Sanskriti’s research looks at the media infrastructures and habits of borderland areas by deployingmedia ethnography)Image 1 - A red carpet screening of Khomlang Laman (2024) at the MSFDS Auditorium(Photos shared by the scholar from her field visit) My work aims to use ‘border’ as a method to study the media infrastructures and habits of borderlandareas by deploying media ethnography. The work examines the complex media environments inborderland regions, focusing on phenomena such as Korean films in Manipur, Mizo-dubbed Koreandramas in Mizoram, Japanese anime in Nagaland, and heavy metal and gospel music in Meghalaya.I have attempted to develop a multi-modal format of media ethnography while documenting myfieldwork journey through images, videographies, interviews, memorabilia, and objects of ‘affect.’ Theseobjects hold a symbolic value that remains pertinent in tracing the ethnographer’s rhythm around thefield site(s) during mundane and staggering moments of delay, incertitude, and failure. Contrary towhat was anticipated, the situation on my primary field site (Manipur) was faced with challengescompelling me to adapt and reframe my arguments. As a result, I sought field aids, field dupes, andalternative field settings to support my research.The ground realities of my fieldwork were ratherstrenuous, and accessing knowledge systems based on indigenous histories and experiences demandeda decolonial methodological approach of closely interrogating moments of failed interviews, rupture,and interruptions.10211
Experiencing moments of camaraderie with local stakeholders of knowledge reconstituted the ideas ofwhat defines a field and how one must traverse these contested spaces of belonging. My positionality asan ethnographer was significantly shaped by the connections I developed through lasting relationshipsand a strong sense of kinship in the area, as I resided there during my master's degree at the height of thepandemic. The interlocutors who agreed to share their stories with me did so in a variety of settings—sometimes in front of a camera, at other times beneath the warmth of their kitchen hearths, within theconfines of their offices, or even amidst a family gathering such as Utsav[1]. I found myself sharingpersonal anecdotes, fostering a sense of connection that enriched our dialogues on how identities areshaped and contested in the ongoing struggle between state, quasi-state, and separatist power entities.Regardless of the location, these conversations revealed intimate glimpses into their lives, even as theyresponded to structured questions about media infrastructures and embodied fan experiences.Image 2- A female vendor who offered me a cup of tea while I was photographing the wet markets inthe back lanes of Razhu Bus Point of Kohima  1 In Hindu families, particularly among Meetei Vaisnav families in Manipur, an act of charity is observed in the form of offering a feast to Brahmans,Vaisnavas, and elderly individuals which is primarily carried out during the observance of the death anniversaries of parents and elders.11212
12213 ContactSchool of Liberal ArtsIndian Institute of Technology JodhpurNH62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037, Rajasthan, IndiaWebsite: https://sola.iitj.ac.in.Phone: (0291) 280 1402Email: office_sola@iitj.ac.in