RuTAG IIT Delhi News
Prof. R. R. Gaur Memorial Issue
Prof. R. R. Gaur Memorial Issue
Vol. 9, No. 1, January 2021
Writing this column this time is so difficult for me as
we  lost  our  Best  colleague  friend  and  the  Mentor  of
RuTAG IIT Delhi, Prof. R. R. Gaur, on  Dec. 6, 2020
even though he was best of his health when we met him
last  during  our  monthly  review  meeting  on  Nov.  11,
2020. In fact, when we were looking for his article for
the Chairman’s Column, we came to know that he was
not well. But we never thought that we will not get his
article, rather an article about him will be written. That’s
what we are forced to accept! I am sure his memories
will always be with us and messages will be our guiding
principle.  As  one  of  our  colleagues  who  is  also
associated with a RuTAG project, Prof. S.P. Singh, said
that we must learn from his style of living. He was ever
active,  and  took  voluntary  retirement  to  fulfil  his
objectives  to  contribute  to  the  society,  be  it  Value
Education or Rural Technology.
Sharing  few  facts:  1)  We  are  also  providing
Multilingual articles in this issue, which are translations
of selected articles of July 2020 issue; 2) One round of
online internships by NIT Durgapur students ended in
Nov., and the 2nd round started with those who wanted
to  continue  further.  Several  students  and  faculty  of
CEMK Kolaghat also joined the effort; 3) RuTAG IITD
club  members  now  joining  the  monthly  sessions  with
NIT and CEMK. I hope all such activities fructify with
the blessings of Prof. Gaur!
Prof. Subir Kumar Saha
A Tribute to Prof R. R. Gaur
The  RuTAG  family  mourns  the  sudden  and
untimely  demise  of  Prof.  Rishi  Raj  Gaur,  our
beloved  Chairman  of  Core  Group.  We  pray
together for peace for the departed soul and solace
to the bereaved family.
Prof.  Rishi  Raj  Gaur  had  a  continuous  and  energetic
association with IIT Delhi for a period exceeding five decades.  He
joined  IIT  Delhi  in  Mechanical  Engineering  Department  in  1967
and opted for voluntary retirement from formal service in 2009.  He
continued to associate himself with what was  closest to his heart
ever since: value education in engineering and rural technology and
industrialization.    NRCVEE  and  RuTAG  were  part  of  his  breath
until the very end.
During his vast tenure of association, he pioneered several
activities at IIT Delhi, along with his closest friend, Prof. P.L. Dhar:
boldly telling the faculty fraternity that our research is futile unless
we help it reach the people of the country, especially its villages,
and  emphasizing  the  complementarity  of  skills  and  values.
Together, they started and conducted a course named Science and
Humanism  in  early  80s,  which  was  taught  every  semester  until
2007, instilling the thought process amongst students that societal
progress starts with inner development of its individuals. Chaired
the Yoga club and the Holistic Health Committee, promoting the
importance of simple living habits and traditional health care diet
and  practices.    Led  the  technology  mission  projects  in  Internal
Combustion  Engines,  delivering
technological developments in the area that IIT Delhi could offer.
Co-founded the National Resource Centre for Value Education in Engineering in 2001 and designed its structure and role in the
Institute and nation at large. Was at the forefront of restructuring of the Jamnalal Bajaj Central Research Institute at Wardha into
the vibrant Mahatma Gandhi Institute for Rural Industrialization, defining its role, structure and function and showing how it
should operate in order to be effective in its role as a nodal centre for rural industrialization. Developed curriculum and resource
material  for  value  education  programs  in  several  technical  universities  and  the  AICTE  and  was  facilitated  the  training  of
thousands of technical teachers to conduct courses in value education.
Prof Gaur was associated with RuTAG chapter of IIT Delhi as the Chairman of the core group ever since it started in
2009. Apart from chairing the core group meetings, he was also  very particular about taking stock of  all the projects under
RuTAG once every month. All those of us who have been associated with RuTAG and have attended the monthly and the core
group meetings know the level of his involvement in understanding the details of every project, closely monitoring the progress,
and giving valuable suggestions and guidance to take the work forward in the desirable direction. He had the insight to ask the
appropriate questions irrespective of what the project was about and was always visualizing the practical situation while gauging
whether the project was moving in the right direction. As the Honorary Chairman, he also penned down his thoughts for the
newsletter starting from the first issue in January 2013.
Continued to Page 2
1 | R uTAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
In continuation of Page 1
His  valuable  words  of  wisdom,  which  reflected  his  clarity  of  thought  and  vision  regarding  rural  development  and
technology, were an enriching addition to every issue of the newsletter. He was very keen to see RuTAG activities become a part
of the mainstream activities at institutes like IITs.
After the Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) was started, he envisaged RuTAG units in various IITs to develop into the technical
resource units of UBA and play an important role in the efforts towards “sustainable indigenous development of rural India, which
still remains a long-time expectation”.
He also put in special efforts to highlight the importance of a systematic process of Design Engineering involving close
interaction with the prospective user as the right approach to the “Creative Problem Solving” for addressing technological issues
in rural India, through a two-part article for the newsletter. He even suggested that the RuTAG working groups be oriented towards
this approach through workshops so as to enhance the quality of the projects.
Always keen to educate the RuTAG team in the fundamental concepts of sustainable development, in one of his articles,
he enumerated various characteristics of appropriate technologies. Realizing that sustainability aspect is only getting a lip service
in  most  arenas  of  technology  development,  he  repeatedly  emphasized  the  need  to  keep  this  aspect  central  to  all  technology
development and even more so in the development of technology for rural India. In fact, he very strongly felt that development can
be sustainable only if it focusses on rural India with special emphasis on decentralized and eco-friendly rural industrialization. In
his last message in the newsletter, he suggested “that all the RuTAG centres should join hands” in this endeavor.
As one reads his writings in RuTAG newsletters conveying his ideas in simple and clear language, one almost feels that
he is in front of us talking to all of us in his majestic yet compassionate voice meticulously reviewing every project, sharing his
insights, encouraging everyone. On one hand, one feels that this void cannot be filled but on the other, a thought arises that he has
already given us adequate direction and ideas to move forward. It is now up to us to work towards his vision with greater zeal.
As an individual, he was a walking University: he would integrate all what he finds good in various schools of technology
as well as spirituality and incorporate it in his own life and practice.  He was a senior practitioner of the Vipassana Meditation
technique; he was a senior member of the Jeevan Vidya family; he attended and internalized several retreats, including those of
Tej Gyan Foundation, Divine Light Mission, Sri Ramachandra Mission, etc., and would discuss on amalgamating what he found
good in each.  The Saturday discussions on teachings of the Buddha were primarily his initiative. His insightful discussions along
with Prof P.L. Dhar were an inspiration to several people at IIT Delhi as well as outside.  Those who knew him personally would
admit that he deeply touched the lives of so many around him particularly those who were in need by going out of his way to help
them. He was indeed a source of positive energy and all those who came in contact with him could feel that distinctly.
He leaves behind a void difficult to fill, but a path clearly laid out for us to follow.
Prof. Sangeeta Kohli, Co-coordinator, RuTAG IIT Delhi
RuTAG – EPICS Purdue online interactive sessions
Continuing our association with EPICS of Purdue Univ. in the USA, RuTAG IITD has
extended its ongoing WeLD-R (We Learn through Discussions for RuTAG) sessions
to include the students of EPICS. In a plan to host the joint session in every alternate
month,  the  first two  sessions  were held  on  Sep 18  and  Nov.  20,  2020  on  Microsoft
Teams. In these sessions, presentations [Figures 1 (a) and (b)] were made from both
RuTAG IITD and EPICS groups regarding the projects they are working on. The EPICS
India team are currently working on three India-centric projects – i. Mobile Science
Labs (In collaboration with IIT Tirupati); ii. Bullock Driven Tractor (RuTAG IITD);
and iii. Stone Dust Inhalation (RuTAG IITD). Prof. Saha mentioned that such sessions
give exposure to the students of both countries to solve problems faced by the society.
In the last session, Prof. William Oakes, who is the director of EPICS, said that this
initiative helps in bringing together staff and students who work towards the betterment
of  the  society.  He  also  mentioned  that  in  the  upcoming  sessions,  he  would  like  to
include other teams from EPICS Purdue. The next session is planned in Feb.’21.
Figures 1(a) and (b): Interactive
session with EPICS
2 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
Mr. Suraj Bhat, Ph.D. Scholar, RuTAG IIT Delhi
Figure 2: Mound Based Sub
Surface Porous Vessel
(SSPV) with hybridized
Figure 3(a): Components of tele-
operated face mask
Figure 3(b) Left: Mask at closed
position; Right: Mask at open
Figure 4(a): Water reservoir
1. Mound Based Sub-Surface Irrigation, Rajasthan
PI - Dr. Anand Plappally, Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Collaborating NGO - Rupayan Sansthan, Jodhpur, Rajasthan
Farmers with very small pieces of land or homestead kitchen gardens can enable large
horticulture  production  in  small  areas  making  use  of  enlarged  root  zone  volumes.
Inverted frustum shaped mounds with large bases can be equipped with water-filled
frustum shaped porous irrigation vessels with surrounding compost patches (Figure 2).
These porous clay ceramic vessels are manufactured by local potters in Jodhpur. Here,
the water will leach through the soils and enable large volumes to  be  irrigated in  a
customized manner. It also serves the purpose of desalting contaminated soils by using
water oozing out of the vessels to leach out contaminants from the soil. The efficacy
of the present 9L porous vessel is in desalting saline or sodic loamy soils of a size of
about 12 cm thick hollow volumetric frustum in 3 hours. On the other hand, for non-
fertile soils, oozing water from the porous vessel may wet the surrounding compost
patch and help improve fertility and carbon content within the soils. The mounds can
be geometrically modified by the farmer such that maximum root zone can be utilized
and  thus  effectively  using  the  water  leaching  from  the  porous  vessel.  Small  1m
diameter frustum mounds of 30-45 cm height could be adequate to provide at least 15-
18 kg/month of horticulture and tuberous produce. Multiple crops such as vegetables
and tubers (such as cassava, sweet potato, and many more) could be grown within the
same  mound  helping  homestead  farms  to  produce,  keeping  in  mind  nutritional
balances  for  households  or  of  a  family.  Thus,  it  also  provides  one  of  the  cheapest
technological solutions to fight malnutrition irrespective of soil fertility issues. Mound
based SSPV has been used to perform organic agriculture in the premises of the Arna
Jharna Desert Museum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, and develop vegetable kitchen gardens
in  hostels  under  Social  Justice  and  Empowerment  Department,  Jodhpur  Block,
2. Device for Teleoperation of Face Mask
PI - Dr. Vinay Gupta, Professor, IEC College of Engineering and Technology, Greater
Collaborating NGO - None
In  the  current  COVID-19  situation,  the  face  mask  is  playing  an  important  role  in
safeguarding oneself from the COVID-19 virus. However, keeping the mask on the
face continuously for hours is difficult. Due to this difficulty, people like to put off
their masks whenever they find it safe and put it on again when required. To take off
and put on the mask, one has to touch it. Touching, while the mask on the face, is not
being considered safe due to the chance of transfer of the virus from hand to mask or
vice versa. To overcome this problem, if an arrangement can be made to tele-operate
the mask, it may come out to be useful.
There are various types of masks available in the market. They are available in
various shapes and sizes. Masks are made of very soft material. Some of the masks,
like N-95, are slightly stiff. To tele-operate the mask, some wearable devices may help
on which mask can be mounted. As a preliminary work, a device was conceptualized,
and a prototype of the same is built as a proof of concept. See self-explanatory Figures
3(a), and (b). However, detailed study and analysis are required to develop the device
while keeping aspects such as medical, ergonomics, versatility, cost, etc. To establish
an idea for teleoperation of face mask into a completely developed device. The aspects
based on the medical requirement, ergonomics, versatility to compatible with various
masks, cost, etc., will be considered.
Figure 4(b): Powerhouse
3 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
3. PICO HYDRO BASED COLD STORAGE
PI – Prof. R. P. Saini, Department of Hydro and Renewable Energy, IIT Roorkee
Collaborating NGO - None
In the Himalayan regions, agriculture contributes to the economy significantly. The
vegetables  and  fruits  are  produced  /grown  significantly,  and  a  major  part  of  these
products (varying from 10 to 50 percent) are wasted in different districts of the states
of Himachal and Uttarakhand due to the non-existence of appropriate locally available
cold  storage  facilities.  As  a  result,  the  farmers  are  forced  to  sell  their  fruits  and
vegetables to the local market as soon as possible at lower prices, thereby, affecting
their  livelihood  badly.  Further,  the  Himalayan  regions  and  mountain  areas  of  the
country  are  endowed  with  natural  waterfalls,  streams,  and  rivers  flowing  down  the
hills. These water resources can provide ample opportunities for electricity production.
The  integration  of  micro-hydropower  with  cold  storage  is  considered  economically
viable and feasible for such areas.
To provide sustainable solutions for the preservation of crops in hilly areas, a
low-cost cold storage powered by Pico-hydro plant was designed and developed by
RuTAG, IIT Roorkee to help farmers to create more facilities for long period storage
of perishable crops. Pico-hydro consists of a diversion weir, power channel, fore-bay
tank, and penstock pipe [Figures 4(a), (b), and (c)]. Water from the fore-bay tank is
transferred to the powerhouse through penstock pipe to run hydraulic turbine which
coupled with the alternator to generate 5 kW. A controller is used to control the power
which  is  transmitted  to  the  cold  store.  The  power  requirement  for  running  the  cold
store is only 1.5-2.0 kW, while the surplus power from the Pico hydro plant can be
distributed to the local area for lighting and other purposes. The cold storage is made
of insulating panels and capable of storing about 3000 kg.
4. Modification in Bhilawa Seed Decortication process
PI - Dr.  Vinay  Gupta,  Professor,  Dr.  Mukesh  Kumar  (CO-PI),  IEC  College  of
Engineering and Technology, Greater Noida
Collaborating NGO - None
Semecarpus Anacardium (also known as Bhilawa in Hindi) is a plant whose seeds are
mainly  used  as  medicines.  It  is  also  known  as  Bibba  in  Marathi  and  Agnimukh  in
Sanskrit. The two basic actions can be used to open the shell of a seed (nut). One is
caused by an impact on the seed against a hard object or applying direct mechanical
pressure to crush, cut, or shear through the shell. The stated actions can be performed
manually using knives, hammers, simple presses, etc. Also, the action can be used to
make a machine. A hand press machine for Bhilawa seed decortication was developed
by IIT Bombay.
Two  of  IEC  students  Shekahar  Chauhan  and  Sarthak  Machkoria  visited  the
Pattan village, Betul, MP with Suraj (Research Scholar, RuTAG, IIT Delhi) to gain the
experience of how people decorticate Bhilawa and to know their challenges. To ease
the  decortication  process  and  increase  the  production  level  of  Bhilawa,  two  design
ideas are presented. One is manual [requires manpower [Figure 5(a)] to operate], and
the other is motorized [it operates with the help of motor and toggle mechanism]. This
can also be modified for manual operation. The manual machine uses the manually
operated press principal where the person will apply force with the help of a handle.
The  automatic  machine  adds  up  a  piston-cylinder  arrangement  and  powered  with  a
motor  with  the  help  of  a  toggle  mechanism.  Figure  5(b)  shows  a  CAD  model  of
motorized version of the machine for better understanding.
Figure 4(c): Cold storage unit
Figure 5(a): CAD model of
manual Bhilawa decortication
Figure 5(b): CAD model of
motorized Bhilawa decortication
Figure 6: CAD Model of a
4 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
5. Designing of Vertical Multilayer Vermicomposting Unit for Shri Mata
Vaishno Devi, Katra, Jammu
PI - Prof. S. K. Saha, Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Delhi
Co-PI - Prof. Satyawati Sharma, CRDT, IIT Delhi; Prof. Balbir Singh, Dept. of Mech.
Engg. SMVDU, Kakryal, Katra, J&K; Dr. Kalpana Arora, SESS, New Delhi.
Collaborating NGO - Centre for Technology and Development (CTD), New Delhi
Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine is visited on an average every day by about 40 thousand
pilgrims, and the numbers are growing every year. As the Shrine is located in a quite
steep hilly region, about 15 km walking distance from Katra Town, about 5 to 10% of
the pilgrims use local horses and mules for visiting the Shrine. For transporting all the
material to the lodges existing near Shrine, a caravan of Mules is used. It is a rough
estimate that about 1000 horses and mules are in service in this area.
Mules  not  only  provide  the  ease  of  access  to  pilgrims  but  also  a  livelihood
activity for the people involved in this service. During the field visit to the Shrine Area
in November 2007 for an Environmental, Ecological and Hydrological Basin Study, it
was found that the dung of these animals is causing a problem. As the flat land area is
limited in the hilly areas and the ecology of the area is also very fragile, maintaining
the garbage dump yard sites is limited. A field visit was conducted at the Shrine Board
of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi, Katra, Jammu, to understand the problem. Based on the
field study, a Vertical Multilayer Vermicomposting Unit is proposed. The CAD model
of  the  Vertical  Multilayer  Vermicomposting  Unit  (Figure  6)  and  assembly  drawing
(Engineering Drawing) of the composting unit have been completed, and the fabrication
work is going on. The actual working model after the fabrication will be tested, and
further work will be carried on.
6.  Development  of  a  More  Ergonomic  and  Efficient  Street  Sizing  System  for
Chirala Handloom Cluster
PI - Prof. Samrat Mukhopadhyay, Dept. of Textile Engineering, IIT Delhi
Collaborating NGO - Rastra Chenetha Jana Samakhya (RCJS), Andhra Pradesh
The process of sizing is a very crucial step in weaving. Sizing is done to give temporary
strength to single count cotton yarn to withstand the rigor of weaving while keeping the
characteristics and properties of cotton yarn intact. It directly affects the production rate
and the number of breakages and faults in fabric. Street sizing is one of the two most
common ways to do it, the other being Hank sizing. The operation mainly consists of
coating a long warp sheet from the starch paste by using a handheld spray and heavy
brush. It strengthens the yarn so that it can endure the various forces exerted in weaving
A field visit was conducted at Chirala to understand the problem. Based on the
field study, a modified version of the street sizing system is proposed. At present, the
same is completed, and the fabrication work is going on. A CAD model of the new
drive  mechanism/  Street  sizing  machine  [Figure  7(a)]  has  been  completed  with
engineering drawing, and fabrication is under progress.  Manufacturing of the following
parts of the street sizing machine has been completed, i.e., base structure frame, yarn
wrapping octagonal frame, rubber roller, solution tank, guide roller, etc. [Figure 7(b)],
and rest parts under process.
7. Vertical Dhenki
PI - Prof. P. B. S. Bhadoria, Professor, Agricultural and Food Engineering Department,
Collaborating NGO - None
The machine [Figures 8(a) and (b)] is provided with an iron rod (Pestle) which connects
to the pulley. The process is similar to pestle and Motor but is not hand-operated.
Continued to Page 6
Figure 7(a): CAD Model of a
new Drive Mechanism/ Street
Figure 7(b): Actual Model of the
new Drive Mechanism/ Street
Figures 8(a) and (b): Vertical
5 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
In continuation of Page 5
Figure 9: Rice after pounding by
Vertical Dhenki machine
Figure 10(a): Schematic of
Motor-powered Mini weeder
Figure 10(b): Motor-powered
Mini weeder at Kenthia
The length of the pestle is such that it touches the paddy in the motor. Due to
the  force  of  the  weight  upon  the  rice  in  the  pods,  the  rice  and  golden-brown  husk
separate. Due to the force of the pestle (driven by the motor) acting upon the paddy,
the husk and the rice separates. It gives around 74.6% productivity, Coefficient of de-
hulling is 0.95, Coefficient of wholeness 0.92, Hulling capacity is 4.5 Kg/hr, hulling
efficiency is 91%, and broken rice is 6.5%. In one hour, this machine gives around 4.5
kg  of  rice  (Figure  9).  The  machine  is  simple  and  cost-effective.  It  removes  the
drawbacks of hand-pounding and foot-pounding. No technical knowledge is required
to drive the machine. The losses are minimum in this machine. It removes the problem
of  gender  sensitivity  too.  The  machine  results  in  high  productivity.  Several  Rice
products like Rice Flour can also be made using this machine.
8. Power Mini Weeder
PI - Prof.  P.  B.  S.  Bhadoria,  Professor,  Agricultural  and  Food  Engineering
Department, IIT Kharagpur
Collaborating NGO - None
Lack of mechanization or automation is one of the significant roadblocks to improving
the productivity of agriculture. One of the primary reasons for the lack of agricultural
productivity is weeds. The losses caused by weeds exceed the losses caused by any
other category of agricultural pests. An important one is that they interfere with food
and fiber production in agriculture, wherein they must be controlled in order to prevent
lost or diminished crop yields. The simplest and most popular management method is
manual weed control, where labourers pull weeds out of the soil using different types
of hand tools like khurpi, wheel hoe, hand hoe, etc.
The  Power  Mini  Weeder,  which  solely  intended  to  be  used  for  weeding
operations only. The Power Mini Weeder is generally easy to operate and does not
require  any  type  of  prior  training  for  safe  operation.  The  Power  Mini  Weeder  is
powered  by  an  1HP  induction  AC  motor.  A  schematic  of  the  Motor-powered  mini
weeder is shown in Figure 10(a). The most important part is the power by a motor with
a chain-sprocket mechanism used solely for rotating the blades located at the front of
the Power Mini Weeder. The Power Mini Weeder usually compromise of 1 HP AC
induction motor, frame, support wheels, and blades. The Power Mini Weeder is a self-
propelled walk-behind type with which most of the Indian farmers are habituated. The
parts and components were strong enough to  work with  great  efficiency.Weeds are
unwanted plants. They grow in the fields where they compete with crops for water,
soil nutrients, light, and space and thus reduce crop yields. With this equipment [Figure
10(b)], a person can cover up to one bigha per hour, even in hard soils.
Establishment of a system dynamics model for soil moisture and nutrient management focusing
on rice-wheat cropping system in rural India
The research work theme encompasses mainly the need for an integrated modelling approach to understand the
dynamic interactions and cause and effect of socio-economic, biophysical, environmental, and political factors of the
rice-wheat cropping system (RWCS) in India. The RWCS serves as a cornerstone of India's food security and covers an
area of about 10 million hectares in India, mostly in the Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP). Currently, sustainability and food
security in the rice-wheat growing states in the IGP is at risk due to fragmented land, stagnation of crop yield, shortage
of labour, soil degradation, the decline in the underground water table, climate change, environmental pollution, and
lack  of  appropriate  technology  and  policy  interventions.  Though  previous  researchers  have  developed  many  crop
simulation models for various crops, a few such models have been utilized for the RWCS. However, those models could
not address the sustainability gaps of the RWCS; a modelling approach to consider all the factors of the RWCS becomes
a need of the hour. To understand the complex nature of the RWCS, interaction among its various aspects, and its impact
on the system's sustainable development, system dynamics modelling has been employed in the present study.
Dr. Susha Lekshmi S. U., SERB-NPDF, RuTAG IIT Delhi
6 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
Rural Technology Action Group and Delivery of its Technologies
Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser (PSA) to GOI realized the need for intervention in the Rural sector (Farm and
Non-farm Sectors). Therefore, the Rural Technology Action Groups (RuTAG) has been conceived as a mechanism to
provide a higher level of Science and Technology (S&T) intervention and support through premier Institutions to the
marginalized rural population. These interventions, which are essentially demand-driven, helps in bridging technology
gaps, technology up-gradation, technology training, and demonstration or through any other innovative methods with
the help of S&T NGOs at grassroots. The objective of the RuTAG is to synergize and catalyse the rural development
by intervention, development, and delivery of appropriate technologies.
RuTAG and Innovative Product Delivery
Today, RuTAG is present in seven IITs situated in Delhi (IIT, Delhi), Uttarakhand (IIT, Roorkee), Tamil Nadu (IIT,
Madras), North East (IIT, Guwahati), West Bengal (IIT, Kharagpur), Uttar Pradesh (IIT Kanpur) and Mumbai (IIT,
Bombay). Currently, 52 different field-tested demand-driven deployable technologies have been developed by various
RuTAG centres at seven IITs. These demand-driven technologies cater various sectors like assistive technologies, rural
agriculture, draught animal power, rural energy, rural environment/water, rural handicrafts, and rural textile With an
Figure 12(a): BULLOCK
DRIVEN TRACTOR (B. D. T.)
Figure 12(b): TREADLE
Figure 11: A map of India showing technologies disseminated by
RuTAG IIT Delhi
Figure 12(c): SHEEP
Figure 12(d): TULSI
objective to transfer the developed technologies, a facility has been created by RuTAG IIT Delhi in collaboration with
Foundation  for  Innovation  and  Technology  Transfer  (FITT)  at  IIT  Delhi  under  the  scheme  of  “Innovative  Product
Delivery”. Field-tested technologies are being sold directly to the hands of the users on a payment basis through this
scheme. A number of technologies disseminated by RuTAG IIT Delhi are shown in Figures 11, 12 (a), (b), (c), and (d).
Tawa Making Cluster visit at Village Poonchhari, Bharatpur, Rajasthan
RuTAG IIT Delhi team visited Tawa making cluster at Poonchhari village, Bharatpur, Rajasthan, between November
17-21, 2020 to gather data on the Tawa firing process. The field visit was arranged by Lupin Foundation, an NGO in
Bharatpur,  Rajasthan.  In  Poonchahari  village,  around  120  potters  from  40  families  earn  their  livelihood  by  making
earthen Tawa [Figure 13(a)]. The team had discussions with the potters to understand the entire process of Tawa making.
The visit was mainly oriented to record the temperature profile of the firing process using Type-K thermocouples. Clay,
locally called Chikni Mitti, and red stone powder, locally called Bajri, are the materials used for making Tawa. First,
clay is poured into a pit containing water and is then allowed to soak. This wet clay is mixed next with red stone powder
in a 1:1 ratio.
Continued to Page 8
7 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
In continuation of Page 7
The shape of Tawa is molded manually, and then it is allowed to dry under the Sun.
Mustard husk (Turi) and dung cakes (Kanda/Uple) are the fuel used for firing. The firing arrangement [Figures 13(b),
and (c)] contains eight layers. The first layer just above the ground is mustard husk (Turi) followed by dung cakes,
mustard husk, Tawas, dung cakes, mustard husk, broken wares, and ash. The firing process starts by putting some live
coal inside a pot, which is placed in the center of the Tawa stack. Hence, the firing initiates from the center. The firing
process completes in 2 to 3 days. After the firing, the Tawas are shortlisted on the basis of colour and sound it makes
while hitting it with a finger. The Tawas are sold to the wholesaler at Rs. 3 to 5 per piece, and finally, the end-user
buys a Tawa at Rs. 10. Mostly, the Tawas are sold in various places of Rajasthan. The visit was successful in providing
some important data for the analysis of the current  process. The data and samples collected from  the field will  be
analysed to formulate problems associated with Tawa making process, and an affordable solution will be provided to
the potters of Poonchari village.
Mr. Yashwant Prasad, Project Associate, RuTAG IIT Delhi
Figure 13(a): Tawa
Figure 13(b): Stacking of Tawa
Figure 13(c): Firing of Tawas
Field Trial of Sheep Hair Shearing Machine Developed by IIT Delhi at CSBF, Hisar, Haryana
RuTAG  IIT  Delhi  team  comprising,  Mr.  Ashish  (Jr.  Project  Assistant  tech.),  Mr.  Davinder  Pal  Singh  (Project
Associate),  and  Mr.  Mangal  Sharma  (Jr.  Project  Attendant),  along  with  Mr.  Bittu  Kumar  from  associated  partner
company  Glimonn  Research  for  manufacturing  of  Sheep  Shearing  Device,  visited  Central  Sheep  Breeding  Farm
(CSBF),  Hisar,  Haryana  [Figures  14(a),  (b),  and  (c)]  during  September  29-30,  2020  for  the  demonstration  of  the
complete  set  of sheep  shearing  device  along  with  ten-teeth  comb  and  three-teeth  cutter  manufactured  by  different
vendors.  These  trials  were  conducted  for  two  days  in  the  presence  of  the  committee  assigned  by  Central  Wool
Development Board (CWDB), Jodhpur, Rajasthan, for the demonstration of the newly developed shearing machine by
IIT Delhi at CSBF Hisar.
Dr. Runtu Gogoi (Assistant Commissioner, CSBF) along with Mr. Ramesh Bundela (Incharge, WTC, Bikaner),
and Mr.  Kamlakar Shankar Gurao  (Technical  Officer, CSWRI, ARC, Bikaner)  welcomed  the RuTAG team at the
shearing section where four shearers along with helping staff were present. Rambouillet sheep breed was present for
shearing.  Mr.  Jagdish  Chander  and  Mr.  Nathu  Ram  (Shearers)  from  CSBF  was  assigned  to  use  the  RuTAG  IITD
device. The handpiece, along with the motor and flexible shaft, worked very well. The assigned shearers appreciated
the overall performance of the IITD device.
Figures 14: (a)Mr. Jagdish shearing the sheep using IIT Delhi’s device; (b) RuTAG team with CSBF officials; (c) Shearing in
8 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
The combs and cutters of IITD team worked well. The team decided to regrind the blades with CSBF grinder. After
grinding, the combs and cutters worked well  but some blades  were lacking sharpening because of almost depleted
emery paper. A need for slight improvement in the tension nut of the handpiece was observed. The shearers wanted to
test the IITD handpiece with the imported motor, and vice-versa. Therefore, the IITD team tested the device in various
combinations to compare with the imported device. After completion of shearing, the RuTAG team left for Delhi.
On the second day, the RuTAG team began to set up and oiling of the device. CSBF officials bring a flock of
20 sheep for the shearing by IITD device. The team decided to regrind the blades properly. Mr. Jagdish and Mr. Balraj
(Shearers) ground the combs and cutters of IITD teams before shearing. Soon after, the shearing started with a full pace
[Figures 14 (a) and (c)]. The team tested another handpiece with the improved tension nut. The handpiece worked very
well with the enhanced tension nut, but soon it started to heat up from the back end. Hence, the team decided to use the
previous handpiece. Handpiece #1 worked endearingly well throughout the day. The combs and cutters also worked
very well after the grinding. Till noon, a full flock of 20 sheep were sheared by IITD’s device. The CSBF Officials, as
well as the shearers and shepherds, witnessed the performance of the device. At the end of the day, the RuTAG team
thanked everyone present during shearing. RuTAG team went to meet Dr. A. K. Malhotra (Director, CSBF) to thank
them for every arrangement that CSBF has made for making this a successful trial.
Mr. Ashish Dahiya, Jr. Project Assistant (Tech.), RuTAG IIT Delhi
A Multilingual Glance at our Recent Newsletter
For original articles in English of RuTAG newsletter Vol 8, No. 2, kindly visit the link:
Figure 15(a): Group photo of participants of RuTAG   Figures 15(b). Mr. Laxman demonstrating the new Tulsi Mala Making
Device, (c). New Tulsi Mala Making Device given to Mr. Dharmendra
regional workshop held at Mathura
Continued to page 10
9 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .9/1
In continuation of Page 9
In continuation of Page 9
Prof. M. R. Ravi, Co-coordinator, RuTAG IIT Delhi
Prof. M. R. Ravi, Co-coordinator, RuTAG IIT Delhi(cid:3)
Continued to Page 11
Continued to Page 11
10  | R uTAG, Newsl ette r,  Vol.9/1
In continuation of Page 10
In continuation of Page 10
Continued to Page 12
Continued to Page 12
11  | R uTAG, Newsl ette r,  Vol.9/1
In continuation of Page 11
(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)(cid:3)वर्ा(cid:3)(cid:173)(cid:171)(cid:171)(cid:174)(cid:167)(cid:171)(cid:175)(cid:3)में(cid:3)भारत(cid:3)सरकार(cid:3)के (cid:3)प्रधान(cid:3)वैज्ञावनक(cid:3)सिाहकार(cid:3)(cid:135)(cid:18)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:66)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:71)(cid:68)(cid:3)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:4)(cid:3)(cid:83)(cid:78)(cid:3)(cid:10)(cid:78)(cid:12)(cid:136)(cid:3)के (cid:3)कायाािय(cid:3)द्वारा(cid:3)माोंि(cid:3)पर(cid:3)आधाररत(cid:3)प्रौद्यरविकी(cid:3)की(cid:3)पहचान(cid:126)(cid:3)
ववकास(cid:3) और(cid:3) प्रसार(cid:3) के (cid:3) विए(cid:3) रूरि(cid:3) टेक्निजी(cid:3) एक्शन(cid:3) ग्रुप(cid:3) (cid:135)रूटाि(cid:136)(cid:3) (cid:135)(cid:21)(cid:84)(cid:81)(cid:64)(cid:75)(cid:3) (cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:66)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:78)(cid:75)(cid:78)(cid:70)(cid:88)(cid:3) (cid:64)(cid:66)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:78)(cid:77)(cid:3) (cid:70)(cid:81)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:136)(cid:3) का(cid:3) आरों भ(cid:3) वकया(cid:3) िया(cid:3) था।ग्रामीण(cid:3) (cid:3)क्षेत्रों(cid:3) की(cid:3)
इन(cid:3)प्रौद्यरविवकयरों(cid:3)के (cid:3)व्यावसायीकरण(cid:3)(cid:3)के (cid:3)विए(cid:3)वफक्की(cid:3)(cid:135)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:6)(cid:6)(cid:12)(cid:136)(cid:3)द्वारा(cid:3)व्यावसायीकरण(cid:3)कायाक्रम(cid:135)(cid:3)(cid:66)(cid:78)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:81)(cid:66)(cid:72)(cid:64)(cid:75)(cid:72)(cid:89)(cid:64)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:78)(cid:77)(cid:3)प्ररग्रम्म(cid:136)(cid:3)प्रारों भ(cid:3)वकया(cid:3)िया(cid:3)है(cid:126)(cid:3)वजससे(cid:3)
Ms. Gunjan Rohilla, Project Assistant (Admin), RuTAG IIT Delhi
A s tudent’s perspective
I joined RuTAG in January 2019, and it has been an overwhelming experience since then. I have not only explored
ground  reality-based  problems  but  also  got  an  opportunity  to  apply  engineering  skills  that  I  learned  throughout  my
bachelor's. I feel the best thing about being part of RuTAG projects are the field trips that provide an opportunity to
explore some diverse small-scale rural industrial systems  that prevail within the country. Also, the projects  create a
direct impact on the livelihood of a group of people; hence there is always a personal sentiment present while working
on a specific problem. Lastly, I feel that being part of RuTAG does not only involve doing projects and solving problems,
but it also involves exploring different cultures and people of our incredible India.
Vipul Sattavan, B. Tech Industrial Engineering, 4th Year, IIT Delhi
IIT KHARAGPUR     www1.iitkgp.ac.in/nss/uba/thrust.html
IIT MADRAS               rutag.iitm.ac.in
IIT MUMBAI               www.ctara.iitb.ac.in/en/rutag/
IIT GUWAHATI         www.iitg.ac.in/mech/Rutag-pal/index1.htm
IIT ROORKEE            www.rutagiitr.wordpress.com
For technical advice and collaboration:
Prof. S. K. Saha, Editor
Ph. 011-26591135, E-mail: sahaiitd@gmail.com
For general queries:
Mr. Davinder Pal Singh/ Mr. Raj Kumar Gupta
RuTAG IIT Delhi Office
12  |  Ru TAG,  Newsl ette r, Vol.9/1
This newsletter is compiled by Mr. Ashish Dahiya