RuTAG IIT Delhi News
Happy New Year 2022
Vol. 10, No. 1, January 2022
It is my pleasure to see the existence of our newsletter for a decade now. The journey was not easy as collecting
articles, compiling, and formatting was done by the RuTAG staff in the middle of daily workloads to meet deadlines
of various projects  undertaken.  I congratulate them  for their sincere efforts to  produce such important  documents
regularly twice in a year for last ten years.
I take this opportunity to thank Dr. Anand Plappally of IIT Jodhpur to conduct project under the banner of
RuTAG IIT Delhi and even transferring the technology to an entrepreneur. This is the first technology transfer in
history of RuTAG IIT Delhi existence since 2009. I hope many more faculty/researchers outside IIT Delhi will follow
this stint for the benefit of country’s majority who live in the villages.
The initiative of top team based online projects by RuTAG IIT Delhi during the last summer was a successful
experiment during the pandemic period when the students cannot meet physically to do the projects together. The
feedback in the article of this newsletter is really satisfying, particularly as a faculty, I have never seen such feedback
by  the  students  since  1996  when  I  joined  the  institute.  It  also  fulfilled  some  design  credit  requirements  of  the
undergraduate students. We plan to continue and extend such practices in future as well.
Let us hope our 2022 will be NO CORONA year when we will be able to say hello to each other face-to-face,
not through computer screen.
Happy New Year!
Prof. S. K. Saha
The  technology  on  “Controlled  porosity  frustum  shaped  subsurface
vessel with hybridized compost patch” was developed by Dr. Anand
Plappally, Associate Professor, IIT Jodhpur under a project funded by
RuTAG IIT Delhi got licensed through i-TTO (Figure 1) to a startup
company, Unnada Private Limited.
Figure 1: Template by i-TTO
Development of App for Ground Water Management
by IIT Indore
An  app  for  Ground  Water  Management  has  been  developed  by  Dr.  Aruna
Tiwari, and team at IIT Indore. This app have features like geolocator. One can
add, and  edit  data  in  the  app.  This  app  will  be  helpful  in  water  level
visualization. This app have multilingual interfaces to benefit the users based in
different localities. A workshop on Ground Water Management was conducted
at IIT Indore in collaboration with RuTAG IIT Delhi.
1 | R uTAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .10 /1
Figure 2: Ground Water
Management Workshop poster
Wool Carding Machine
PI –Prof. R. Chattopadhyay, Dept. of Textile Engg., IIT Delhi
Co-PI – Prof. S. K. Saha, Dept. of Mechanical Engg., IIT Delhi
Collaborating NGO – KHAMIR, Bhuj,Gujarat
A miniature wool carding machine (Figure 3) has been designed by RuTAG IIT Delhi
to card Patanwadi wool. The carding machine is expected to card wool between 1 to
2 Kgs per hour. It consists of two drums, namely, a main cylinder and a lickerin. Harraj
Industries  has  been  identified  as  the  manufacturing  partner.  The  fabricated  carding
machine will be tested for Patanwadi wool at IIT Delhi. Required corrections will be
incorporated based on the feedback. Then, a field visit to Bhuj will be planned for user
feedback. Khamir (an NGO) from Bhuj will be supporting the field testing of the new
Drum Carding Machine.
Figure 3: CAD Model of
Bharatpur visit: Testing of Potters Kiln for Tawas and a dome for Stone Carvers
A field visit was undertaken by Mr. Suraj Bhat and Mr. Yashwant Prasad to Bharatpur from Oct. 24 to Oct. 27 to carry
out field activities of Tawa Furnace and Dome for Stone dust projects. Lupin Human Welfare and Research Foundation
(NGO) coordinated the activities.
The Potters Kiln (Figure 4) in Unch village was tested to evaluate its performance for firing Tawas. Potters from Unch
and Poonchhari villages participated and assisted the team in the firing process that included Tawa staking, firing, and
removing  the  baked  Tawas.  Around  420  Tawas  were  fired,  and  sawdust  was  used  as  fuel.  The  team  got  some
convincing results from firing trial. Both Stacking and firing of Tawas completed within two hours and then kiln was
allowed to cool down. The next morning (around 9 AM) the baked Tawas were taken out from the kiln. Only about
2% of Tawas got damaged in the form of cracks. However, some issues such as the blackening of the Tawas due to
the deposition of soot was also observed. The potters informed that this can be overcome by filling the kiln upto the
top. Based on the feedback of trial firing the height of the kiln above the grate has been reduced to 1.5 feet  in the
modified  design.  Furter,  a  new  kiln  has  been  planned  to  be  constructed  in  Poonchhari  village  for  testing  and
The Dome manufactured for prevention of stone dust inhalation was tested in Rudawal village near Bharatpur (Figure
5). The site had around 30 to 40 labourers working on stone carving. Users were asked to try working with the Dome.
The Dome is made of plastic with special coating so that the dust does not stick to the surface. It also consists of
openings like a glovebox where the user can instert their hands. Feedback was collected on the aspects of usability and
ergonomics. Further design iterations will be carried out based on the feedback.
Figure 4: Testing of Potter’s Kiln for firing of Tawas
Figure 5: Testing of a Dome for Stone Carvers
2 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .10/ 1
Integrated Pottery Development by RuTAG IIT Madras
in  Tiruvallur  District’.  With
Towards  facilitating  innovation  in  traditional  pottery,  RuTAG  IIT  Madras  implemented  ‘Integrated  Pottery
products, technology support from a CSIR Institute (CGCRI) was leveraged. Preliminary testing of newly developed
microwave compatible clay products was done at the ‘Centre for Social Development (CSD)’, which collaborated as
the implementation partner for the initiative. Further to the testing at CSD, the dissemination of technology for the
poor rural artisans in and around Chennai was targeted. The ideation was pitched as a proposal to IOCL-SRPL (Indian
Oil Corporation Limited- Southern Regional Pipelines Division), and Tiruvallur district was identified a livelihood
cluster. The dissemination of the technology was done through CSR funds of IOCL-SRPL through the project entitled
‘Integrated  Pottery  Development  in  Tiruvallur  District’.  Tapping  CSR’s  support  for  technology  dissemination  by
RUTAG is first of its kind, done through this project.
The primary objective of the project was to improve the livelihood of the potter communities in the area with upgraded
skills  and  capacities  through  capability  building  programs  and  exposure  to  enhanced  infrastructural  facilities  and
technological  advancements.  The  project  introduced  a  set  of  hard  and  soft  interventions  for  integrated  pottery
development along with the technology of microwavable pottery (leveraged from CGCRI) in Tiruvallur district. The
project was targeted in enhancing the marketing of the products by providing quality production techniques, design
interventions and thereby improving the marketing infrastructure. The community was also trained to manage business
through improved marketing and sales linkages. About 80 potters were trained so far in these aspects.
A Common Facility Centre (CFC) was set up at Perumudivakkam for which land was provided by Govt of Tamil Nadu
wherein the potters are having access to improved tools and equipments. The CFC was inaugurated on 11th August
2021 in the presence of various stakeholders including the District Collector.
The Key outcomes envisaged from this Common Facility Centre include:
•  Three-to-four-fold increase in income for potters
•  Products from integrated pottery technologies draw income four times more than the market value of traditional
Immense market opportunity and possibility of export
•  Provides entrepreneurial avenues for trainees through hands on training experience as well as guidance through
•  Encourages adoption and scaling up such initiatives in other pottery clusters across the state.
Craft awareness programme on Tulsi mala bead making process organised by SPIC MACAY
On July 11, 2021, an online craft awareness programme (Figures 6 and 7) on Tulsi mala bead making process was
organised  by  SPIC  MACAY.  Keddriya  Vidyalaya,  Refinery  Nagar,  Mathura  hosted  the  eveent.  Around  90  school
students participated in the the event. Prof. S. K. Saha introduced RuTAG IIT Delhi team to the participants. Our NGO
partner Mr. Dharmender Verma from Human Welfare Society shared his thoughts about the history of Tulsi mala and
its value chain. Then, Prof. Saha presented intervention carried by RuTAG IIT Delhi in development of Tulsi mala
bead making device. Mr. Dharmender, an artisan, then demonstrated the bead making process with the new device
where he produced different shapes from Tulsi stem. Dr. Ketaki Bapat, the Coordinator of central RuTAG was the
Chief guest, who adressed the students and emphasized the integration of knowledge to real world applications and
Continued to Page 4
3 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .10/ 1
In continuation of Page 3
After the end of talk, the platform was opened for questions in order to interact with
students. The event ended with a vote of thank by Prof. Sangeeta Kohli on behalf of RuTAG IIT Delhi and Prof. Kiran
Seth on behalf of SPIC MACAY. In future, RuTAG IIT Delhi will be participating in craft talks of SPIC MACAY to
showcase its work and create awareness among students.
Mr. Yashwant Prasad, Sr. Project Engineer, RuTAG IIT Delhi
Figure 6: Online craft awareness programme on
Figure 7: Poster of the event
Tulsi mala making machine
RuTAG Summer Projects
Summer projects were offered by RuTAG IIT Delhi for the students of IIT Delhi during the months of July – August
2021.  Out  of  the  511  students  who  applied,  184  were  shortlisted  based  on  their  presentations  about  RuTAG.  The
students were then divided into 38 groups of 4 to 5 each. The offered projects were:
1. Smart Vending Cart – 23 Teams
2. Bhilwa Decortication – 7 Teams
3. Carding Machine – 4 Teams
4. Tawa Making Process – 2 Teams
5. Tulsi Mala Bead Making Machine – 2 Teams
The projects followed the philosophy of Team-Based Online Projects (TOP) which was conceived by Prof. S. K. Saha
in May 2020 during COVID pandemic. At the end of meet, each team’s work was evaluated by five other teams. This
process encouraged aspects such as peer learning, benchmarking, and teamwork. The teams started TOP projects on
July 6, and they submitted their final presentations on August 6th, 2021. The presentation sessions were held on August
28, and August 30. The  panel comprised of PIs,  Co-PIs,  and other faculty of  IIT Delhi. Selected teams were also
awarded Design Credits. Some of the feedback from the participants:
➢ Really enjoyed the fact that there was no spoon feeding and we worked on our own and built things.
➢ The project gave us a lot of freedom to think, identify, analyze, and solve real life problems.
➢ …was a great experience to work in a collaborative manner with so much nice random people.
➢ …we get to know different perception on the same problem and compare our level with other groups.
Mr. Suraj Bhat, Ph. D. Scholar, RuTAG IIT Delhi
4 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .10/ 1
Technology for Pathamadai Mat Weaving - IIT Madras
Thin reed mats have been woven for many years by a community living in the Pathamadai area of Tirunelveli district.
These mats and handicrafts are mostly known by the name of the place, Pathamadai. Market opportunities for thin
reed mats have been declining over time. These mats are subject to high production costs as they involve delicate hard
work and are still woven following the most ancient craft methods. Due to the fact that the industries are not developed
as a part of this craft industry, and the chances of getting good pay are less, the younger generation is leaving the art.
The Rural Technology Executive Committee of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was involved in
the technical development of the weaving looms in Pathamada for spinning thin reed mats. The ecological work change
of  the  weavers  and  the  reduction  of  their  workload  were  considered.  The  technology  thus  developed  multiplied
productivity and yielded good returns and improved designs.
Mechanical Jacquard linen with 120 hooks was initially developed to obtain symmetrical shapes on thin reed
mats and to provide excellent ergonomics. The result was a 200% increase in productivity. Later, electronic Jacquard
linen  with  192  hooks  was  developed  for  the  advanced  production  of  mats,  names,  and  bridal  faces  engraved  with
precise  inlays  of  large  shapes.  This  handloom  has  increased  productivity  by  300%  and  has  many  benefits  such  as
weaving  the  required  variety  of  shapes  easily  with  the  help  of  software,  without  stitching  the  mats  together.  A
‘Common Facility Center (CFC)’ with these handlooms and handloom-based facilities has been set up at Pathamada,
and many weavers are set to avail themselves of electronic handlooms.
Mr. Suraj Bhat presented the paper – ‘Attributes Based Ranking and Selection of Vending Carts using Fuzzy TOPSIS’
in  2021  IEEE  Global  Humanitarian  Technology  Conference  (GHTC)  organized  in  online  mode  by  IEEE  Seattle
Section, USA during Sept. 8-11, 2021.
When we received the mail about RuTAG for the first time, most of us applied for it to get design credits, but while
working on the project, we realized that we did not only involve ourselves in good research activity, but the ideas we
were working on could impact the society directly. It was a whole new experience for all the five members of the team
to work on a research project like this. Being new to the work, we were introduced to new skills, methodologies, and
we came across new ways to approach, a problem statement and scientific ways to frame the most suitable solution.
We wholeheartedly thank the IIT Delhi’s RuTAG Club who gave us this opportunity, and everyone who stood with
us and raised their helping hands throughout the project.
Upasak Sharma, Samyak Gothi, Aswin B Sreedhar, Chitraansh Pandey, Samir Sharma – 2nd year B.Tech, IIT Delhi
I got to know about RuTAG through the summer project opportunity they had offered in the institute. The structure of
the summer project was very flexible and gave us a sense of freedom. We were free to choose our problem statement
from a given list and proposed an entirely personalized solution for the same. This project gave me the ability to think
out of the box and apply my knowledge of mechanics for the good of society. I'm looking forward to carrying on with
my project and learning many more things from this wonderful club.
Anoushka Arya, 2nd year B.Tech, ME, IIT Delhi
5 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .10/ 1
A Multilingual Glance at Our Recent Newsletters
For original articles in English of RuTAG newsletters Vol. 9, No. 2, July 2021, kindly visit the link:
Miniaturized Wool Carding Machine
Translated by Prof. M. R. Ravi, Head, Dept. of Mechanical Engg., IIT Delhi
Figure 8: Wool carding machine
6 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .10/ 1
CETSD (Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development)
യവക്കുന്ധ(cid:3) ഐ(cid:3) ഐ(cid:3) െി(cid:3) ങ്കജാധ പുരിയല(cid:3) ഒരു(cid:3) ങ്കകപ്രമാണ (cid:3) സി(cid:3) ഇ(cid:3) െി(cid:3) എസ (cid:3) ഡി(cid:3) (cid:135)(cid:6)(cid:8)(cid:23)(cid:22)(cid:7)(cid:136)(cid:129)(cid:3) സമൂഹങ്ങൾ(cid:126)(cid:3)
7 | R u TAG,  Newslette r,  Vol .10/ 1
Continued to Page 8
In continuation of Page 7
Translated by Dr.Susha Lekshmi S.U., Program Manager, IHFC, TIH of IIT Delhi
Aloe Vera Cream Making Compact Machine
Translated by Mr. Mangal Sharma, Jr. Attendant, RuTAG IIT Delhi
IIT KANPUR           iitk.ac.in/rutag/
IIT KHARAGPUR http://www1.iitkgp.ac.in/nss/uba/thrust.html
IIT MUMBAI             www.ctara.iitb.ac.in/en/rutag/
IIT GUWAHATI       www.iitg.ac.in/mech/Rutag-pal/index1.htm
IIT ROORKEE         www.rutagiitr.wordpress.com
For technical advice and collaboration:
Prof. S. K. Saha, Editor
Ph. 011-26591135, E-mail: sahaiitd@gmail.com
For general queries:
Mr. Davinder Pal Singh/ Mr. Raj Kumar Gupta
RuTAG IIT Delhi Office
This Newsletter is compiled by Mr. Ashish Dahiya, Jr. Project Asstt., RuTAG IIT Delhi
8 | RuTAG , Newsl ette r, Vol .10/1