Prof. Rajendra Prasad Memorial Issue
Vol. 9, No. 2, July 2021
With heavy heart, I have to share another difficult to digest news
of losing Prof. Rajendra Prasad of our Centre for Rural Develop-
ment  and  Technology  at  IIT  Delhi  on  May  9,  2021.  He  was  the
founding Coordinator of RuTAG IIT Delhi and the Principal In-
vestigator  of  the  project  since  its  establishment  in  2009.  I  took
over  from  him  in  2014.  This  was  our  second  shock  during  the
COVID pandemic after we lost Prof. R.R. Gaur, the past Chair-
man of the Core Committee of RuTAG IIT Delhi, in Dec. 2020.
Even though the period of last six months was coincided
with the second wave of the COVID pandemic, we tried our best
to cope up with the situation and still marching ahead with our
activities. We could conduct our Core Group meeting online under
the  able  leadership  of  Dr.  Vibha  Gupta  (new  Chairperson).  We
continued our effort supporting a new initiative from the Ministry
of  Panchayat  Raj  and  Rural  Development  through  the  Office  of
the PSA to build a Smart Vending Cart, which is separately fund-
ed by the DST. Another important activity we carried out in last
several months while mostly working from home is preparing the
User’s Manual of most of the products which are sold through In-
novative Product Development of RuTAG ITT Delhi through FITT,
IIT Delhi. They will make the use and maintenance of the products
by the owners easy.
Prof. Subir Kumar Saha
Welcome to Dr. Vibha Gupta as the
New Chairperson of Core Group
RuTAG  IIT  Delhi  welcomes  its  new
its  Core  Group,
Dr.  Vibha  Gupta!  Dr.  Gupta  is  the
founder of Magan Sangrahalaya Samiti
(MSS)  at  Wardha,  Maharashtra,  the
National Museum of Rural Technology
started  by  Mahatma  Gandhi.  She  has
immense  contribution  in  the  rural
development  and  women  empowerment.  Dr.  Gupta  received
“Swami Rama Humanitarian Award” in 2016 by Swami Ramdev
(Founder  of  Patanjali  Yogpeeth)  for  her  contributions  to  the
society. All  staff,  collaborators,  and  well-wishers  of  RuTAG  IIT
Delhi will look forward to the guidance of Dr. Vibha Gupta.
A Tribute to Prof. Rajendra Prasad
My  journey  with  Prof.  Rajendra  Prasad
started more than two decades ago when
one of our mechanical students approached
me to help him in a carpet project under
Prof. Prasad. Instantly, I refused telling him
that carpet is Textile to me. However, with
little insistence, I tried to understand and
met Prof. Rajendra Prasad. It was the de-
sign  of  looms,  cleaning  mechanisms,  etc. As  a  result,  I  agreed  to
be the Co-Principal Investigator. I vividly remember our Saturday
meetings at Micro Model Complex of the Centre for Rural Devel-
opment and Technology (CRDT) at IIT Delhi whose name is now
changed  to  Gramodaya  Parisar. We  visited  Bhadohi  in  Uttar  Pra-
dash together ‘n’ times where the project was getting implemented.
His  passion  towards  rural  development  was  immense.  Soon,  we
became family friends as we lived in the same apartment complex
(Taxila) for a long time.
Later,  when  RuTAG  was  established  in  2009,  Prof.  Rajendra
Prasad and Prof. R.R. Gaur involved me in one of the projects on
Tulsi  Mala  Bead  making  device  for  Bharatpur,  Rajasthan. Again,
our paths met. Soon I realized that we must tell young students and
others about our work on rural development. Hence, this newsletter
was born in 2013.
Comes 2014, when Prof. Prasad was retiring. With his sugges-
tion, my first Regional Workshop as the coordinator of RuTAG IIT
Delhi was held at Jashpur Nagar in Chattisgarh. The concept of Un-
nat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) was born during the discussion with Mr.
Kripa Prasad Singh of Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram who was hosting
the workshop. In 2014, when IIT Delhi was asked by MHRD (now
Ministry  of  Education)  to  coordinate  the  UBA  nationally,  I  was
asked by the administration to coordinate. The first person I asked
before I gave my consent was Prof. Rajendra Prasad. Later, due to
my other administrative responsibilities as the Heads of ME Dept.
and ITMMEC (now CART), I had to relinquish that responsibility,
but  journey  continues  under  the  leadership of  Prof. V.K. Vijay  of
Even  at  times  we  had  differences  in  working  styles  our  motto
was same, i.e., “Rural Development.” I must salute him for his roles
in rural development. Let his soul rest in peace and his message for
the rural sectors carries forward!
Prof. Subir Kumar Saha
1 |  RuTAG,  News lette r,  Vol.9/2
1. Aloe Vera Cream Making Compact Machine
PI – Prof. R. P. Saini, Dept. of Hydro and Renewable Energy, IIT Roorkee
Collaborating NGO – Society for Farmers Development, Mandi, Himachal Pradesh
Aloe  Vera  has  been  used  by  mankind  for  thousands  of  years  in  folk  medicine  for
therapeutic properties, especially on skin.
Lots of machines are available to process Aloe-Vera but they are huge in size
and cannot be afforded by low-income farmers. Even existing small size Aloe-Vera
processing  machine  lacks  in  single  unit  for  processing  the  Aloe-Vera.  In  existing
machines, grinding blades are not efficient to grind the Aloe-Vera pulp. Due to this
problem  Aloe-Vera  is  processed  in  various  stages  which  is  time  consuming  and
production rate become very slow. So, in order to solve the problem of the existing
machine, new model of Aloe-Vera processing machine (Figure 1) has been developed.
For execution of the operation of this machine, first of all, Aloe-Vera leaf are peeled
to extract the pulp for grinding purpose then Aloe-Vera juice is made. After that bee’s
wax and mustard oil are mixed and indirect heating is given through water jacket for
melting  at  higher  temperature.  At  the  end,  the  juice  and  the  mixture  is  mixed  and
stirred together along with constant heat supplied to it for making moisturizing cream.
2. Improved Herbal Coil Machine
PI – Prof. P. B. Bhadoria, Agriculture and Food Engineering, IIT Kharagpur
Collaborating NGO – Not Available
The  pedal  operated  mosquito  coil  making  machine  (Figures  2a  and  2b)  uses  the
concept of Impact forces. The material prepared with the help of a mould fixed at the
top.  While  pressing  the  pedal,  the  lever  mechanism  connected  to  it  converts  the
moment given by the pedal into vertical translatory motion. Cutting mould fixed right
above its geometric centre. After the cutting action takes place, platform falls back
under gravity, and to reduce the jerk, a spring is incorporated that supports the platform
and takes it to its initial position of operation. On testing of the machine, it produces
7 mm thickness coils. The capacity of the machine is about 120 coils per hour.
3. Miniaturized Wool Carding Machine
PI – Prof. S. K. Saha, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Delhi, Prof. Rabisankar
Chattopadhyay, Dept. of Textile Engineering, IIT Delhi
Collaborating NGO – Khamir, Village Kukma, Bhuj, Gujarat
The  problem  of  Wool  carding  (Figure  3)  came  from  an  NGO,  Khamir  from  Bhuj,
Gujrat,  during  RuTAG  IIT  Delhi  regional  workshop  in  June  2019.  Local  artisans
urgently need a solution for wool carding because Khamir currently uses carding from
a  mill  in  Bikaner,  which  is  counterproductive  as  it  increases  the  cost  of  the  whole
process, such as transportation and processing. Also, the quality of carded wool is not
what the artisans expect. Afterall, it is contrary to the philosophy of local processing,
production, and employment. Older second-hand machines are also available in the
market, but they are expensive and require a lot of space to operate and maintain.On
the  other  hand,  the  commercial  carding  machine  fabricators  show  little  interest  in
designing a small scale simplified machine for carding. To understand the problem, a
questionnaire  was  prepared  and  shared  with  Khamir.  Information  was  collected
through  discussions,  interviews,  and  questionnaire.  Further  development  is  in
4. Sand Terrain Cart to use in river island
PI – Prof S. K. Kakoty, Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Guwahati
Collaborating NGO – Rural Economic and Development Society
RuTAG  IIT  Guwahati  in  collaboration  with  READS  (Rural  Economic  and
Development Society) developed a cart useful for carrying goods in the riverbank area.
The problem has been identified from a place known as Sadiya, Tinsukia district.
Continued to Page 3
Figure 1: Aloe-Vera
Figure 2(a): Dr. R.
Herbal coil making
Figure 2(b): Mosquito
coil made by the Herbal
Coil Making Machine
Figure 3: Wool carding
(Picture source: Internet)
2 |  Ru TAG,  News l ette r,  Vol.9/2
In Continuation of Page 2
The dairy business is very popular at this place and vendors from Tinsukia, and nearby
places collect the milk from Sadiya. The problem faced by the farmers is that after
taking out the milk from the cattle they have to transport these cans to the mainland
from  these  islands.  This  method  of  transportation  is  full  of  drudgery  and  it  is  very
slow. There is a gap of S&T intervention to improve the method of transportation and
uplift the economy of the farmers. A tricycle cart (Figure 4) has been developed by
RuTAG-IIT  Guwahati  team  and  field  tested  to  drive  in  the  sandy  terrain  of  the
riverbank  area. It is  propelled by a chain drive mechanism. The cart is suitable for
transportation of various products and suitable for operation in those areas.
Figure 4: Sand Terrain Cart
Training on weaving technology for tribal weavers of Karbi Anglong, Assam
RuTAG  IIT  Guwahati  provided  a  training  from  19th  –  23rd  February  2020  on  various  weaving  related  technology
developed  by  RuTAG  IIT  Guwahati  (Figures  5a  and  5b).  These  weavers  came  from  Karbi  Anglong,  Assam  and  a
handholding  training  was  provided  to  them.  The  machines  that  are  introduced  to  the  weavers  are  Hank  to  Bobbin
Winding Machine, Pirn Winding Machine, Sectional Warping Machine and Power Loom. Along with the hand holding
support, the trainers were also taught about the importance of these machines in the weaving sector. With the use of
technology,  it  will  increase  the  productivity  and  uplift  the  rural  economy.  The  weavers  were  also  taught  about  the
importance of various silk and their market demand in the international market. Various designs, market linkage and
different government schemes were also discussed during the training programme.
Figures 5(a) and (b): A hands on training to the
Figures 6(a): RuTAG and Khamir team with shepherds; (b) Visit
to wool spinning cluster
A visit to Bhuj, Gujarat
Mr. Yashwant Prasad (Project Associate) and Mr. Ashish Dahiya (Jr. Project Assistant) from RuTAG IIT Delhi have
visited Khamir, NGO based in Bhuj, Gujarat, during Jan 15-21, 2021. The visit was to study the feasibility of Wool
Carding Machine, Tawa Making cluster, and Sheep Shearing.
On the first day, RuTAG and Khamir Team visited a village 20 km away from Bhuj to meet the local shepherds (Figure
6a) and gather information aboutthe availability of sheep and their breeds. The RuTAG team met the shepherds and
asked them about their livelihood and the shearing method of their sheep. During this visit, it was also found that there
are  four  types  of  breeds  available  in  Bhuj,  which  are  Patanwadi,  Marwadi,  Baradi,  and  Ghari.  The  Patanwadi  and
Marwadi breeds have good wool quality compared to other breeds in the region. The shepherds told them that they had
to wander around the pasture and could not stay in a particular place to feed the flock. They also said that a sheep needs
to be shorn twice or thrice a year. The hand-shorn wool does not have any commercial value; therefore, the shepherds
need to throw it away. Khamir helps them by procuring the hand-shorn wool. The next day, the team visited a wool
spinning cluster (figure 6b). In this cluster, 25-30 women were working on the spinning of the wool sliver. The Khamir
team helps to operate this cluster by providing a carded sliver. The Khamir team procures the wool from the shepherds
and then sends it to Bikaner for carding. The carded sliver gets distributed to the villages where the Khamir team has
set up the spinning clusters. After spinning, the Khamir procures the thread from the clusters and then makes products
like Bags, Kurtis, etc. The process involving the transportation of raw wool, carding of the wool, and sliver is very
costly. Khamir team expressed their need to develop the miniaturized wool carding machine so that the whole process
from wool to the product can be localized.
Continued to Page 4
3 |  Ru TAG,  News lette r, Vol.9/2
In Continuation of Page 3
On the last day, the team visited the earthen tawa-making cluster. A 6-ton motorized press was being used to make the
tawa. The RuTAG team met Mr. Ramju Bhai, an artisan working in this field for more than 40 years. Ramju Bhai
expressed the need to improve the furnace for tawa firing to the RuTAG team.
The RuTAG team expressed its gratitude to the Khamir team for the arrangements to make this trip a success.
Mr. Ashish Dahiya (Jr. Project Asstt.), and Mr. Yashwant Prasad (Project Associate), RuTAG IIT Delhi
CETSD (Center for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development)
CETSD  is  the  center  at  IIT  Jodhpur  which  puts  on  the  ground  viable  solutions  through  schemes  combining  the
technology, funding, management, social, data and environmental touchstones. Communities, industries, government,
students,  academic  institutes,  individuals,  and  non-governmental  organizations  are  a  part  of  this  trans-disciplinary
center. In 2019, Prof Santanu Chaudhury, Director IIT Jodhpur said, that the Center for Emerging Technologies for
Sustainable Development is the scientific social responsibility arm of IIT Jodhpur. The vision of CETSD is “To be a
partner in tapping the potential of emerging technologies for creating a sustainable and prosperous future India”. There
are five major broad missions on which CETSD is working. These are as follows:
1. To provide a platform for non-governmental and governmental collaborators to work together to apply
emerging technologies for finding and implementing solutions towards achieving SDG targets.
2. To help develop scientific temper societies to understand technologies that are sustainable or technologies that
are using sustainability aspects.
3. To  innovate  solutions  and  strategies  towards  challenges  in  location  specific  problems  related  to  energy  use,
education, water management, infrastructure, traditional livelihood skills, and health.
4. To perform applied research in areas such agriculture, environment, healthcare, waste management, pollution,
livelihood, knowledge dissemination and rural development.
5. To make synergistic policy suggestions to handle issues in energy use, agriculture, water management, local
pollution in a region and its influences on health.
With mission 4, CETSD also aligns itself with the decree of the Ministry of Human Resource and Development (now
Ministry of Education) to set rural development centers at all IITs. CETSD will work towards all the 17 UNSDGs but
will concentrate on a handful of them at a time on a priority basis as per the requirement and funding availability.
Health, water management, education tools and management, industry partnerships and collaborative programs are the
major focus at CETSD. At present, CETSD has live projects on the ground at Sirohi contributing to the Aspirational
District Scheme of the Government of India. Silicosis prevention clinics and camps using telemedicine, AI technologies
and  Genomic  intervention  and  dust  extraction  solutions  are  deployed  in  certain  mines  across  Sirohi.  Here  other
institutions such as CEERI Pilani, CSIR-IGIB, AIIMS Jodhpur are also collaborative partners.
Water  technologies  such  as  membrane-based  purification  devices,  water  production  devices,  and  household  water
purification has been installed in various locations at different district of Western Rajasthan. For example, more than
five installations of UF hybrid water purification technologies have been installed in rural schools across Jhunjhunu,
Pali, Sirohi and Jodhpur. CETSD faculty also has IITJ campus Site C, which is almost 5 acres, to pilot their technologies
and demonstrate them to the common public. The functioning of the Ministry of Education’s Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
(UBA) Regional Coordination Center is also accommodated within CETSD. CETSD faculty gets involved with Rural
Technology Action Group (RuTAG) IIT Delhi to enable the rural grass root communities of artisans and farmers with
novel technologies, for example, modified pitcher Irrigation.
CETSD also hosts the popular ETSD (Emerging Technologies and Sustainable Development) seminar series where
academicians, industrialists, and knowledge bearers from across the world share their expertise and know-how to the
different stake holders including the different regional educational institutions in Rajasthan and India. CETSD is also
starting the Doctoral program on Sustainability and Technology as well as also modular certificate courses aligned to
the thoughts of technology for sustainable development.
With a strength of 20 faculty members, CETSD team strives to enable optimal usage of renewable natural resources,
showcases responsible orientation of technologies and institutional abilities to serve the society towards attaining their
Prof. Anand Palapally, IIT Jodhpur
4 |  Ru TAG,  News lette r, Vol.9/2
A Multilingual Glance at Our Recent Newsletters
For original articles in English of RuTAG newsletters Vol. 8, No. 2, July 2020, and Vol 9, No. 1, Jan 2021, kindly visit the link:
Translated by Dr. Prasenjit Sarkhel, Dept. of Mechanical Engg. UCET, VBU, Hazaribagh
Figure 7: SSPV being retrieved
without disturbing soil
Figure 8(a): Stacking of Tawa; 8(b): Firing of Tawas; 8(c): Tawa
5 |  Ru TAG,  News lette r, Vol.9/2
Translated by Prof. M. R. Ravi, Mechanical Engg. IIT Delhi
Continued to Page 7
6 |  Ru TAG,  News lette r, Vol.9/2
In continuation of Page 6
Figure 9: Mound Based Sub Surface Porous Vessel with
hybridized Compost Patch
Translated by Dr. Susha Lekshmi S. U., NPDF, IIT Delhi
Continued to Page 8
7 |  Ru TAG,  News lette r, Vol.9/2
In continuation of Page 7
Figure 10(a): Mask at closed
Figure 10(b): Mask at open
Figure 11: Interactive session with
Translated by Mr. Suraj Bhat, Ph. D. Scholar, IIT Delhi
IIT KANPUR           iitk.ac.in/rutag/
IIT KHARAGPUR    http://www1.iitkgp.ac.in/nss/uba/thrust.html
IIT MADRAS               rutag.iitm.ac.in
IIT MUMBAI               www.ctara.iitb.ac.in/en/rutag/
IIT GUWAHATI       www.iitg.ac.in/mech/Rutag-pal/index1.htm
IIT ROORKEE         www.rutagiitr.wordpress.com
For technical advice and collaboration:
Prof. S. K. Saha, Editor
Ph. 011-26591135, E-mail: sahaiitd@gmail.com
For general queries:
Mr. Davinder Pal Singh/ Mr. Raj Kumar Gupta
RuTAG IIT Delhi Office
8 |  Ru TAG,  News lette r, Vol.9/2