M.Tech. in Functional Materials
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering is an interdisciplinary branch that deals with converting
raw  materials  into  a  product  by  leveraging  upon  design,  extraction,  processing,  and
characterization  of  materials  for  aerospace,  automotive,  energy,  electronics,  and  healthcare
applications. The following are the focus areas of the Department: (a)  Computational Materials
Engineering,  (b)  Structural  Materials,  (c)  Functional  Materials,  and  (d)  Process  Metallurgy.
Computational  Materials  Engineering  provides  an  understanding  of  materials  from  atomistic  to
macro  length  scale  and  leads  to  smart  and  intelligent  materials  selection,  alloy  design,  the
discovery of unknown  materials as well as improvement of metallurgical processes. The major
focus  of  the  Structural  Materials  area  is  to  understand  the  processing-microstructure-property
correlation for designing and processing materials with superior combinations of properties in the
finished engineering products. Functional Materials possess one  or more native properties that
can  be  triggered  by  an  external  stimulus  (electric/magnetic  fields).  Hence  these  materials  are
used for a plethora of functional devices ranging from energy harvesting, healthcare, and modern-
day  information  technology.  Process  Metallurgy  deals  with  mineral  beneficiation  and  metal
The  Department  offers  an  M.Tech.  program  and  an  M.Tech.-Ph.D.  dual  degree  program  in
Materials  Engineering.  Incoming  students  choose  a  specialization  from  the  following  four
specializations at the beginning of their first semester: (a) Computational Materials Engineering,
(b) Structural Materials, (c) Functional Materials, and (d) Process Metallurgy. The credits required
for the M.Tech. degree are distributed among the program core, specialization core, specialization
electives, program electives, open electives, project, and non-graded compulsory activities. The
program core courses are common among all specializations and cover the core concepts within
the discipline of Materials Engineering. The student will take the specialization core courses and
the specialisation elective courses offered in the chosen specialization and conduct a project within
that specialization. The specialization core courses provide the essential background of the chosen
specialization  and  prepare  the  students  for  the  specialization  electives  as  per  their  options
exercised.    The  program  elective  courses  in  the  program  structure  are  designed  to  ensure
sufficient  breadth  in  Materials  Engineering,  and  these  courses  must  be  chosen  from  the  other
specializations within the program. The open elective courses allow students to explore courses
from any department. Previously, the course curriculum for the Structural Materials, and Process
Metallurgy specializations was presented. Here, the course curriculum for Functional Materials is
  Provide rigorous academic and research training in advanced areas of Functional Materials
  Produce professionals with an in-depth understanding of Materials Engineering, capable of
providing solutions to meet future materials challenges.
  A  further  objective  of  the  program  is  to  inculcate  certain  specific  enabling  skill-sets  to
prepare  the  students  to  take  up  challenges  in  any  one  or  more  functional  materials
domains  viz.  (i)  Academics,  (ii)  Applied  Research,  (iii)  Research  &  Development,  (iv)
Materials Engineering & Technology, (v) Entrepreneurs, (vi) Industry and (vii) Innovators.
2.  Graduate attributes
  Knowledge  to  characterize  functional  materials  features  at  various  length  scales  using
In-depth understanding of the fundamental concepts of Functional Materials.
experimental and computational approaches.
  Ability to apply the acquired knowledge of Functional Materials to real-world engineering
  Skills to demonstrate and investigate intrinsic properties of Functional Materials by the use
of experimental techniques.
  Ability  to  design,  fabricate  and  characterize  device  structures  such  as  semiconductor
devices, sensors, etc.
  Skills to understand and solve industry-oriented problems and challenges.
  Skills to effectively communicate scientific findings to peers and the general public.
Innovative skills to analyse, design, and execute technical projects.
  Appreciation and adherence to professional ethics.
3.  Learning Outcome
  Synthesise and characterize functional materials
  Understand the structure-property correlation of functional materials
  Understand,  design,  control,  and  fabricate  Functional  Materials  devices,  synthesis
processes, their properties, and applications.
  Define  a  research  problem  and  devise  an  appropriate  methodology  for  addressing  the
Identify normative commitments of technological knowledge, artifacts, and familiarity with
the manifold responsibilities linked to their profession.
  Critically develop linguistic competence and subject competence in the genres of technical
Program structure with courses
and  Kinetics  of
Project (Stage-I)  0-0-
n of Materials
Open Elective-2  3-0-
Distribution of Credits (M.Tech.)
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
M.Tech. Program Courses
List of Program Core courses
MTL7XX0  Computational  Thermodynamics  and  Kinetics  of
MTL7XX0  Structure and Characterization of Materials
Industry  4.0:  Applications
in  Metallurgical  and
List of Specialisation Core courses
(a) Functional Materials
MTL7XX0  Symmetry, Structure, and Tensor Properties
Functional Materials Laboratory
List of Specialisation Elective courses
List of specialisation elective courses to be offered for M.Tech. students under
(a) Functional Materials
MTL/BBL 7XX0  Biomimetic Materials
MTL/PHL 7XX0  Processing and Engineering Application of
Functional Materials for Sensors and Actuators
Fundamental of Scintillation Detector Materials
Functional 2D Materials
Advanced Transmission Electron Microscopy
Materials for Electrochemical Energy Conversion
(1 fractal from
MTP/PHP 7XX0  Design and Fabrication of Printed Circuit Board
MTL/PHL 7XX0  Advanced Ferroic Materials
MTL/EEL 7XX0  Advanced Semiconductor Materials and Device
Courses from Other Departments
Vacuum Systems and Thin Film Technology
Semiconductor Device Technology
Solar Energy Technologies
MEMS & Microsystems Technology
Packaging  of  Electronic  Devices  –  Polymeric
materials & Chemical Technology
Structure & Property for Polymers
Nanomaterials and Nanodevices
Advanced Electrochemistry and Applications
Tissue  Engineering  &  Medical  Devices  and
Non-Volatile Memory Technologies
Program Elective courses
A  student  from  a  given  specialisation  should  opt  for  Program  Elective  courses  from  the  other
Specialisation courses (core and elective).
Open Elective courses
The open elective courses can be taken from courses offered by any Department.
Functional Materials Core Courses
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1.  To  provide  the  students  with  a  detailed  understanding  (synthesis/growth,  structure,  and
properties) of the functional materials.
2. To develop an understanding of the usage of functional materials as a component of modern
The students will be able to:
1. Compare, correlate and investigate the different synthesis, characterization, and application of
exemplar functional materials.
2. Integrate the understanding of functional materials' properties and their applications.
Material synthesis and processing of functional materials: Bulk Synthesis: Solid state synthesis,
Sol-Gel  synthesis,  Thin-Film  synthesis:  Sputtering,  Molecular  beam  epitaxy,  CVD,  3D  printing,
electrospinning. (8 lectures)
Defects  in  solids:  Defect  types  and  dimensionality  effect  on  defects,  Characterization
(morphological and spectroscopic), Control of defects. (8 lectures)
Semiconductor materials: Band structure, Doping, Band-Gap engineering. (2 lectures)
Applications:  Beyond  Si  semiconductors,  GaN,  GaAs,  SiC,  Ga2O3,  LEDs,  and  photovoltaic  cells
(CdS, CIGS, CZTS, Perovskites and Organic solar cell materials). (6 lectures)
Materials  for  energy  applications:  Thermoelectric  materials:  ZT  value,  Band-Gap,  Conductivity
engineering, Oxide materials, Heusler alloys, Artificial and hierarchical materials, Peltier cooling,
Thermoelectric generator, , Dielectric, Piezoelectric, Ferroelectric materials and applications,. (8
Magnetic  materials  &  applications:  Magnetic  exchange  energy,  anisotropy  energy,  Magnetic
domains,  Application  of  soft  and  hard  magnetic  materials,  Magnetic  data  storage,  ,
Superconductors in electronics. (6 lectures)
Optical materials: , Optical lithography, and applications, Electro-optic materials. (4 lectures)
1. Askeland, D.R., Phule, P.P., Wright, W.J., The Science and Engineering of Materials, 6th edition,
Cengage Learning, 2010.
2.  Callister,  W.D.,  Rethwisch,  D.G.,  Materials  science  and  Engineering:  An  Introduction,  8th
edition, Wiley, 2010.
3. Mitchell, B.S., An Introduction to Materials Engineering and Science for Chemical and Materials
Engineers, 1st ed., Wiley- Interscience, 2003.
4. Kittel, C., Introduction to Solid State Physics, 8th edition, Wiley, 2005.
1. Kasap, S.O., Principles of Electronic Materials and Devices, 3rd edition, McGraw-Hill, 2006.
2. Raghavan, V., Materials Science & Engineering: A first course, 5th edition, PHI Learning, 2004.
Online Course Material
1. Haridoss, P., Physics of Materials, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Metallurgy & Material
Science, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
2.  Garg,  A.,  Electroceramics,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Material  Science  &
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,
Symmetry, Structure and Tensor
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Linear Algebra and Matrix Mathematics, MATLAB/Mathematica
1. Introduce the concept of symmetry in crystal lattices, point groups, and space groups.
2.  Use  of  symmetry  in  the  tensor  representation  of  crystal  properties,  including  anisotropy,
representation surfaces, elasticity, and applications to piezoelectricity.
The students will be able to:
1. Learn how to calculate different thermodynamic properties of different materials.
2. Understand how crystalline anisotropy affects/governs the property anisotropy.
Introduction: Spherical trigonometry and Applications in crystallography. (5 lectures)
Crystal lattices: Direct lattice, Crystal systems, Bravais lattice. (2 lectures)
Point  groups:  Stereographic  projection,  Proper  cubic  point  groups,  Improper  point  groups
(dihedral angle, inversion symmetry), Types of point groups: 2D and 3D lattices. (7 lectures)
Space groups: Enumeration of the operations, Different space groups with specific materials
examples. (7 lectures)
Group  theory:  Basic  Concepts,  Character  Tables,  Examples,  Symmetry  and  Lattice
Vibrations:  Mode of Vibrations, Jahn-Teller Effect. (7 lectures)
Tensor  properties  of  materials:  Basic  tensorial  operations,  Transformation  of  axis,  Eulerian
angles,  Orthogonality  Neumann  principle,  Pseudo  tensors,  Symmetry  and  Mathematical
properties of tensors. (7 lectures)
Different  ordered  tensors:  2nd  order  (Stress-Strain,  Permittivity,  Permeability,  Thermal
Expansion), 3rd order (Piezoelectricity), 4th order (Elasticity Tensor). (7 lectures)
1.Newnham,  R.E.,  Structure-property  relations  (Vol.  2).  Springer  Science  &  Business  Media,
2.  Nye,  J.F.,  Physical  properties  of  crystals:  their  representation  by  tensors  and  matrices.
Oxford university press, 1985.
1. Buerger, M.J., Elementary crystallography, John Wiley & Sons, 1956.
2. International Tables for Crystallography Volume A: Space-group symmetry, ISBN: 978-0-
Online Course Material
1. Wuensch, B., Symmetry, Structure, and Tensor Properties of Materials, DMSE MIT, MIT OCW,
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Functional Materials Laboratory
1. To introduce different kinds of functional material synthesis (thin film and bulk) techniques,
as well as an insight into device fabrication.
2. Introduce different functional property measurement techniques and concomitant analysis.
The students will be able to:
1. Get first-hand knowledge of synthesizing functional materials and device fabrication.
2. Understand different types of measurement techniques and analyse the device performance.
1.  Performance evaluation of capacitors by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy.
2.  Performance evaluation of secondary batteries by electrochemical impedance
3.  Fabrication and property evaluation of dielectric/ ferroelectric (BaTiO3/PZT) materials.
4.  Electrode preparation (Thin-Film deposition) via spin coating.
5.  Synthesis of 2D materials and their hybrids(e.g, graphene, MoS2).
6.  Magnetic measurements (M-H hysteresis/ M vs T measurement).
7.  Semiconductor characterization: Hall/ I-V measurements.
8.  Optical Property measurements: Transmittance/ Photoluminescence/ Band-Gap.
9.  Performance evaluation of alkaline primary cell/ lead-acid battery/ Li-ion batteries.
10. 3D Printing of electronic material/bio-materials/energy materials.
1. Cheong, K.Y., Impellizzeri G., Fraga M. A., Emerging Materials for Energy Conversion and
Storage, 1st Edition, Elsevier, 2018.
2.  Banks,  C.,  E.,  Browson,  D.,  A.,  C.,  2D  Materials,  Characterization,  Production  and
Applications, CRC Press, 2017.
3.  Schroder,  D.K.,  Semiconductor  Material  and  Device  Characterization,  3rd  ed.,  Wiley-
Interscience, New York, 2006.
4. Venuvinod, P.K., Ma W., Rapid prototyping: laser-based and other technologies. Springer
Science & Business Media, 2013.
5. Gibson, I., Rosen, D., Stucker, B., Additive Manufacturing Technologies: Rapid Prototyping
to Direct Digital Manufacturing, Springer, New York, NY, 2015.
6. Kumar, L. J., Pandey, P.M., Wimpenny, D.I., eds. 3D printing and additive manufacturing
technologies. Singapore: Springer, 2019.
1.  Lab  manuals  and  study  materials  will  be  provided  for  Hall,  I-V  measurements,  M-H
hysteresis,  M  vs  T  measurement,  spin  coater,  electrochemical  impedance  spectroscopy  and
Online Course Material
1. Ramanathan, S., Chemistry and Biochemistry, IIT Madras,
2. Maiti, H.S., Department of Metallurgy and Material Science, IIT Kharagpur,
3. Bhat, K.N., Anathasuresh, G.K., Gopalakrishnan, S., Vinoy, K.J., Department of
Mechanical Engineering, IISc Bangalore,
4.  Ganguli, A.K., Department of Nanotechnology, IIT Delhi,
5. Banerji, P., Department of Metallurgy and Material Science, IIT Kharagpur.
6. Majumder, S.B., Material science Centre, IIT Kharagpur,
7. Kapil, S., Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Guwahati,
DETAILED SYLLABUS FOR THE SPECIALISATION ELECTIVE COURSES
Sensors and Actuators
1. To understand the basics of sensors, actuators materials, and their operating principle.
2. To explain the working of various types of electrochemical sensors and actuators.
The students will be able to:
1.  Apply  the  knowledge  for  the  selection  of  appropriate  materials  for  sensing,  design,  and
2. Understand the design and device fabrication challenges.
Fractal-1: Sensor Materials and its Applications: Introduction of sensors, Basics of energy
transformation  and  differences  between  transducers,  Sensors  and  Actuators,  Principles  of
micro sensors, basics of semiconducting metal oxide–based gas sensors. (7 lectures)
Conducting  polymers  sensor  materials,  mechanism  of  sensing,  properties  and  their
applications, magnetic nanoparticles sensors, gas sensing materials: Transition metal oxides,
SiC,  2D  materials  their  hybrids  and  heterostructures,  Materials  for  Biosensing,  FET  based
biosensors and luminescent materials for biosensing. (7 Lectures)
Fractal-2:  Actuator  Materials  and  its  Applications:  Introduction  of  actuators  and  its
working principle, Piezoelectric Actuators: Resonant and Non-Resonant actuation, Bimorphs,
Figure  of  merit,  Group  III-V  nitrides  (GaN/AlN),  Electrochromic  and  Electroactive  Polymer
actuators: Wet and Dry Electroactive polymer actuators (EAP) actuators, material selection,
design and fabrication of actuators. (7 lectures)
Shape memory alloys (SMAs): Introduction of Shape memory alloy materials, design of SMAs,
figure  of  merit  (FOM),  Scaling laws,  magnetic  actuators:  Magnetostriction,  Magnetostrictive
materials: giant magnetostriction, Design and Control of magnetostrictive actuators, Scaling
laws (7 lectures)
1)  Synthesis of functional materials (graphene oxide, boron nitride) for application in gas
2)  Fabrication of gas sensor (graphene oxide/ other 2D materials) (MT).
3)  Characterization using spectroscopic technique (UV-Visible) and Quality control (MT).
4)  Synthesis of metal (gold/silver/glass substrate) nanoparticles for biosensing (MT).
5)  Fabrication and characterization (Raman Spectroscopy) of biosensor (MT).
6)  Characterization using spectroscopic technique (UV-Visible) and Quality control (MT).
7)  Synthesis of PVDF for application in polymeric sensing (MT).
8)  Characterization using spectroscopic technique (UV-Visible) and Quality control (MT).
9)  Fabrication of polymer sensor (Universal Testing Machine) (MT).
10) Synthesis of carbonaceous material for electrochemical sensing (MT).
11) Fabrication of electrochemical sensor (Three-Electrode System) (MT).
12) Characterization using spectroscopic technique (UV-Visible) and Quality control (MT).
1.  Kloeck, B., Rooji, N.F., Mechanical Sensors in semiconductor Sensors, John Wiley NY 1994.
2.  Silva, D., Clarence W., Sensors and actuators: Engineering system instrumentation. CRC
1.  Rupitsch,  Johann,  S.,  Piezoelectric  Sensors  and  Actuators.  Springer-Verlag  Berlin
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 2018.
Online Course Material
1.  Pandya,  H.J.,  Department  of  Electrical  &  Electronic  Engineering  IISc  Bangalore  NPTEL
Fundamental of Scintillation Detector
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
1. A fundamental understanding of various scintillation detectors materials, and their
Upon completion students are expected to
1.  Get a general overview of scintillation detectors
2.  Have an insight into the scintillator material composition, critical elements, and usage.
Introduction,  Scintillation  detector  basics,  Components  of  a  scintillation  detector,  Detection
efficiency  –Density  factor,  Detection  efficiency  –Thickness  Factor,  Total  detection  efficiency,
Energy  transfer/interaction  in  scintillating  materials,  Properties  of  ideal  scintillation  materials.
Cross  scintillation  mechanism,  Organic  scintillators–  Liquid  organic,  Plastic,  Loaded  organic,
Response of organic scintillators. (14 lectures)
Inorganic scintillators – Scintillation mechanism, Glass scintillators, Scintillator gases, Radiation
damage  effects  in  inorganic  scintillators,  Nanoscintillator  –  Structural  effect,  Surface  effect,
dielectric  confinement,  Form  of  nanoscintillators  –  Nanoparticles,  Thin-Films,  Nano-Ceramics.
Photomultiplier tubes and photodiodes: Photocathodes – Photoemission, Spontaneous electron
emission,  Spectral  response,  Fabrication,  Statistics  of  electron  multiplication,  Photomultiplier
tube characteristics, Silicon photo multiplier. (14 lectures)
Photodiodes  –  Advantages,  Conventional,  Avalanche,  Charge  coupled  devices,  Radiation
spectroscopy with scintillators: General considerations in gamma ray spectroscopy, Properties
of scintillation gamma ray spectrometers, Characterization of scintillating materials, Customizing
scintillation  detector  –  Tradeoffs  on  materials,  Sizes  and  Components,  Specialized  detector
configurations based on scintillation – Phoswich detector, Moxon-Rae detector, Position sensitive
scintillators. (14 lectures)
1. Knoll, G.F., Radiation and Detection, 4th edition, ISBN: 0470131489, 2010.
1.  Korzhik, M., Gektin, A., Engineering of Scintillation Materials and Radiation Technologies:
Proceedings of ISMART,  Springer, ISBN: 978-3-319-68465-9, 2016.
2. Yanagida, T., Inorganic scintillating materials and scintillation detectors, Proc Jpn Acad Ser
B Phys Biol Sci. 9, 94(2): 75–97. Doi: 10.2183/pjab.94.007, 2018.
3. Duclos, S., Ceramic Scintillators, Annual Review of Materials Science, 27, 69-88, 1997.
Functional 2D Materials
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
1.  To introduce the emergent field of functional 2D materials.
2.  Provides a comprehensive overview of 2D materials their hybrids and heterostructures
systems that are relevant to different scientific applications.
Upon completion, students are expected to
1.  To know the basics of 2D materials.
2.  Van der Waal and Non- van der Waal materials hybrids and heterostructures.
3.  Design and fabricate 2D Advanced Materials based devices.
Fundamentals of 2D Materials
Introduction  of  functional  quantum  materials,  2D  family,  Electronic,  Magnetic,  Optical
properties of functional quantum materials, Dirac metals, Weyl fermions. (5 lectures)
2D  functional  quantum  materials  at  atomic  scale,  Topological  insulators,  Computation  of
electronic  properties  of
functional  quantum  materials,  Investigation  of  defect  and
Ohmic/Schottky contacts. (5 lectures)
Fundamental  and  properties  of  two-dimensional  materials  in  sensing:  Introduction,  Band
Alignment, Parameters of sensor performance. (4 lectures)
Fabrication of Devices, Application and Challenges
Synthesis (top-down and bottom-up approach and challenges), Characterization, and transfer
of Van der Waals (graphene, boron nitride, Molybdenum disulphide, Tungsten Disulphide, Black
Phosphorus, etc.) atomic sheets, Microscopic characterization by TEM. (3 lectures)
Non-Van  der  Waals  Materials  (Borophene,  Hematene,  Plumbene,  MXene,  etc.)  their  Hybrids
(2D/1D, 2D/2D, 2D/3D), composites and heterostructures, Fabrication of 2D Material devices
and challenges. (3 lectures)
Application  of  2D  Materials  and  their  hybrids  as  well  as  heterostructures:  Introduction
(Graphene, Xenes, MXene, and Complex 2D Materials) Opto-Electronics (LEDs), Gas Sensor,
Bio-Sensor,  Drug-Delivery,  Filtration/Desalination,  Photovoltaics,  Energy  Storage  and
Generation, Lubricants, Environmental Remediation. (6 lectures)
Challenges with 2D Materials hybrids/heterostructures and device fabrications. (2 lectures)
1) Synthesis of Van der Waals 2D material (e.g. Graphene, TMDCs) atomic sheets.
2) Characterization (morphological and spectroscopic) of the atomic sheets.
3) Fabrication of nano-devices (bio sensors, gas sensors, etc.).
4) Failure analysis and Quality control.
5) Synthesis of non-Van der Waals 2D material (e.g. Hematene, borophene, etc.) atomic
6) Characterization (morphological and spectroscopic) of the atomic sheets.
7) Fabrication of nano-devices (bio sensors, gas sensors, etc.).
8) Failure analysis and Quality control.
9) Synthesis of 2D hybrids and heterostructres (e.g. graphene/graphene oxide/reduced
graphene oxide/borophene/hematene/TMDCs, etc.) atomic sheets.
10) Characterization (morphological and spectroscopic) of the atomic sheets.
11) Failure analysis and Quality control.
1. Zettilli, N., Gubernatis, J.E., Lookman, T., Quantum Mechanics: Concepts and Applications,
2. Griffiths, D.J., Introduction to quantum mechanics, Prentice Hall International, 2004.
3. Banks, C., E., Browson, D.A.C., 2D Materials, Characterization, Production and Applications,
CRC Press, 2017.
1.  Ng,  L.W.T.,  Hu,  G.,  Howe,  R.C.T.,  Zhu,  X.,  Yang,  Z.,  Jones,  C.,  Hasan,  T.,  Printing  of
Graphene and Related 2D Materials: Technology, Formulation and Applications, Springer, 2019.
2. Errana, G., Metal Oxide Nanostructures as Gas Sensing Devices, CRC Press, 2012.
3. Avouris, P., Heinz, T.F., Low, T., 2D Materials Properties and Devices, Cambridge University
1. Paglione, J., Butch, N.P., Rodriguez, E. E., Fundamentals of Quantum Materials: A Practical
Guide to Synthesis and Exploration, World Scientific Pub Co Inc, 2021.
2. Heitmann, D., Quantum Materials, Lateral Semiconductor Nanostructures, Hybrid Systems
and Nanocrystals, Springer, 2010.
3.  Bartolomeo,  D.,  2D  Materials  and  Van  der  Waals  Heterostructures,  MDPI,  ISBN  978-3-
4.  Hywel,  M.,  Rout,  C.S.,  Late,  D.J.,  Late  Fundamentals  and  Sensing  Applications  of  2D
Materials, Elsevier, 2021.
Advanced Transmission Electron
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
1.  Introduce the working principle of Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM).
2.  Introduce of advanced TEM techniques to understand the material characterization at
the atomic scale.
The students will be able to:
1.  Develop an understanding of TEM from an experimental and theoretical perspective.
2.  The basic and advanced TEM simulation techniques for atomic-scale High Resolution
Introduction of advanced techniques in TEM:  Aberration correction in TEM, Z & Phase contrast,
High  angle  annular  dark  field  imaging,  Electron  Magnetic  Circular  Dichroism  (EMCD).  (4
4D-Scannning  Transmission  Electron  Microscopy  (4D-STEM),  Electron  Energy  Loss
Spectroscopy (EELS). (3 lectures)
Cryo-Electron  microscopy,  Electron  tomography,  Lorentz  microscopy,  Holography  in  TEM,
Differential phase contrast. (7 lectures)
Computational aspect of advanced TEM techniques: Multislice simulation of high-resolution TEM
imaging, Phase and Z contrast imaging. (4 lectures)
Simulation  methods  for  advanced  TEM  techniques  e.g.,  EMLD,  EMCD,  4D-STEM,  EELS.  (3
Advanced  concept  of  digital  micrograph  scripting,  Simulation  of  differential  phase  contrast
imaging, EELS data processing and analysis in TEM (7 lectures)
1)  Indexing of electron diffraction pattern.
2)  Simulation of electron diffraction pattern.
3)  Simulation of High-Resolution (HR-TEM) images.
4)  Simulation of Scanning Transmission Electron Microscope (STEM) images in TEM.
5)  Simulation of Electron Energy Loss Spectroscopy (EELS) spectra.
6)  Basics of digital micrograph scripting (installation and environment setting).
7)  Processing HR-TEM images by digital micrograph scripting.
8)  Processing EELS, STEM image data by digital micrograph scripting.
1. Kirkland, E.J., Advanced computing in electron microscopy, Springer, ISBN:978-1-4419-
2. Landup, D., Data visualization in python with pandas and matplotlib, ISBN:13: 979-
1.  Brent, F., James, H., Transmission Electron Microscopy and Diffractometry of
Materials. Springer, Berlin. ISBN 978-3-642-29760-1 (2013).
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech., B.Tech-M.Tech Dual Degree,
1.  This course introduces the student to the field of metamaterials.
1.  The students will learn fundamental concepts underlying physical properties and fabrication
techniques of metamaterials.
2.  The students will be exposed to the various application of metamaterials.
Introduction to metamaterials and Meta surfaces. (2 lectures)
Optical  and  mechanical  metamaterials,  Micro-/Nano-fabrication  methodologies,  and
Prospective applications. (3 lectures)
Sub-wavelength  waveguiding  and  focusing,  Super-resolution  imaging  and  nano-lithography
beyond  the  diffraction  limit  of  the  light,  Negative  refraction  and  permeability  and  Invisibility
cloaking. (5 lectures)
Plasmonic  metamaterials,  Enhanced  Raman  scattering,  Extraordinary  transmission,  Light-
trapping for solar cell. (4 lectures)
1.  Choudhury, P.K., Metamaterials: Technology and Applications, CRC Press, Taylor & Francis
1.   Simovski,  C.,    Tretyakov,  S.,  An  Introduction  to  Metamaterials  and  Nanophotonics,
Cambridge University Press, 2020.
2.  Cui, T.J.,   Smith, D.,   Liu, R., Metamaterials: Theory, Design, and Applications, Springer
Metallurgical  and  Materials  Engineering,
and, Bioscience and Bioengineering
1.  Introduces to evolution aspects of materials design in nature.
2.  Provide knowledge to design and fabricate bio-inspired materials.
The students are expected to:
1.  Understanding the design of bioinspired materials.
2.  Knowledge  to  fabricate  synthetic  model  systems  whose  structural  organization
resembles those of natural materials.
Fundamentals  of  engineering  in  biological  materials:  Biological  engineering  principles,  Self  -
assembly,  Hierarchy,  Adaption,  Evolution  and  Convergence,  Basic  building  blocks  found  in
biological materials. (8 lectures)
Functional  biological  materials:  Adhesion  and  Attachment,  Surfaces  and  Surface  properties,
Optical properties, Cutting: Sharp biological materials, Functional adaptation, Self-healing.
Bioinspired  structures:  Aerospace  and  Automobile,  Architecture  and  Building  designs,  Fibre
optics and Micro-lenses, Manufacturing. (7 lectures)
Bioinspired materials: Superhydrophobic Materials: The Lotus leaf effect, Self-healing materials,
Energy, Artificial photo-synthesis. (7 lectures)
Water purification, Attachment devices and Bio-inspired adhesives, Tough ceramic composites
Biomedical applications. (7 lectures)
Molecular  based  biomimetics:  Self-assembly  nano-structures,  Virus-assisted  synthetic
Materials, Genetically engineered peptides for inorganics, Diatom-derived MEMS devices.
1. Meyers, M.A., Chen P.Y., Biological Materials Science - Biological Materials, Bioinspired
Materials and Biomaterials, Cambridge University Press, 2014.
2.  Fratzl,  P.,  Dunlop,  J.W.C.,  Weinkamer,  R.,  Materials  Design  Inspired  by  Nature:  Function
Through Inner Architecture, The Royal Society of Chemistry, 2013.
Studart, A.R., Libanori, R., Erb, R.M., Functional Gradients in Biological Composites in Bio- and
Bioinspired Nanomaterials, Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 2014.
Processing and Engineering
application of Magnetic Materials
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Basic knowledge on Quantum Mechanics
1. The course will provide knowledge of the underlying phenomena of magnetism.
2. Emphasis will be on the preparation process & characterization methods of magnetic
materials used for engineering applications.
The students are expected to have:
1. The ability of understanding magnetic phenomena, and the metallurgical aspect of
developing magnetic materials.
2. They will also get exposure to engineering application of magnetic methods and
Fractal-1: Fundamentals of Magnetism
Origin of magnetism, Bohr magnetron, Magnetic field and their calculation, Susceptibility and
Permeability, Energy associated with the magnetic field, Thermodynamics of magnetic field,
Magnetic forces, Spin orbit coupling, Crystal field. (4 lectures)
Classification of magnetic materials, Weiss molecular field, Exchange interaction, Magnetic
anisotropy, Domains, Domain wall and domain wall motion, Magnetic hysteresis and
Barkhausen emissions, Techniques for characterization of magnetic materials, Magnetic
transport property, Magnetostriction, Magnetocaloric effect. (10 lectures)
Fractal-2: Processing and application of Soft and Hard Magnetic Materials
Nickel Iron alloys, Cobalt-Iron alloys, Electrical steel (CRNO, CRGO), Rapid solidification and
amorphous electrical steel, Amorphous & Nanostructured magnetic alloys, Soft ferrites,
Microstructure and magnetic property co-relations. (6 lectures)
Hard Magnetic Materials: Alnico, NdFeB, SmCo, MnBi, Hard ferrites. (5 lectures)
Heusler alloys and their applications. (3 lectures)
Fractal-3: Processing and application of Magnetic thin films and nanomaterials
Deposition of magnetic thin films and multilayers, Magnetic energy of thin film materials,
Characterisation of magnetic thin films. (3 lectures)
Magnetic coupling in thin films, spin valve structure, Giant magneto resistance and tunneling
magneto resistance, sensors. (5 lectures)
Magnetic wires and needles, Magnetic nanoparticles, Superparamagnetism,  Quantum dots
and molecular magnets, 2-D magnets. (3 lectures)
Application of magnetic nanomaterials in Biology and sustainable technology. (3 lectures)
1. Chen, C.W., Magnetism and Metallurgy of Soft Magnetic Materials (Dover Books on
Physics), Courier Corporation, 2013.
2. Cullity, B.D., Graham, C.D., Introduction to Magnetic Materials, 2nd Edition, Wiley, 2009.
3. Coey, J.M.D., Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
1. Jiles, D., Introduction to magnetism and magnetic materials, Chapman and Hall, 1991.
2. Chikazumi, S., Physics of Ferromagnetism, 2nd Edition, OUP Oxford, 2009.
Materials for Electrochemical Energy
Conversion and Storage
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering and Physics
(1 fractal each)
The instructor will:
1. Provide the student with extended knowledge of the basic principles and recent advances in
Energy Storage materials and associated technologies for consumer electronics to high-power
2. Provide the students with the role of materials in energy storage technologies.
The students are expected to gain knowledge on:
1. Different modes of energy conversion, and storage with respect to scale, cost, energy, and
2.  Structure  processing  property  performance  relationship  of  the  energy  materials  developed
Introduction: Overview of electrochemical energy storage and conversion devices, Classification,
Applications. (2 lectures)
Batteries:  Introduction  to  batteries,  Primary  and  secondary  batteries,  Solid-state  and  liquid
electrolyte  batteries,  Lead  acid  batteries,  Nickel  cadmium  batteries,  Li-ion  and  Li-Polymer
batteries,  Intercalation  and  Conversion  materials,  Battery  capacity  and  Life,  Micro-batteries,
Thin-Film batteries, Materials for high-energy density 2D and 3D batteries. (12 lectures)
Fractal-2: Fuel Cells and Supercapacitors
Fuel  cells:  Principle  and  types,  Performance  characteristics  and  Efficiency  of  fuel  cell,  Proton
exchange fuel cells, Solid oxide fuel cells, Types of solid oxide fuel cells: High and Intermediate
temperature, Single chamber solid oxide fuel cells, Polymer electrolyte fuel cells, Acid/alkaline
fuel cells, Phosphoric acid fuel cell, Molten carbonate fuel cell, Fuel cell stack, Hydrogen storage.
Supercapacitors:  Difference  between  capacitor  and  supercapacitor,  Electrolyte  and  Electrode
materials, Electric double layer capacitors, Challenges and Applications. (4 lectures)
1.  Cheong,  K.Y.,  Impellizzeri  G.,  Fraga  M.A.,  Emerging  Materials  for  Energy  Conversion  and
Storage, 1st Edition, Elsevier, 2018.
1. Rosen, M. A., Energy Storage, Nova, 2012.
Online Course Materials
1.  Bazant,  M.,  MIT  open  course  ware:  Electrochemical  Energy  Systems,  MIT  Course  Number
2.  Pal,  K.,  Selection  of  Nanomaterials  for  Energy  Harvesting  and  Storage  Application,  NPTEL
Course Material, Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee,
Design and Fabrication of Printed Circuit Board   Number  MTP/PHP
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering and Physics
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
1.  To  develop  students’  skills  and  understanding  of  working  on  the  Printed  Circuit  Board
2.  Hands-on  training  of  lithography  patterns  on  various  substrates  (Polyethylene
terephthalate (PET) and flame retardant (FR-4)).
The students will be able to:
1.  Design  and  fabricate  printed  circuits  board  circuits  on  flexible  and  non-flexible
2.  Understand different kinds of PCBs, the difference between Printed Wiring Boards (PWB)
and PCB, types of PCBs: Single Sided (Single Layer), Multi-Layer (Double Layer), PCB
3.  Understand all the fabrication processes and challenges.
1.  Design of mask (L-edit, etc.).
2.  Fabrication of electrodes (two/four, interdigitated and micro-heater).
3.  Characterization of flexible/non-flexible PCB substrate.
4.  Process and Quality control.
5.  Over, Under etching (Wet/Dry) and Failure analysis.
6.  Rounding effect.
7.  Fabrication of complex circuits on flexible substrates.
8.  Multilayer PCB design.
1.  Mack,  C.,  Fundamental  Principles  of  Optical  Lithography:  The  Science  of  Microfabrication,
ISBN:9780470018934, DOI:10.1002/9780470723876, 2007.
1.  Lee,  J.H.,  Mechanical  and  Industrial  Engineering,  University  of  Massachusetts  (UMass)
Amherst, Metamaterials Blog,
Advanced Ferroic Materials
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering and Physics  L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1. Provide an in-depth understanding of functional ferroic materials.
2. Introduce advanced present-day topics on functional ferroic materials.
The students will be able to:
1. Carry out modern day scientific research in the field of functional ferroic oxides.
2. Follow and critique the scientific papers as well as carry out advanced analysis.
Introduction:  Basic  symmetry  consideration  of  materials,  Introduction  to  specific  materials,
Thermodynamics: Maxwell’s equations for different functional properties. (3 lectures)
Classical  definition:  Structural  phase  transitions  in  ferroelectrics,  Landau  theory  of  phase
transition  (disordered  and  displacive),  Concept  of  order  parameter,  Landau  theory  for
phenomenological  calculations  of  properties,  Morphotropic  Phase  boundaries,  Mean-field
theory and soft mode concept. (11 lectures)
Concepts  of  ferroelectric  domains  in  bulk:  Coexisting  domain  states,  Twinning  operations,
Domain  wall  orientation,  Imaging  of  domains,  Static  domain  patterns:  Equilibrium  domain
patterns, Domain patterns connected with phase boundaries. (3 lectures)
Dynamic properties of domains walls in bulk: Switching properties, Ferroelectric & Piezoelectric
hysteresis  loop,  Switching  phenomena  and  Small-Signal  response:  Overview  of  switching
mechanisms, Domain wall motion, Theories of single wall motion, Defect pinning and creep of
domain  walls,  Switching  process  in  selected  materials,  Theory  and  Modelling  of  switching,
Rayleigh loops, Extrinsic contribution to small-signal dielectric signals. (11 lectures)
Relaxors, Aging and Fatigue properties in Ferroic materials. (4 lectures)
Multiferroic  materials:  Analogies  and  Differences  between  ferroelectrics  and  ferromagnets,
Applications, Scarcity of multiferroics, Magnetoelectric coupling. (6 lectures)
Measurement  techniques:  Ferroelectric  measurements,  Piezoelectric,  Pyroelectric  and
Multiferroics measurement techniques. (4 lectures)
1. Lines, M.E., Glass, A.M., Principles and Applications of Ferroelectrics, Clarendon Press,
2. Rabe, K. M., Ahn, C.H., Triscone, J.M., Physics of Ferroelectrics: A Modern Perspective,
Springer, Berlin, 2007.
3. Alexander, T.K., Cross, L.E., Fousek, J., Domains in ferroic crystals and thin films. Vol. 13.
New York, Springer, 2010.
1. Scott, J.F., Ferroelectric memories. Vol. 3. Springer Science & Business Media, 2000.
2. Newnham, R.E., Structure-property relations (Vol. 2). Springer Science & Business Media,
3. Wadhawan, V.K., Introduction to Ferroic Materials, Gordon and Breach, Amsterdam, 2000.
Advanced  Semiconductor  Materials  and
Department  Metallurgical  and  Materials  Engineering  and
L-T-P [C]  2-0-2 [3]
1.  To  develop  an  understanding  of  the  layered  and  non-layered  semiconductor  materials
synthesis/growth and characterization techniques used in the semiconductor industry.
The students will be able to:
1.  Understand  the  basics  of  advanced  semiconductor  materials  properties,  failure  analysis
methods, reliability, and characterization.
2. Fabricate semiconductor layered material devices and analyse their properties.
Fractal-1: Material Synthesis and Characterization
Introduction, Basics of semiconductor, Crystallographic properties of the semiconductors.
Growth  and  synthesis  of  semiconductor  materials  (2D  and  3D),  Defects  and  its
characterization and Advantages of 2D materials. (7 lectures)
Fractal-2: Device Characterization
Electrical  characterization  of  semiconductors:  Material  influenced  test  structure  based
electrical characterization methods like: two-probe/four-probe, Van der Pauw method, Hall-
effect measurements etc. (5 lectures)
Characterization of junctions and diodes: C-V measurements, Life-time measurement, Metal-
semiconductor: Schottky contacts, Barrier-height measurement, I-t techniques. (5 lectures)
Reliability and failure analysis: Gate oxide reliability measurement, Time-to-breakdown and
charge to breakdown and Failure analysis, Noise measurements and analysis. (4 lectures)
1)  Synthesis of semiconductor materials atomic sheets of Graphene Oxide (MT).
2)  Synthesis  of  semiconductor  elemental  sheets  of  Xenes  and  Transition  metal
dichalcogenides (TMDCs) (MT).
3)  Fabrication of p-n junction (Graphene/Si/SiO2, G/MoS2, etc.) (MT).
4)  Characterization of p-n junction (Graphene/Si/SiO2, G/MoS2, etc.) (MT).
5)  Electrical characterization of the fabricated devices (EE).
6)  Reliability and Failure analysis (EE).
7)  Material process (spectroscopic) and Quality control (MT).
8)  Tailoring the electrical, optical and Youngs’ modulus of the semiconducting materials
9)  Application of semiconductor in sensing (SERS/gas/strain) (MT/EE).
10)  Application of semiconductor in opto-electronics (MT/EE).
1.  Schroder,  D.K.,  Semiconductor  Material  and  Device  Characterization,  3rd  edition,  Wiley-
Interscience, New York, 2006.
2. Nicollian, E.H., Brews, J., MOS Physics and Technology, ISBN: 978-0-471-43079-7, 1982.
Online Course Material
1.  Haridoss,  P.,  Physics  of  Materials,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Metallurgy  &
Material Science, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
2. Parasuraman, S., Fundamentals of electronic materials and devices, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Metallurgy & Material Science, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,