Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Specialization 2: Functional Materials
Table 2: List of Specialization Core and Electives as per Senate approved document
List of core courses [8 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
1  MTL 4XXX: Nanomaterials for Hydrogen
1  MTL 4XXX: Fundamentals of Transmission
Production and Storage [3-0-0]
Electron Microscopy [3-0-0]
2  MTL7XXX: Functional Materials [3-0-0]
2  MTL 4XXX: Smart Ceramics and Composites
3  MTP7XXX Functional Materials
3  MTL7XXX: Symmetry, Structure and Tensor
4  MTL7XXX: Metamaterials [1-0-0]
4  MTL/EEL 7XXX: Advanced Semiconductors
Materials and Device Applications [2-0-2]
5  MTL 7XXX: Functional 2D Materials [2-0-2]
6  MTL 7XXX: Functional Materials for Sensors
and Actuators [2-0-2]
7  MTL/PHL 7XXX: Materials for Electrochemical
Energy Conversion and Storage [2-0-0]
8  CHL 4XXX: Organic Molecules, Complexes
and Polymers for Electronics and
PHL 7XXX: Solar Energy Technologies [3-0-2]
10  MEL 7XXX: MEMS & Microsystems Technology
11  CHL7XX0: Structure & Property for Polymers
12  CYL6XXX: Advanced Electrochemistry and
13  BBL7XX0: Tissue Engineering & Medical
devices and Implants [3-0-0]
14  MTD 7XXX: Project [0-0-6]/[0-0-8]/[0-0-12]
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for Functional
One 400 level 3 credit course
may be placed in this semester
SC  Nanomaterials for Hydrogen
Production and Storage
SC  Functional Materials Laboratory
SE  Specialization Elective
SE  Specialization Elective
Overload this semester 3-4 credits
Overload this semester 4-3 credits
Note: Students will also be required to complete any non-graded credits associated with a minor programme.
Overload this semester 3 credits
Dual Degree in Functional Materials
Table 4: Credit requirements for dual degree
Total (As per
31 (Compulsory + Elective)
Table 5: List of Dual Degree Programme Core (Excluding courses of Preparatory nature)
List of core courses [Credits]
Industry 4.0: Applications in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering [2-0-0] (MC)
Note: List of Specialization Core up to VIII Semester will be as per B.Tech. (Specialization) curriculum
List of Specialization Electives up to VIII Semester will be as per B.Tech. (Specialization) curriculum
List of Specialization Electives in IX th Semester will be as per M.Tech. Functional Materials Course Bouquet
Table 6a: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54-56 Graded and 4 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of core
courses for the specialization leading to dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.]
One 400 level 3 credit
course may be placed in
this semester for
SC   Nanomaterials for
Hydrogen Production and
Overload this semester 4 credits
SE   Specialization Elective
SE  Specialization Elective
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
MO  Open Elective
MP  M.Tech. Project
Non-graded PG courses
●  The total of semester VI+VII+VIII should be 20 graded credits and IX+X would be graded 34 credits
●  Graded credit requirements for M.Tech. is 54, whereas 2 Non-graded requirements.
●  Courses out of 11-12 Credits of Specialization done in Semester VI and Semester VII if not part of M.Tech.
Programme will be counted towards M.Tech. PE.
●  Students will be required to complete all MTech. Core courses except for preparatory courses. Students will be
required to take additional credit of Programme Elective against preparatory courses.
●  Clearly state courses of M.Tech. core/electives UG students cannot take due to significant overlap
with Minor/Specialization core/elective
Nanomaterials for Hydrogen Production and
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1. To develop an understanding of different forms of nanostructured materials.
2. Tuning of intrinsic properties of nanomaterials for hydrogen storage and generation.
The students will be able to understand the role of nanomaterials and nanodevices in hydrogen
energy production and storage.
Introduction:  Brief  overview  of  the  role  of  nanomaterials  in  hydrogen  energy  conversion  and
storage, Basics of Hydrogen economy (4 lectures)
Thermodynamics  of  hydrogen  storage:  Kinetics  and  Thermodynamics  of  hydrogen  storage,
Molecular hydrogen physisorption, Chemisorption of atomic hydrogen. (8 lectures)
Production  using  nanomaterials,  transportation,  conversion  and  Development  of  commercial
metal hydride electrodes. (4 lectures)
Natural  Process:  Hydrogen  production  from  biowaste  and  fossil  fuels,  Artificial  processes:
Thermochemical,  Electrochemical,  and  Photo-electrochemical,  Emerging  nanomaterials  for
hydrogen production: 2D Materials, nano-catalysts, artificial photosynthesis. (8 lectures)
Metal  hydride  nanomaterials  for  hydrogen  storage:  Hydrogen  storage  in  metal  hydrides,
Microcrystalline hydride materials. (6 lectures)
Non-metal  hydride  nanomaterials  for  hydrogen  storage:  carbon  hydrides:  Fullerenes,  Carbon
nanotubes, Graphene (6 lectures)
Hydrogen and Water in positive electrode materials, Manganese Dioxide electrodes in aqueous
systems, The “Nickel” Electrode: Structural aspects of the Ni(OH)2 and NiOOH phases. (6 lectures)
Nanotechnology, USA, 2009.
1119283655, Wiley, 2017.
Nalwa, H.S., Nanomaterials for Energy Storage Applications, Journal of Nanoscience and
Varin, R. A., Czujko, T., Wronski Z. S., Nanomaterials for Solid State Hydrogen Storage,
Sankir, M., Sankir, N. D.,Hydrogen Production Technologies, ISBN 9781119283652,
1.  Cheong,  K.Y.,  Impellizzeri,  G.,  Fraga,  M.  A.,  Emerging  Materials  for  Energy  Conversion  and
Storage, 1st Edition, Elsevier, 2018.
2. Şen, F., Khan, A., Asiri, A.M.A, Nanomaterials for Hydrogen Storage, Elsevier, 2020.
Online Course Materials
1.  Pal,  K.,  Selection  of  Nanomaterials  for  Energy  Harvesting  and  Storage  Application,  NPTEL
Institute  of  Technology  Roorkee,
Course  Material,  Mechanical  Engineering,
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech, B.Tech-M.Tech. Dual Degree, M.Tech
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1.  To  provide  the  students  with  a  detailed  understanding  (synthesis/growth,  structure,  and
properties) of the functional materials.
2. To develop an understanding of the usage of functional materials as a component of modern
The students will be able to:
1. Compare, correlate and investigate the different synthesis, characterization, and application of
exemplar functional materials.
2. Integrate the understanding of functional materials' properties and their applications.
Material synthesis and processing of functional materials: Bulk Synthesis: Solid state synthesis,
Sol-Gel  synthesis,  Thin-Film  synthesis:  Sputtering,  Molecular  beam  epitaxy,  CVD,  3D  printing,
electrospinning. (8 lectures)
Defects  in  solids:  Defect  types  and  dimensionality  effect  on  defects,  Characterization
(morphological and spectroscopic), Control of defects. (8 lectures)
Semiconductor materials: Band structure, Doping, Band-Gap engineering. (2 lectures)
Applications:  Beyond  Si  semiconductors,  GaN,  GaAs,  SiC,  Ga2O3,  LEDs,  and  photovoltaic  cells
(CdS, CIGS, CZTS, Perovskites and Organic solar cell materials). (6 lectures)
Materials  for  energy  applications:  Thermoelectric  materials:  ZT  value,  Band-Gap,  Conductivity
engineering, Oxide materials, Heusler alloys, Artificial and hierarchical materials, Peltier cooling,
Thermoelectric  generator,  Dielectric,  Piezoelectric,  Ferroelectric  materials  and  applications.  (8
Magnetic  materials  &  applications:  Magnetic  exchange  energy,  anisotropy  energy,  Magnetic
domains,  Application  of  soft  and  hard  magnetic  materials,  Magnetic  data  storage,  and
Superconductors in electronics. (6 lectures)
Optical materials: Optical lithography, and applications, Electro-optic materials. (4 lectures)
1. Askeland, D.R., Phule, P.P., Wright, W.J., The Science and Engineering of Materials, 6th edition,
Cengage Learning, 2010.
2.  Callister,  W.D.,  Rethwisch,  D.G.,  Materials  science  and  Engineering:  An  Introduction,  8th
edition, Wiley, 2010.
3. Mitchell, B.S., An Introduction to Materials Engineering and Science for Chemical and Materials
Engineers, 1st ed., Wiley- Interscience, 2003.
4. Kittel, C., Introduction to Solid State Physics, 8th edition, Wiley, 2005.
1. Kasap, S.O., Principles of Electronic Materials and Devices, 3rd edition, McGraw-Hill, 2006.
2. Raghavan, V., Materials Science & Engineering: A first course, 5th edition, PHI Learning, 2004.
Online Course Material
1. Haridoss, P., Physics of Materials, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Metallurgy & Material
Science, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
2.  Garg,  A.,  Electroceramics,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Material  Science  &
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,
Functional Materials Laboratory
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech, B.Tech-M.Tech. Dual Degree, M.Tech
1. To introduce different kinds of functional material synthesis (thin film and bulk) techniques,
as well as an insight into device fabrication.
2. Introduce different functional property measurement techniques and concomitant analysis.
The students will be able to:
1. Get first-hand knowledge of synthesizing functional materials and device fabrication.
2. Understand different types of measurement techniques and analyse the device performance.
Performance evaluation of capacitors by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy.
Performance evaluation of secondary batteries by electrochemical impedance
Fabrication and property evaluation of dielectric/ ferroelectric (BaTiO3/PZT) materials.
Electrode preparation (Thin-Film deposition) via spin coating.
Synthesis of 2D materials and their hybrids (e.g, graphene, MoS2).
Magnetic measurements (M-H hysteresis/ M vs T measurement).
Semiconductor characterization: Hall/ I-V measurements.
Optical Property measurements: Transmittance/ Photoluminescence/ Band-Gap.
Performance evaluation of alkaline primary cell/ lead-acid battery/ Li-ion batteries.
3D Printing of electronic material/bio-materials/energy materials.
1. Cheong, K.Y., Impellizzeri G., Fraga M. A., Emerging Materials for Energy Conversion and
Storage, 1st Edition, Elsevier, 2018.
2.  Banks,  C.,  E.,  Browson,  D.,  A.,  C.,  2D  Materials,  Characterization,  Production  and
Applications, CRC Press, 2017.
3.  Schroder,  D.K.,  Semiconductor  Material  and  Device  Characterization,  3rd  ed.,  Wiley-
Interscience, New York, 2006.
4. Venuvinod, P.K., Ma W., Rapid prototyping: laser-based and other technologies. Springer
Science & Business Media, 2013.
5. Gibson, I., Rosen, D., Stucker, B., Additive Manufacturing Technologies: Rapid Prototyping
to Direct Digital Manufacturing, Springer, New York, NY, 2015.
6. Kumar, L. J., Pandey, P.M., Wimpenny, D.I., eds. 3D printing and additive manufacturing
technologies. Singapore: Springer, 2019.
1.  Lab  manuals  and  study  materials  will  be  provided  for  Hall,  I-V  measurements,  M-H
hysteresis, M vs T measurement, spin coater, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and 3D
Online Course Material
1. Ramanathan, S., Chemistry and Biochemistry, IIT Madras,
2. Maiti, H.S., Department of Metallurgy and Material Science, IIT Kharagpur,
3. Bhat, K.N., Anathasuresh, G.K., Gopalakrishnan, S., Vinoy, K.J., Department of
Mechanical Engineering, IISc Bangalore,
4.  Ganguli, A.K., Department of Nanotechnology, IIT Delhi,
5. Banerji, P., Department of Metallurgy and Material Science, IIT Kharagpur.
6. Majumder, S.B., Material science Centre, IIT Kharagpur,
7. Kapil, S., Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Guwahati,
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech. Specialization, B.Tech.-M.Tech.
This course introduces the student to the field of metamaterials.
fabrication techniques of metamaterials.
The students will be exposed to the various application of metamaterials.
The  students  will  learn  fundamental  concepts  underlying  physical  properties  and
Introduction to metamaterials and Meta surfaces. (2 lectures)
Optical  and  mechanical  metamaterials,  Micro-/Nano-fabrication  methodologies,  and
Prospective applications. (3 lectures)
Sub-wavelength  waveguiding  and  focusing,  Super-resolution  imaging  and  nano-lithography
beyond  the  diffraction  limit  of  the  light,  Negative  refraction  and  permeability  and  Invisibility
cloaking. (5 lectures)
Plasmonic  metamaterials,  Enhanced  Raman  scattering,  Extraordinary  transmission,  Light-
trapping for solar cell. (4 lectures)
Francis Group, 2021.
Choudhury,  P.K.,  Metamaterials:  Technology  and  Applications,  CRC  Press,  Taylor  &
Cambridge University Press, 2020.
Simovski,  C.,    Tretyakov,  S.,  An  Introduction  to  Metamaterials  and  Nanophotonics,
Cui, T.J.,  Smith, D.,  Liu, R., Metamaterials: Theory, Design, and Applications, Springer
Fundamental of Transmission
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
To introduce the fundamentals of Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM).
Introduce computational techniques of TEM image analysis.
Simulate the electron diffraction and TEM micrographs.
Understand digital micrograph scripting for post-processing the electron micrograph.
The students will be able to:
Introduction  of  basics  of  TEM:  Basics  of  TEM  from  instrumental  and  theoretical  perspective,
Overview of electron matter interaction in TEM, Wave interference in TEM. (7 lectures)
Introduction of  various  imaging method in TEM: Basics of image formation in TEM, Contrast
transfer function, High-resolution TEM imaging (HRTEM) (7 lectures)
Scanning  transmission  electron  microscopy  imaging  (STEM),  Bright  field  imaging,  Dark  field
imaging, spectrum imaging (7 lectures)
Introduction  of  electron  diffraction  in  TEM:  Reciprocal  lattice,  Basics  theory  of  electron
diffraction  formation  in  TEM,  selected  area  electron  diffraction  (SAEDP),  Convergent  beam
electron  diffraction  (CBED),  Electron  diffraction  analysis  methods  for  material  science.  (7
Introduction  of  spectroscopic  method  in  TEM:  Basics  of  electron  energy  loss  spectroscopy
(EELS), Basics EELS analysis for material science (7 lectures)
Energy dispersive x-ray in TEM, basics of quantitative chemical analysis by EDS. (5 lectures)
TEM alignment: Basics HRTEM alignment, TEM sample preparation methods. (2 lectures)
1. Kirkland, E. J., Advanced computing in electron microscopy, Springer, 2020.
2. Landup, D., Data visualization in python with pandas and matplotlib, 2020.
3.  Pennycook  S.J.,  Nellist,  P.D.,  Scanning  Transmission  Electron  Microscopy:  Imaging  and
Analysis, Springer, New York, 2011.
Online Course Material
1. nanoHUB.org - Courses: Transmission Electron Microscopy
1.  Beazley, D., Jones, B.K., Python Cookbook: Recipes for Mastering Python 3 (English
Edition), O’Reilly media, 2013.
2. Williams, D.B., Carter, C.B, Transmission Electron Microscopy: A Textbook for Materials
Science, Springer, 2016.
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Smart Ceramics and Composites
1. Introduce the importance of smart ceramics and composites along with their structures and
2.  Enable to understand the design and manufacturing concepts of these materials for specific
The students are expected to:
1. Realize and appreciate the role of functionalities and functional material-based smart ceramics
2. Knowledge to extend the compositional and processing variables to enhance the properties of
smart ceramics and their composites.
Introduction: Definition and classification of smart ceramics and composites, Structures and their
effect on properties, Multifunctional materials. (5 lectures)
Ceramic smart Materials: Introduction, Synthesis of smart ceramic materials, Intelligent control
of phase assemblage. (4 lectures)
Ceramic  based  multifunctional  nanomaterials:  Overview  of  ceramic  based  nanomaterials,
Strategies  of  synthesis,  Other  ceramic  systems,  Porous  nanoceramic  materials,  Doping  of
nanoparticles for enhanced functionality. (5 lectures)
Bioceramics  for  clinical  applications:  Definition,  Classification,  Biocompatibility  and  biomedical
applications, Mesoporous ceramics as drug delivery system, Bone tissue regeneration.
Smart composites: Laminated composites, Mechanical response to impact and electromagnetic
loads. (4 lectures)
Design  and  characterization  of  magnetostrictive  composites:  Introduction,  Behaviour  of  high
magnetostriction  materials,  Coupling  between  magnetic  and  mechanical  properties,
Micromechanical analysis, Terfenol D-composite. (5 lectures)
Multifunctional  nanocomposites:  Carbon  nano  materials-based  nanocomposites,  Sensing
capability,  Structural  health  monitoring  and  Self-healing,  Solid  state  ceramic  fuel  cells  (solid
oxide fuel cells) and silicon manufacturing for solar cells. (5 lectures)
Active fibre composites: Micromechanics modelling, Fabrication, Characterization. (5 lectures)
Mechanics  and  Design  of  smart  composites:  Analytical  model  with  and  without  piezoelectric
additions, Manufacturing, characterization and applications. (4 lectures)
1. Schwartz, M., Smart Materials, CRC Press, Taylor and Francis Group, 2009.
2.  Mishra, A.K., Smart Ceramics-Preparation, Properties and Applications, Pan Stanford
1.  Vallet-Regi,  M.,  et  al.,  Biomedical  Applications  of  Mesoporous  Ceramics,  CRC  Press,  Taylor
and Francis Group, 2013.
2. Elhajjar et al., Smart Composites Mechanics and Design, LLC, Taylor and Francis Group, 2014.
Online Course Material
1.    Bhattacharya,  B.,  Smart  Materials and  Intelligent  System  Design,  IIT  Kanpur,  2018,
2. Bhat K. N. et al., Micro and Smart Systems, IISc Bangalore. NPTEL 2012,
Symmetry, Structure and Tensor
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech,  B.Tech-M.Tech.  Dual  Degree,
Linear Algebra and Matrix Mathematics, MATLAB/Mathematica
1. Introduce the concept of symmetry in crystal lattices, point groups, and space groups.
2.  Use  of  symmetry  in  the  tensor  representation  of  crystal  properties,  including  anisotropy,
representation surfaces, elasticity, and applications to piezoelectricity.
The students will be able to:
1. Learn how to calculate different thermodynamic properties of different materials.
2. Understand how crystalline anisotropy affects/governs the property anisotropy.
Introduction: Spherical trigonometry and Applications in crystallography. (5 lectures)
Crystal lattices: Direct lattice, Crystal systems, Bravais lattice. (2 lectures)
Point  groups: Stereographic  projection,  Proper  cubic  point  groups,  Improper  point  groups
(dihedral angle, inversion symmetry), Types of point groups: 2D and 3D lattices. (7 lectures)
Space groups: Enumeration of the  operations,  Different space groups  with specific materials
examples. (7 lectures)
Group  theory: Basic  Concepts,  Character  Tables,  Examples,  Symmetry  and  Lattice
Vibrations:  Mode of Vibrations, Jahn-Teller Effect. (7 lectures)
Tensor  properties  of  materials: Basic  tensorial  operations,  Transformation  of  axis,  Eulerian
angles,  Orthogonality  Neumann  principle,  Pseudo  tensors,  Symmetry  and  Mathematical
properties of tensors. (7 lectures)
Different  ordered  tensors:  2nd  order  (Stress-Strain,  Permittivity,  Permeability,  Thermal
Expansion), 3rd order (Piezoelectricity), 4th order (Elasticity Tensor). (7 lectures)
1.Newnham,  R.E.,  Structure-property  relations (Vol.  2).  Springer  Science  &  Business  Media,
2.  Nye,  J.F.,  Physical  properties  of  crystals:  their  representation  by  tensors  and  matrices.
Oxford university press, 1985.
1. Buerger, M.J., Elementary crystallography, John Wiley & Sons, 1956.
2. International Tables for Crystallography Volume A: Space-group symmetry, ISBN: 978-0-
Online Course Material
1. Wuensch, B., Symmetry, Structure, and Tensor Properties of Materials, DMSE MIT, MIT OCW,
Advanced  Semiconductors  Materials  and
Department  Metallurgical  and  Materials  Engineering  and
L-T-P [C]  2-0-2 [3]
B.Tech, B.Tech-M.Tech. Dual Degree, M.Tech
1.  To  develop  an  understanding  of  the  layered  and  non-layered  semiconductor  materials
synthesis/growth and characterization techniques used in the semiconductor industry.
The students will be able to:
1.  Understand  the  basics  of  advanced  semiconductor  materials  properties,  failure  analysis
methods, reliability, and characterization.
2. Fabricate semiconductor layered material devices and analyse their properties.
Fractal-1: Material Synthesis and Characterization
Introduction, Basics of semiconductor, Crystallographic properties of the semiconductors.
Growth and synthesis of semiconductor materials (2D and 3D), Defects and its characterization
and Advantages of 2D materials. (7 lectures)
Fractal-2: Device Characterization
Electrical  characterization  of  semiconductors:  Material  influenced  test  structure  based
electrical characterization methods like: two-probe/four-probe, Van der Pauw method, Hall-
effect measurements etc. (5 lectures)
Characterization of junctions and diodes: C-V measurements, Life-time measurement, Metal-
semiconductor: Schottky contacts, Barrier-height measurement, I-t techniques. (5 lectures)
Reliability and failure analysis: Gate  oxide reliability measurement, Time-to-breakdown and
charge to breakdown and Failure analysis, Noise measurements and analysis. (4 lectures)
Synthesis of semiconductor materials atomic sheets of Graphene Oxide (MT).
Synthesis  of  semiconductor  elemental  sheets  of  Xenes  and  Transition  metal
Fabrication of p-n junction (Graphene/Si/SiO2, G/MoS2, etc.) (MT).
Characterization of p-n junction (Graphene/Si/SiO2, G/MoS2, etc.) (MT).
Electrical characterization of the fabricated devices (EE).
Reliability and Failure analysis (EE).
Material process (spectroscopic) and Quality control (MT).
Tailoring the electrical, optical and Youngs’ modulus of the semiconducting materials
dichalcogenides (TMDCs) (MT).
Application of semiconductor in sensing (SERS/gas/strain) (MT/EE).
Application of semiconductor in opto-electronics (MT/EE).
1.  Schroder,  D.K.,  Semiconductor  Material  and  Device  Characterization,  3rd  edition,  Wiley-
Interscience, New York, 2006.
2. Nicollian, E.H., Brews, J., MOS Physics and Technology, ISBN: 978-0-471-43079-7, 1982.
Online Course Material
1.  Haridoss,  P.,  Physics  of  Materials,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Metallurgy  &
Material Science, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
2. Parasuraman, S., Fundamentals of electronic materials and devices, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Metallurgy & Material Science, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
Functional 2D Materials
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech,  B.Tech-M.Tech.  Dual  Degree,
heterostructures systems that are relevant to different scientific applications.
To introduce the emergent field of functional 2D materials.
Provides  a  comprehensive  overview  of  2D  materials  their  hybrids  and
Upon completion, students are expected to
To know the basics of 2D materials.
Van der Waal and Non- van der Waal materials hybrids and heterostructures.
Design and fabricate 2D Advanced Materials based devices.
Fractal-1: Fundamentals of 2D Materials
Introduction  of  functional  quantum  materials,  2D  family,  Electronic,  Magnetic,  Optical
properties of functional quantum materials, Dirac metals, Weyl fermions. (5 lectures)
2D  functional  quantum  materials  at  atomic  scale,  Topological  insulators,  Computation  of
functional  quantum  materials,  Investigation  of  defect  and
electronic  properties  of
Ohmic/Schottky contacts. (5 lectures)
Fundamental  and  properties  of  two-dimensional  materials  in  sensing:  Introduction,  Band
Alignment, Parameters of sensor performance. (4 lectures)
Fractal-2: Fabrication of Devices, Application and Challenges
Synthesis (top-down and bottom-up approach and challenges), Characterization, and transfer
of Van der Waals (graphene, boron nitride, Molybdenum disulphide, Tungsten Disulphide, Black
Phosphorus, etc.) atomic sheets, Microscopic characterization by TEM. (3 lectures)
Non-Van  der  Waals  Materials  (Borophene,  Hematene,  Plumbene,  MXene,  etc.)  their  Hybrids
(2D/1D, 2D/2D, 2D/3D), composites and heterostructures, Fabrication of 2D Material devices
and challenges. (3 lectures)
Application  of  2D  Materials  and  their  hybrids  as  well  as  heterostructures:  Introduction
(Graphene, Xenes, MXene, and Complex 2D  Materials) Opto-Electronics (LEDs), Gas Sensor,
Bio-Sensor,  Drug-Delivery,  Filtration/Desalination,  Photovoltaics,  Energy  Storage  and
Generation, Lubricants, Environmental Remediation. (6 lectures)
Challenges with 2D Materials hybrids/heterostructures and device fabrications. (2 lectures)
1) Synthesis of Van der Waals 2D material (e.g. Graphene, TMDCs) atomic sheets.
2) Characterization (morphological and spectroscopic) of the atomic sheets.
3) Fabrication of nano-devices (bio sensors, gas sensors, etc.).
4) Failure analysis and Quality control.
5) Synthesis of non-Van der Waals 2D material (e.g. Hematene, borophene, etc.) atomic
6) Characterization (morphological and spectroscopic) of the atomic sheets.
7) Fabrication of nano-devices (bio sensors, gas sensors, etc.).
8) Failure analysis and Quality control.
9) Synthesis of 2D hybrids and heterostructres (e.g. graphene/graphene oxide/reduced
graphene oxide/borophene/hematene/TMDCs, etc.) atomic sheets.
10) Characterization (morphological and spectroscopic) of the atomic sheets.
11) Failure analysis and Quality control.
1. Zettilli, N., Gubernatis, J.E., Lookman, T., Quantum Mechanics: Concepts and Applications,
2. Griffiths, D.J., Introduction to quantum mechanics, Prentice Hall International, 2004.
3. Banks, C., E., Browson, D.A.C., 2D Materials, Characterization, Production and Applications,
CRC Press, 2017.
1.  Ng,  L.W.T.,  Hu,  G.,  Howe,  R.C.T.,  Zhu,  X.,  Yang,  Z.,  Jones,  C.,  Hasan,  T.,  Printing  of
Graphene and Related 2D Materials: Technology, Formulation and Applications, Springer, 2019.
2. Errana, G., Metal Oxide Nanostructures as Gas Sensing Devices, CRC Press, 2012.
3. Avouris, P., Heinz, T.F., Low, T., 2D Materials Properties and Devices, Cambridge University
1. Paglione, J., Butch, N.P., Rodriguez, E. E., Fundamentals of Quantum Materials: A Practical
Guide to Synthesis and Exploration, World Scientific Pub Co Inc, 2021.
2. Heitmann, D., Quantum Materials, Lateral Semiconductor Nanostructures, Hybrid Systems
and Nanocrystals, Springer, 2010.
3.  Bartolomeo,  D.,  2D  Materials  and  Van  der  Waals  Heterostructures,  MDPI,  ISBN  978-3-
4.  Hywel,  M.,  Rout,  C.S.,  Late,  D.J.,  Late  Fundamentals  and  Sensing  Applications  of  2D
Materials, Elsevier, 2021.
Sensors and Actuators
B.Tech,  B.Tech-M.Tech.  Dual
1. To understand the basics of sensors, actuators materials, and their operating principle.
2. To explain the working of various types of electrochemical sensors and actuators.
The students will be able to:
1.  Apply  the  knowledge  for  the  selection  of  appropriate  materials  for  sensing,  design,  and  device
2. Understand the design and device fabrication challenges.
Fractal-1:  Sensor  Materials  and  its  Applications:  Introduction  of  sensors,  Basics  of  energy
transformation  and  differences  between  transducers,  Sensors  and  Actuators,  Principles  of  micro
sensors, basics of semiconducting metal oxide–based gas sensors. (7 lectures)
Conducting  polymers  sensor  materials,  mechanism  of  sensing,  properties  and  their  applications,
magnetic  nanoparticles  sensors,  gas  sensing  materials:  Transition  metal  oxides,  SiC,  2D  materials
their hybrids and heterostructures, Materials for Biosensing, FET based biosensors and luminescent
materials for biosensing. (7 Lectures)
Fractal-2:  Actuator  Materials  and  its  Applications:  Introduction  of  actuators  and  its  working
principle, Piezoelectric Actuators: Resonant and Non-Resonant actuation, Bimorphs, Figure of merit,
Group  III-V  nitrides  (GaN/AlN),  Electrochromic  and  Electroactive  Polymer  actuators:  Wet  and  Dry
Electroactive  polymer  actuators  (EAP)  actuators,  material  selection,  design  and  fabrication  of
actuators. (7 lectures)
Shape memory alloys (SMAs): Introduction of Shape memory alloy materials, design of SMAs, figure
of merit (FOM), Scaling laws, magnetic actuators: Magnetostriction, Magnetostrictive materials: giant
magnetostriction, Design and Control of magnetostrictive actuators, Scaling laws (7 lectures)
Synthesis of functional materials (graphene oxide, boron nitride) for application in gas sensing
Fabrication of gas sensor (graphene oxide/ other 2D materials) (MT).
Characterization using spectroscopic technique (UV-Visible) and Quality control (MT).
Synthesis of metal (gold/silver/glass substrate) nanoparticles for biosensing (MT).
Fabrication and characterization (Raman Spectroscopy) of biosensor (MT).
Characterization using spectroscopic technique (UV-Visible) and Quality control (MT).
Synthesis of PVDF for application in polymeric sensing (MT).
Characterization using spectroscopic technique (UV-Visible) and Quality control (MT).
Fabrication of polymer sensor (Universal Testing Machine) (MT).
Synthesis of carbonaceous material for electrochemical sensing (MT).
Fabrication of electrochemical sensor (Three-Electrode System) (MT).
Characterization using spectroscopic technique (UV-Visible) and Quality control (MT).
1.  Kloeck, B., Rooji, N.F., Mechanical Sensors in semiconductor Sensors, John Wiley NY 1994.
2.  Silva, D., Clarence W., Sensors and actuators: Engineering system instrumentation. CRC Press,
1.  Rupitsch,  Johann, S.,  Piezoelectric  Sensors  and  Actuators.  Springer-Verlag  Berlin  Heidelberg,
Online Course Material
1.  Pandya,  H.J.,  Department  of  Electrical  &  Electronic  Engineering  IISc  Bangalore  NPTEL  Course