Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
(Download this document and edit)
i) Details of approved Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Table 1: Summary of Specialization and Dual degree leading to Specialization offered by Dept/School/IDRP
MT, ME, CI
MT, ME, EE,
MT, ME, CS,
AI, EE, CH,
Name of Dual
B.Tech Specialization 1: Structural Materials
Table 2: List of Specialization Core and Electives as per Senate approved document
List of core courses [8 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
1  MTL 4XXX: Failure of Materials and
2  MTL7XXX: Plastic Deformation and
Microstructure Evolution [3-0-0]
MTL 4XXX: Creep and Superplastic
Deformation in Materials [3-0-0]
MTL 4XXX: Heat-Treatment of Metals and
3  MTL7XXX: Imperfections in Solids [1-
MTL 7XXX: Material Aspects in Additive
4  MTP7XXX: Structural Materials
MTL 7XXX: Thermo Mechanical Processing [3-
MTL 7XXX: Light Metals and Alloys [3-0-0]
MTL 7XXX: Processing of Polymer Matrix
MTL 4XXX: Fundamentals of Transmission
Electron Microscopy [3-0-0]
MEL4XXX: Principle of Biomechanics [3-0-0]
CI4XX0: Introduction to Structural Health
10  MEP7XX0 Smart Manufacturing [1-0-2]
CHL7XX0: Structure & Property for Polymers
12  MTD 7XXX: Project [0-0-6] /[0-0-8]/[0-0-12]
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for Structural
One 400 level 3 credit course
may be placed in this semester
Imperfections in Solids
SC  Failure of Materials and
Overload this semester 3-4 credits
SC  Structural Materials Laboratory
SE  Specialization Elective
SE  Specialization Elective
Plastic Deformation and
Overload this semester 4-3 credits
Note: Students will also be required to complete any non-graded credits associated with a minor programme.
Overload this semester 3 credits
Dual Degree in Materials Engineering, Transition through Specialization 1 (Structural Materials)
Table 4: Credit requirements for dual degree
Total (As per
31 (Compulsory + Elective)
Table 5: List of Dual Degree Programme Core (Excluding courses of Preparatory nature)
List of core courses [Credits]
Industry 4.0: Applications in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering [2-0-0] (MC)
Note: List of Specialization Core up to VIII Semester will be as per B.Tech. (Specialization) curriculum
List of Specialization Electives up to VIII Semester will be as per B.Tech. (Specialization) curriculum
List of Specialization Electives in IX th Semester will be as per Structural Materials Course Bouquet of
M.Tech.Materials Engineering Curriclum
List of Program Electives in IX Semester will be as per M.Tech. Functional Materials and Computational Materials
Engineering Course Bouquet
Table 6a: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54-56 Graded and 4 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of core
courses for the specialization leading to dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.]
One 400 level 3 credit
course may be placed in
this semester for
Imperfections in Solids
Failure of Materials and
Overload this semester 4 credits
SC  Structural Materials
SE   Specialization Elective
Overload this semester 3 credits
MO  Open Elective
MP  M.Tech. Project
Overload this semester 3 credits
Non-graded PG courses
Non-graded PG courses
●  The total of semester VI+VII+VIII should be 20 graded credits and IX+X would be graded 34 credits
●  Graded credit requirements for M.Tech. is 54, whereas 2 Non-graded requirements.
●  Courses out of 11-12 Credits of Specialization done in Semester VI and Semester VII if not part of M.Tech.
Programme will be counted towards M.Tech. PE.
●  Students will be required to complete all MTech. Core courses except for preparatory courses. Students will be
required to take additional credit of Programme Elective against preparatory courses.
●  Clearly state courses of M.Tech. core/electives UG students cannot take due to significant overlap
with Minor/Specialization core/elective
Imperfections in Solids
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech. Specialization, B.Tech.-M.Tech.
1. To introduce types of defects in materials and their roles in determining material properties
1. To be able to relate how imperfections in materials govern properties and material response
Introduction: Structural defects based on dimension, electronic defects, properties influenced
by defects (2 lecture)
Point  and  electronic  defects:  Intrinsic  and  extrinsic  defects,  point  defect  notations,  Brouwer
diagram, measurement of point defect concentration (5 lectures)
Extended  Defects:  misfit  dislocations,  interfaces,  coincident  site  lattice,  tilt  and  twist
boundaries, grain boundary dislocations,  vacancy diffusion along GBs, domain boundaries (7
1. Cai, W, Nix, W., (2016), Imperfections in Crystalline Solids, 1st Ed., Cambridge University
2. Hull, D, Bacon, D.J., (2011), Introduction to Dislocation, 5th Ed., Butterworth-Heinemann
1. Tilley, R., (2008), Defects in Solids, Wiley
2. Sutton, A.P, Balluffi, R.W., (2007), Interfaces in Crystalline Materials, Reprint edition, Oxford
Online Course Material
1.  Prof.  S.  Shekhar,  Defects  in  Crystalline  Solids  (Part-I),  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Indian
Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113104081
2.  Prof.  S.  Shekhar,  Defects  in  Crystalline  Solids  (Part-II),  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Indian
Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://archive.nptel.ac.in/courses/113/104/113104085/
Failure of Materials and Prevention
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
1.  To  introduce  methods  for  defining  and  evaluating  failure  of  structural  materials  and
components subjected to steady and time dependent multi-axial (3D) stresses/strains.
2.  To introduce materials selection strategies to prevent failure in design.
3.  To  be  able  to  apply  failure  theories  to  predict  failure  of  structural  materials  and
components subjected to various loading conditions.
4.  To be able to select materials to prevent failure of components.
Introduction: Review of processing-structure-property relation in materials, types of failure [2
The Design Process and Materials Data: Design tools and Materials data, Processes of obtaining
materials data, Materials databases [2 lectures]
Failure  Prediction:  Failure  Theories,  Yield  surface  and  normality,  Plastic  Stress-Strain
Relationships,  Griffith’s  crack  theory,  Strain  energy  release  rate,  Failure  modes  in  polymers
and  ceramics,  Fracture  toughness  of  engineering  materials,  Use  of  Fracture  Mechanics
Principles in Design [8 lectures]
Failure  Detection  via  NDT:  Visual  inspection,  Dye-penetration  technique,  surface  and
subsurface  crack  detection  through  eddy  current,  internal  crack  detection  via  ultrasonic
technique [4 lectures]
Application  of  Failure  Theories  under  Cyclic  Loading:  S-N  Diagram,  Cumulative  Fatigue
Damage, Spectrum Loading, Rainflow counting techniques, Local Strain Life Approach, Damage
tolerance and fatigue crack growth in design [6 Lectures]
Application  of  Failure  Theories  under  High  Temperature:  Creep  Mechanism  Maps,  High
Temperature  Fracture  modes,  Presentation  of  Engineering  Creep  data,  Stress-rupture  data,
Larson-Miller parameter, Design for Creep [6 lectures]
Material  Selection  for  Failure  Prevention:  Selection  criteria  for  materials,  Material  Property
Charts, property limits and material indices, Materials indices which include shape, Applications
of  Failure  theories  under  combined  loading  and  application  of  Granta  Edupack  for  Material
Selection, Case studies on applications to life analysis and design [14 lectures]
1.  Collins,  J.A.,  (1993),  Failure  of  Materials  in  Mechanical  Design,  2nd  Edition,  Wiley-
2.  Hertzberg, R.W., (2013), Deformation and Fracture Mechanics of Engineering Materials,
5th Edition, Wiley
3.  Ashby, M.F., (2016), Materials Selection in Mechanical Design, 5th Edition, Butterworth-
1.  Courtney, T. H., (2005), Mechanical Behaviour of Materials, 2nd Edition, Waveland
2.  Jones,  D.R.H.,  and  Ashby,M.F.,  (2011),  Engineering  Materials  1:  An  Introduction  to
Properties, Application and Design, 4th Edition, Butterworth-Heinemann
3.  Jones,  D.R.H.,  and  Ashby,M.F.,  (2012),  Engineering  Materials  2:  An  Introduction  to
Microstructure and Processing, 4th Edition, Butterworth-Heinemann
4.  Shigley, J. E., Mischke, C., Nisbett, K., and Richard, B., (2008), Mechanical Engineering
Design, McGraw Hill Education
5.  William T. Becker; Roch J. Shipley, Failure Analysis and Prevention, Volume 11, ASM
Online Course Material
1.  Bhattacharya, B., Materials Selection and Design, NPTEL Course Material, Department
of Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,
2.  Sen, I., Fracture, Fatigue and Failure of Materials, NPTEL Course Material, Department
of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur,
Creep and Superplastic Deformation
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
To provide the knowledge in deformation response of materials at elevated temperature
To study creep as a failure mode in materials
To introduce superplasticity phenomenon in materials
To understand high temperature deformation of materials and evaluate the constitutive
To understand the microstructural engineering required for attaining creep resistance in
To comprehend the mechanistic understanding of superplastic phenomenon
Deformation of materials at elevated temperature: stress-strain behavior, effect of strain rate,
effect  of  temperature,  constitutive  relationship,  strain  rate  sensitivity,  grain  size  and  stress
exponent, thermally activated deformation (15 lectures)
Creep in materials: Phenomenology of creep, the creep curve, microstructural aspects for creep
in metals and ceramics, mechanisms of creep, deformation mechanism map, power law break
down, cavitation during creep, Stress rupture and Creep testing methodology, Design against
creep (15 lectures)
Superplasticity in metals and ceramics: introduction to superplasticity, flow stress vs strain rate
sensitivity considerations and mechanism of superplasticity, activation energy for superplastic
deformation,  microstructural  aspects
in  superplasticity,  Failure  during  superplastic
deformation, superplastic forming (12 lectures)
1. Dieter G.E.,( 1986), Mechanical Metallurgy, 3rd Edition, McGraw Hill Book Company
2. Nieh, T.G., Wadsworth, J., Sherby, O.D., (1997) Superplasticity in Metals and Ceramics,
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
3. Polreer J.P., (1984) Creep of crystals, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
1.  Courtney,  T.  H.,  (2005),  Mechanical  Behaviour  of  Materials,  2nd  Edition,  Waveland  Press
2.  Kashyap, B.P., Arieli, A., Mukherjee, A.K., Microstructural aspects of superplasticity, (1985)
J. Mater. Sci., 20: 2661-2686.
3.  Langdon, T.G., (1991) Creep: Concise Encyclopaedia of Advanced Ceramic Materials, New
York, Pergamon Press
Online Course Material:
1. Gollapudi S., Creep deformation of Materials, NPTEL Course Material, School of Minerals,
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneshwar,
Heat Treatment of Metals and Alloys   Number
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Physical Metallurgy (MTL2015)
To understand the foundation of heat treatment processes affecting the microstructures.
To learn different types of furnaces used in heat treatments and heating mechanisms.
Heat transfer mechanisms in heat treatment processes and associated microstructures.
Concept behind the microstructure under  equilibrium and non-equilibrium cooling. To
acquaint with TTT and CCT diagrams and associated microstructure under different industrial
Significant  roles  of  microstructural  features  on  mechanical  properties  of  metals  and
Heat treatment process variables; Heating and cooling of steels for heat treatment; Formation
of austenite, Transformation of austenite to pearlite, bainite and martensite; Characteristics of
transformation products; Homogeneity of austenite; Austenite grain size, Determination and
importance of austenitic grain size [08 Lectures]
T-T-T-and  C-C-T  diagrams:  Factors  affecting  T-T-T  curves;  Prediction  of  T-T-T-and  C-C-T
diagrams; Heat treatment processes: different types of annealing, spheroidizing, normalzing,
tempering,  patenting,  austempering,  martempering,  sub-zero
Application of Thermo-Calc and DICTRA [11 Lectures]
Thermo-mechanical treatment of steels: Ausforming, Isoforming, Cryoforming; Heat removal
mechanisms;  Hardenability  of  steels;  Heat  treatment  defects,  Residual  stress  upon  heat
treatment, Industrial heat treatment practices [06 Lectures]
Surface heat treatments - Carburizing, Nitriding, Cyniding and Carbonitriding, Flame hardening,
Induction hardening, Laser hardening [04 Lectures]
Heat  treatment  of  some  steels:  IF  steel,  DP  steel,  TRIP  steel,  high  speed  steels,  maraging
steels, spring steels.  [04 Lectures]
Age  Hardening;  Heat  treatment  of  non-ferrous  metals  and  alloys  -  Aluminium  alloys,
Magnesium alloys, Copper alloys, Titanium alloys and Nickel alloys. [07 Lectures]
Practical considerations in heat treatment: Industrial Heat Treatment Processes, Types of
furnaces and furnace atmospheres, Cooling media [02 Lectures]
Rajan  TV,  Sharma,  CP  and  Sharma,  A.  (2011),  Heat  Treatment:  Principles  and
Krauss G. (1990), Steels - Heat Treatment and Processing Principles, ASM International,
Bhadeshia,H.K.D.H, Honycombe,R.W.K, (2017), Steels: Microstructures and Properties,
Techniques, 2nd edition, Prentice Hall India.
Materials Park, Ohio.
4th Edition, Butterworth-Heinemann
Thelning KE (1984), Steel and its Heat treatment, 2nd edition, Butterworth, London.
ASM, Metals Hand Book: Heat Treating (1990), Vol. 4, 9th Ed., Metals Parks, Ohio.
Fundamental of Transmission
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
To introduce the fundamentals of Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM).
Introduce computational techniques of TEM image analysis.
Simulate the electron diffraction and TEM micrographs.
Understand digital micrograph scripting for post-processing the electron micrograph.
The students will be able to:
Introduction  of  basics  of  TEM:  Basics  of  TEM  from  instrumental  and  theoretical  perspective,
Overview of electron matter interaction in TEM, Wave interference in TEM. (7 lectures)
Introduction of  various  imaging method in TEM: Basics of image formation in TEM, Contrast
transfer function, High-resolution TEM imaging (HRTEM) (7 lectures)
Scanning  transmission  electron  microscopy  imaging  (STEM),  Bright  field  imaging,  Dark  field
imaging, spectrum imaging (7 lectures)
Introduction  of  electron  diffraction  in  TEM:  Reciprocal  lattice,  Basics  theory  of  electron
diffraction  formation  in  TEM,  selected  area  electron  diffraction  (SAEDP),  Convergent  beam
electron diffraction (CBED), Electron diffraction analysis methods. (7 lectures)
Introduction  of  spectroscopic  method  in  TEM:  Basics  of  electron  energy  loss  spectroscopy
(EELS), Basics EELS analysis for material science (7 lectures)
Energy dispersive x-ray in TEM, basics of quantitative chemical analysis by EDS. (5 lectures)
TEM alignment: Basics HRTEM alignment, TEM sample preparation methods. (2 lectures)
1. Kirkland, E. J., Advanced computing in electron microscopy, Springer, 2020.
2. Landup, D., Data visualization in python with pandas and matplotlib, 2020.
3.  Pennycook  S.J.,  Nellist,  P.D.,  Scanning  Transmission  Electron  Microscopy:  Imaging  and
Analysis, Springer, New York, 2011.
Online Course Material
1. nanoHUB.org - Courses: Transmission Electron Microscopy
1.  Beazley, D., Jones, B.K., Python Cookbook: Recipes for Mastering Python 3 (English
Edition), O’Reilly media, 2013.
2. Williams, D.B., Carter, C.B, Transmission Electron Microscopy: A Textbook for Materials
Science, Springer, 2016.