Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Specialization 3: Computational Materials Engineering
Table 2: List of Specialization Core and Electives as per Senate approved document
List of core courses [8 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
1  MTL4XXX: Introduction to Dislocation
MTL7XXX: Modelling of Metallurgical
2  MTL7XXX: Modelling in Materials
7XXX: Machine Learning for Materials Design
3  Microstructure Image Processing [2-0-
4  MTP7XXX: Computational Materials
Engineering Laboratory [0-0-2]
MTL7XXX: Single and Multi-objective
Evolutionary and Nature Inspired Algorithms
MTL7XXX: Principles of Continuum Mechanics
MTL7XXX: Continuum Plasticity [3-0-0]
MTL7XXX: Crystal Plasticity and Its
CHLP4XX0: Process Control and AI
CHL4XXX0: Molecular Transport Phenomena
PHL7XXX: Computational Materials Science
10  MEL7XXX: Finite Element Methods in
11  MEL7XXX: Computational Fluid Dynamics and
Heat Transfer [3-0-0]
12  CHL7XX0: Data Analytics in Process Modelling
and Simulation [2-0-2]
13  CHL7XX0: Molecular Simulations [2-0-0]
14  MTL7XXX: Data visualization in Materials
15  MTD 7XXX: Project [0-0-6] /[0-0-8]/[0-0-12]
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for Computational
Materials Engineering Specialization
One 400 level 3 credit course
may be placed in this semester
Introduction to Dislocation
SC  Modelling in Materials
SC  Microstructure Image
Overload this semester 3-4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester 4-3 credits
Note: Students will also be required to complete any non-graded credits associated with a minor programme.
Dual Degree in Computational Materials Engineering
Table 4: Credit requirements for dual degree
Total (As per
31 (Compulsory + Elective)
Table 5: List of Dual Degree Programme Core
List of core courses [Credits]
Industry 4.0: Applications in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering [2-0-0] (MC)
Note: List of Specialization Core up to VIII Semester will be as per B.Tech. (Specialization) curriculum
List of Specialization Electives up to VIII Semester will be as per B.Tech. (Specialization) curriculum
List of Specialization Electives in IX th Semester will be as per M.Tech. Computational Materials Engineering Course
Table 6a: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54-56 Graded and 4 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of core
courses for the specialization leading to  dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.]
One 400 level 3 credit
course may be placed
in this semester for
Modelling in Materials
Overload this semester 4 credits
SC  Computational Materials
SE   Specialization Elective
SE  Specialization Elective
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
MO  Open Elective
MP  M.Tech. Project
Non-graded PG courses
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Introduction to Dislocation Dynamics  Number
Introduce basic concepts of discrete dislocation dynamics simulations
The student will be able to
Create a simulated system with various dislocation configurations.
Determine the properties associated with the dislocations by running simulations.
mechanism of dislocation motion, introduction to atomistic simulations (6 lectures)
Crystal dislocations, The burgers vector, Motion of a crystal dislocation, Atomistic
Static simulations: setting up initial configuration, boundary conditions, data analysis
and visualisation: Energy filtering and centro-symmetry deviation (6 lectures)
Dynamic simulations: Creation of dislocation through misfit at interfaces, stress control
and temperature control, extraction of dislocation velocity (6 lectures)
Periodic boundary conditions: Displacement field induced by a dislocation, dislocation
core energy, Peierls stress (6 lectures)
Free energy calculations: harmonic approximation, a Vacancy in the Dislocation Core,
beyond harmonic approximation (4 lectures)
Laboratory (Computer simulations):
1) An atomistic simulation of an edge and a screw dislocation in BCC tantalum
2) Simulation of a system containing vacancy–interstitial pair and data analysis
3) Simulation of a perfect grain boundary and data analysis
4) Simulation of dislocation glide motion at different stress values
5) Simulation a system with a screw dislocation dipole and estimation of the excess energy
associated with the dislocation dipole
6) Estimation of dislocation core energies
7) Estimation of a Peierls stress near dislocations
8) Compute the free energy of a silicon crystal containing a vacancy
1. Bulatov, Vasily, and Cai, Wei. Computer Simulations of Dislocations. United Kingdom, OUP
1. Cui, Yinan. The Investigation of Plastic Behavior by Discrete Dislocation Dynamics for Single
Crystal Pillar at Submicron Scale. Singapore: Springer Nature Singapore, 2016.
Modelling in Materials Engineering
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech., B.Tech.-M.Tech. Dual Degree,
2–0–0 [2], SC
1. Introduce first-principles calculations and molecular dynamics.
2. Introduce crystal plasticity and phase-field modelling techniques.
1. Able to use quantum and atomistic simulation tools
2. Awareness of modelling techniques at meso and macro-length scales.
First-principles calculations (7 lectures)
Introduction, Periodic Structures, Supercells, Electronic kinetic energy cut-off, Total Energy,
Geometry Optimization, Electronic Structure and Magnetic Properties, Calculations for
Surfaces, Defects in solids
Molecular dynamics simulations (7 lectures)
Introduction, Application of various distribution functions in amorphous and crystalline
materials, Study of Diffusion and activation energy barrier, Application of MD in studying the
kinetics of battery electrodes and electrolytes, Steered molecular dynamics: Theory and
Phase-Field Modelling (7 lectures)
Microstructure evolution, Continuum vs sharp interface description, The Ginzburg-Landau free
energy functional, Equilibrium interfaces and surface tension, Conserved and non-conserved
order parameters, Driving forces, fluxes, Spinodal decomposition in a binary alloy
Introduction to Crystal Plasticity (7 lectures)
Deformation gradient and finite strain, rotation and stretch, elastoplastic decomposition,
Flow rules, hardening rules, slip systems and resolved shear stress, Pole figures and
stereographic projection, Euler angles and orientation distribution, Phenomenological models,
dislocation based constitutive laws, geometrically necessary dislocations
1. Lee, J., Computational Materials Science: An Introduction, 2nd Edition, CRC Press 2016.
2. Sholl, D. S., and Steckel, J. A., Density Functional Theory: A Practical Introduction, 1st
Edition, Wiley, 2009.
3. Provatas, N., Elder, K., Phase-Field Methods in Materials Science and Engineering, John
Wiley & Sons, 2011.
4. Roters, F., Eisenlohr,P., Bieler, T., Raabe, D., Crystal Plasticity Finite Element Methods in
Materials Science and Engineering, WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 2010.
5. LeSar, Richard, Introduction to Computational Materials Science: Fundamentals to
Applications, Cambridge University Press, 2013.
1. Raabe, D., Computational Materials Science: The Simulation of Materials, Microstructures
and Properties, Wiley VCH, 1998.
2. Hull, D., and Bacon, D. J., Introduction to Dislocations, Butterworth-Heinemann (Elsevier),
5th Ed., 2011.
Online Course Materials
1. Gururajan, M.P., Phase field modeling: the materials science, mathematics and
computational aspects, Department of Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science, Indian
Institute of Technology Bombay,
2. MIT open courseware:  Gerbrand Ceder, and Nicola Marzari. 3.320 Atomistic Computer
Modeling of Materials (SMA 5107). Spring 2005. Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT
OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
Microstructure Image Processing
Department  Department of Metallurgical and Materials
B.Tech., B.Tech.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, M.Tech.
Core for UG
1. Introduce the emergent field of image processing for better understanding the microstructure
for material engineering.
The students are expected to have the ability to acquire basic knowledge and understanding of
image processing and their applications in metallurgy and materials engineering.
Image Filtering and Feature Extraction
Colour spaces, Frequency domain representation, convolution, Image transforms, noise removal,
restoration  of  degraded  images,  Texture  Features:  moments,  correlation,  frequency  domain,
wavelet transform, keypoints and line extraction, keypoint based features.
Image Segmentation and Image Registration
Region growing, Clustering, Mixture Models, graph partitioning, keypoint correspondence, image
registration as an optimization problem, 2D and 3D registration, multimodal registration
1. Gonzalez, R., Woods. R., Digital Image Processing, 4th Edition, Global Edition, 2017
2. Szeliski . R., Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications, 2nd Edition, Springer, 2022.
1. Cecen, A., Fast, T. & Kalidindi, S.R. Versatile algorithms for the computation of 2-point
spatial correlations in quantifying material structure. Integr Mater Manuf Innov 5, 1–15 (2016).
2. Kalidindi, S.R., Niezgoda, S.R. & Salem, A.A. Microstructure informatics using higher-order
statistics and efficient data-mining protocols. JOM 63, 34–41 (2011).
Computational Materials Engineering
Department  Department of Metallurgical and Materials
B.Tech., B.Tech.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, M.Tech.
1. To provide hands-on experience of using computer simulations for studying materials.
2. To provide experience in analysing the simulation results for understanding materials.
1. Familiarity with the advantages and limitations of computational tools available for studying
2.  Able  to  run  the  simulations  and  study  materials’  behaviour/properties  from  the  simulation
Course Content (Computer Simulations)Analysis:
1. Calculation of the electronic band structure and density of states in a semiconductor
2. Calculation of the electronic band structure and density of states in a metal
3. Calculate glass transition temp of polymer
4. Yield mechanism of an Au nanowire
5. Determination of the elastic stiffness tensor
6. Spinodal decomposition in a binary alloy
7. Modeling of grain growth:
8. Generation of synthetic 3D polycrystalline grain structure from Electron Backscatter
Diffraction (EBSD) data
9. Simulation of uniaxial compressive stress-strain response of a polycrystalline FCC single-phase
metal  based  on  strain  rate-independent  and  strain  rate-dependent  3D  Crystal  Plasticity
10. Materials data visualization
Edition, Wiley, 2009
Wiley & Sons, 2011
Provatas, N., Elder, K., Phase-Field Methods in Materials Science and Engineering, John
Sholl, D. S., and Steckel, J. A., Density Functional Theory: A Practical Introduction, 1st
Online Course Material
1.  Voorhees, P.W., Phase Field methods: From fundamentals to applications, Department of
Material Science and Engineering, Northwestern University,
Machine Learning for Materials
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech., B.Tech.-M.Tech. Dual Degree,
Introduce a selected set of Machine learning and Deep Learning techniques for
Introduce hands-on experience with some practical methods and techniques in
materials informatics for materials classification, regression, clustering, and adaptive
through a set of case studies pertaining to Materials Engineering.
Introduce hands-on experience in analyzing data and applying ML approaches
1.  To be able to apply different data-driven techniques for creating Materials Knowledge.
2.  To use machine learning tools for solving problems in materials design
Deep Learning Techniques:
Supervised Learning using deep networks: Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), Recurrent
Neural Networks (RNNs), Self-Supervised Learning, Few Shot Learning, adversarial Learning,
and Transformers. (14 lectures)
Unsupervised Learning using deep networks: Auto encoders, Deep Belief Networks (5
Ensemble Classifiers: Random Forests, Gradient Boosted Decision Trees (4 lectures)
Association Analysis: Mining association rules, Graph Neural Networks (5 lectures)
A deep-learning technique for phase identification using synthetic XRD powder
Physics-driven ML for catalysts design
Data-Driven Prediction of Interatomic Potentials
Automated Micrograph Analysis: Optical, SEM, TEM and EBSD analysis.
Data-Driven Approach for design and rapid screening of High Entropy and Amorphous
Materials Property Predictions Based on Data from Chemistry, Structure and
Data Driven Modelling for Defect prediction during Additive Manufacturing Process
Fatigue life prediction using ML
1. Pilania, G., Balachandran, P. V., Gubernatis, J. E., and Lookman, T., Data-Based Methods
for Materials Design and Discovery: Basic Ideas and General Methods, Morgan & Claypool
2. Machine Learning And Data Mining In Materials Science, Edited by Huber, N., Kalidindi, S.
R., Klusemann, B. and Cyron, C. J., Frontiers in Materials, 2020.
3. Mueller, T., Kusne, A.G. and Ramprasad, R., Machine Learning in Materials Science. In
Reviews in Computational Chemistry, Edited by Parrill, A.L., and Lipkowitz, K.B., John Wiley &
1. Materials Informatics: Methods, Tools, and Applications, Edited by Olexandr Isayev,
Alexander Tropsha, Stefano Curtarolo, John Wiley & Sons, 2019
2. Informatics for Materials Science and Engineering-Data-driven Discovery for Accelerated
Experimentation and Application, Edited by:  Krishna Rajan, Butterworth-Heinemann, 2013
Data Visualisation in Materials Modelling
Department  Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering   L-T-P [C]
B.Tech. (CME specialization), B.Tech.-M.Tech. Dual
1. Introduce the emergent field of data visualization for better understanding and processing of
scientific data for material engineering.
Understand key methods and libraries for scientific data visualization.
Understand the data handling and efficiently visualize the data in 2D and 3D.
Performing the fits to the data and quantify the quality of the fit.
Basics of data handling and visualization: Overview of python language, Data input and output,
Organisation  of  big  multidimensional  data  in  numpy  and  pandas,  and  efficient  data  format
conversion, Python IDE. (7 lectures)
Data visualization in Python for materials modelling: Data visualization in various python libraries,
2D  and  3D  data  visualization,  linear,  matrix  and  multidimensional  data  visualization,  Data
visualization of density of states, band structure, charge density, spectroscopic data, numerical
data fitting and its visualization in materials modelling (7 lectures)
1. Landup. D, Data visualization in python with pandas and matplotlib, 2020.
1. Beazley, D., Jones, B.K, Python Cookbook: Recipes for Mastering Python 3 (English Edition),
O’Reilly media, 2013.
Modelling of Metallurgical Processes
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech., B.Tech.-M.Tech. Dual Degree,
The Instructor will:
important process variables
Introduce methods for developing simple models of metallurgical processes considering
The models will be evaluated for their industrial adaptability
The students are expected to have the ability to:
control metallurgical processes
Relate the basic phenomena and process output through modelling
Apply the principles of  thermodynamics and transport phenomena to  understand and
thermochemistry (6 lectures)
thermochemistry,  Ellingham  diagram,
Process  metallurgy:  transport  phenomena,  reaction  kinetics,  rate  phenomena,  chemical
reaction kinetics, fluid flow, heat and mass transfer (12 lectures)
Metal-slag interactions: Thermo-physical properties of metals and slags, slag-metal equilibrium
calculations, application of slag capacity during metal refining (12 lectures)
Process phenomena: bubble formation, foaming, gas-liquid reactions, reactions between liquid
phases (10 lectures)
Process  control  in  metallurgical  processes:  iron  making,  converter  steel  making,  electric  arc
furnace, secondary steel making (12 lectures)
Academic Press, 1997.
Universities Press, 2014.
Sano  N.,  Lu  W.,  Riboud  P.,  Advanced  Physical  Chemistry  for  Process  Metallurgy,
Shamsuddin M., Physical Chemistry of Metallurgical Processes, John Wiley & Sons, 2016.
Roy, Sanat Kumar., Bose, Subir Kumar, Principles of Metallurgical Thermodynamics,
Mohanty, A. K., Rate Processes in Metallurgy, India: PHI Learning, 2009.
Ghosh, Sudipto., Ghosh, Ahindra, A Textbook Of Metallurgical Kinetics, India: PHI
Seetharaman S.S., Treatise on Process Metallurgy, Volume 1: Process Fundamentals,
Seetharaman  S.S.,  Treatise  on  Process  Metallurgy,  Volume  2:  Process  Phenomena,
Elsevier Ltd., 2014
Elsevier Ltd., 2014
Elsevier Ltd., 2014
Online Course Materials
1. Muzumdar, D., and Koria, S.C., Steel Making, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Material Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,
Seetharaman  S.S.,  Treatise  on  Process  Metallurgy,  Volume  3:  Industrial  Processes,
Evolutionary  and  Nature  Inspired
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech., B.Tech.-M.Tech. Dual Degree,
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce evolutionary algorithms for single and multi-objective optimization
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Carry out Multi-objective optimization using evolutionary algorithms
Historical perspective of Evolutionary Algorithms: the American and German schools of
thought. The scope of evolutionary algorithms and the advantages of a ‘non-calculus’
approach. (1 lecture)
The ‘Simple Genetic Algorithm’. The basic genetic operators: selection, crossover, mutation
and their variants. (1 lecture)
How Genetic Algorithm works: The Schemma Theorem. The problems of binary encoding:
Hamming Cliff. Remedial measures: Gray encoding, real encoding, (1 lecture)
Recent algorithms:  Differential Evolution, Particle Swarm Optimization, Ant Colony
optimization, Artificial Immune System Algorithms (2 lectures)
Fundamentals of Multi-objective Optimization. The concept of Pareto Optimality (2 lectures)
Major Evolutionary Multi-objective optimization Algorithms: SPEA, NSGAII, MOGA etc. (2
Genetic Programming (1 lecture)
Data-driven modeling, Surrogate or metamodeling. Modeling data with random noise: EvoNN,
BioGP and EvoDN2 algorithms. Commercial software like Kimmeme and ModeFrontier.  (4
Term Project on a problem of student’s choice.
1. Chakraborti Nirupam, Data-driven evolutionary modelling in materials technology, CRC
2. Datta, Shubhabrata,  Materials design using computational intelligence techniques. CRC
3. Deb K. Multi-objective optimization using evolutionary algorithms. John Wiley & Sons;
1. DE Golderg, Optimization & Machine Learning, Addison Wesley, 1989.
2. Melanie Mitchell, An introduction to genetic algorithms. MIT press, 1998.
3. Coello, Carlos A. Coello, and Gary B. Lamont. Applications of multi-objective evolutionary
algorithms. Vol. 1. World Scientific, 2004.
4. Ant Colony Optimization by Marco Dorigo and Thomas Stützle, MIT Press, 305 pp.
Crystal Plasticity and Its Applications  Number
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech., B.Tech.-M.Tech. Dual Degree,
1. The objective of this course is to learn different aspects of plasticity in relation to the
crystallographic orientation of metallic materials.
1. Fundamental understanding of the correlation between microstructural aspects and
2. Apply the fundamental concepts to use crystal plasticity modeling for a better
understanding of different microstructural evolution phenomena during deformation.
Introduction: Metallurgical fundamentals of plastic deformation, Concepts of stress and strain,
Introduction to continuum mechanics, Deformation gradient and deformation of line, Velocity
gradient, Elastoplastic decomposition, Stress analysis and Yield surfaces  (10 lectures)
Crystal  orientation  and  its  representation:  Description  of  orientation  and  misorientation,
Measurement techniques, Statistical representation of crystallographic texture (4 lectures)
Crystal plasticity modeling and numerical aspects:
Mean Field Models: Taylor Model, Grain Interaction Based Models, Viscoplastic Self consistent
Models, Full Field Models : crystal plasticity finite element method, fast Fourier transformation
method (10 lectures)
Work hardening models: Voce Model, extended Voce Model, Dislocation density based Kocks
Mecking Model.  Slip system interactions, latent hardening, Concepts of Taylor factor, Schmid
factor and Single Crystal Yield Locus, Treatment of twinning in crystal plasticity. (10 lectures)
Examples  of  applications:  Microscopic  and  Mesoscopic  Examples:  Plane  strain  deformation,
Simple shear deformation, Single-and bicrystal deformation, Recrystallization, Multiphase steel
(TRIP) deformation etc., Texture dependent properties and macroscopic examples such as deep
drawing  (8 lectures)
1. Roters, F., Eisenlohr, P., Bieler, T., Raabe, D., Crystal Plasticity Finite Element Methods in
Materials Science and Engineering, WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 2010.
2. Hosford, W. F., The mechanics of crystals and textured polycrystals, Oxford University
Press (USA), 1993.
1. R. J. Asaro and Vlado A. Lubarda, Mechanics of Solids and Materials, Cambridge University
2. A. F. Bower, Applied Mechanics of Solids, CRC Press, 2009.
3. A. S. Argone, Strengthening Mechanisms in Crystal Plasticity, Oxford University Press,
4. Raabe, D., Roters, F., Barlat, F., and Chen, L. Q. (Eds.)., Continuum scale simulation of
engineering materials: fundamentals-microstructures-process applications. John Wiley &
Online Course Material:
1. Biswas, S. and Toth, L. S., Crystallographic texture and crystal plasticity, GIAN-MHRD, IIT
2. Biswas, S., Texture in Materials, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113105103
3. Bag, S., Introduction to crystal elasticity and crystal plasticity,