About CoEs | School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science | IIT Jodhpur
What Are Centres of Excellence?
Centres of Excellence at SAIDE are dedicated hubs of transdisciplinary collaboration, focusing on specific areas of research and education. These centres provide a unique and distinguished capability to conduct high-quality fundamental and translational research, addressing pressing challenges and opportunities in today’s world.
Elaborating on Our Centres of Excellence
Brain Science and Applications: This CoE is at the forefront of exploring the science of intelligence, brain-machine interface, assistive technologies, and the application of AI and data science in understanding brain diseases and injuries. Through interdisciplinary research and cutting-edge technologies, we aim to unlock new insights into the complexities of the human brain.
Mathematical and Computational Economics: Our CoE in Mathematical and Computational Economics focuses on interdisciplinary research at the intersection of economics, mathematics, data science, and machine learning. We explore analytical and applied areas of economics, leveraging AI and data science to address real-world economic challenges and opportunities.
Centre of Excellence in Intelligent Infrastructure: This CoE is dedicated to advancing knowledge in sustainable and intelligent infrastructure systems. Through the application of AI and machine learning, big data analytics, and control and automation, we aim to develop innovative solutions for building resilient and efficient infrastructure networks.
Centre of Excellence in AI-based Precision Healthcare: Our CoE in AI-based Precision Healthcare focuses on developing AI-driven integrative frameworks for population and individual risk stratification, enabling early precision health interventions. We also spearhead the ‘Ayurtech’ program, combining AI, digital health, and multiomic technologies for evidence-based Ayurveda solutions.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 28 Jan 2026 - 08:18 PM