Asymmetric Catalysis and Continuous Flow Chemistry | Chemistry | IIT Jodhpur
Asymmetric Catalysis and Continuous Flow Chemistry
Dr. Nirmal K. Rana's research group aims to design and synthesize new organocatalysts and apply them in developing novel asymmetric methodologies mainly emphasizing on domino/cascade/sequential reactions for creating multiple stereocenters within a molecule. Additional targets are the exploration of dual organo-metal catalysis and biocatalysis. Our other aim is to develop new methodologies using continuous-flow systems using immobilized chiral catalysts for the production of fine chemicals, chiral drug molecules/intermediates with industrial implementation. We are also focused to utilize our methodologies as key steps for the synthesis of architecturally interesting and biologically active molecules. synthesis of architecturally interesting and biologically active molecules
Dr. Rohan D. Erande’s research group mainly focused on the total synthesis of biologically important Natural Product. We are highly interested in method development like metal catalysis, organocatalysis, Lewis acid catalysis and cascades of reactions to resolve the complexity of targeted natural products in access to achieve their total synthesis in efficient and step- and atom-economical way. An aiming to target potent drug molecules with new mechanisms of action, we are exploring the field of medicinal chemistry by collaboration with bio-laboratories and pharmaceutical companies towards drug discovery and development in India. synthesis of biologically important Natural Product
( Facilities Available in the Laboratory    Download file for the list) Laboratory Users: Student Name Details Research Topic Anshul jain Ph.D.(N. K. Rana) (July 2018-Present) Synthesis of benzoxazole Soniya Singh Ph.D.(N. K. Rana) (July 2019-Present) Asymmetric synthesis of dihydro benzofuran Ghanshyam Mali Ph.D.(R. D. Erande) (July 2019-Present) Lewis acid catalysis cascade approach to Natural product synthesis Asit Kumar M.Sc.(N. K. Rana) (July 2019-Present)  Application of pyridinium salt in synthesis of biologically active molecules Bharat Singh Patel M.Sc.(N. K. Rana) (July 2019-Present) Application of sulfur ylide in asymmetric synthesis
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 12 Mar 2026 - 03:42 PM