M.Tech and PhD
Program Course Curriculum
Department of Chemical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
M.Tech. in Department of Chemical Engineering
Course Structure: Semester wise distribution of credits
Cat.  Course Number, Course Title
Cat.  Course Number, Course Title
C  CHL7XX0  Advanced
C  CHL7XX0  Advanced
Methods  in  Chemical
C  CHL7XX0  Advanced Reaction
C  CHL7XX0  Advanced Transport
E  CHL7XX0  Elective-2
E  CHL7XX0  Elective-3
NG1 HSN7XX0  Non-Graded I
E  CHL7XX0  Elective-4
NG2 HSN7XX0  Non-Graded II
List of Electives
Course Number  Course Title
Advanced Wastewater Treatment
Computational Fluid Dynamics
Heterogeneous Catalysis and Catalytic Reactors
Modeling of atoms, molecules and surfaces
Nanocomposite Membrane Technology
Novel separation processes
Principles of Electrochemical Engineering
Process Safety & Hazards
Structure & Property for Polymers
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
S.No. Category Course Category Title
Total Courses  Total Credits
Ph.D. program in the Department of Chemical Engineering
Course (Credit) Requirements for PhD students
M.Tech.,  M.E.  or  M.Sc.  (Engineering)
in an Engineering discipline
M.Sc. degree  in a Science discipline
in  an  Engineering
Doctoral compulsory (DC)
●  Advanced Mathematical Methods in Chemical Engineering
●  Advanced Thermodynamics
●  Advanced Reaction Engineering
●  Advanced Transport Phenomena
4 Compulsory (Same as
M.Tech. Compulsory) +
4 Compulsory (Same as
M.Tech. Compulsory) +
PG elective list
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Detailed Course Contents
Advanced  Mathematical  Methods  in  Chemical
Structure (L-T-P [C])
To familiarize the students with techniques of solving mathematical equations relevant to process engineering
operations, and equip them with the underlying theoretical foundations of mathematical methods.
The students will be able to
solve linear and nonlinear algebraic equations, ordinary differential equations and partial differential
equations using analytical and numerical techniques.
analyse and comment on the solvability of single and system of simultaneous equations.
identify mathematical models in process operations, and map them to appropriate solution techniques for
solving and analyzing them.
Linear algebra and numerical analysis
-  Concept of linearity and operator algebra (2 lectures)
Linear vector spaces: Linear independence, basis, dimension, span, simultaneous algebraic equations, null
and range space (8 lectures)
Inner product spaces, norm and metric spaces, adjoint operators, orthonormalization (4 lectures)
-  Background and need for numerical analysis; review of numerical solutions of simultaneous linear and
non-linear algebraic equations (2 lectures)
-  Numerical solution of ODE-IVP’s including simultaneous equations, analysis of stability and convergence
-  Concept of discretization, numerical solution of ODE-BVP’s and PDE’s (2 lectures)
Solution of simultaneous autonomous linear equations, bifurcation and linear stability analysis (3 lectures)
Solution of non-autonomous equations (3 lectures)
Sturm-Liouville theory; Frobenius solution of equations with variable coefficients (3 lectures)
-  Classification of PDE’s; solution of PDE’s using separation of variables (4 lectures)
Techniques for solution of PDE’s with non-homogeneous boundary conditions (6 lectures)
1.  Pushpavanam S., Mathematical Methods in Chemical Engineering (1st Ed.), PHI Learning, New Delhi
2.  Logan D.J., Applied Partial Differential Equations (3rd Ed.), Springer International Publishing Switzerland
3.  Gupta S.K., Numerical Methods for Engineers (1st Ed.), New Age International (P) Ltd., New Delhi 1995.
1.  Davis M.E., Numerical Methods and Modeling for Chemical Engineers (1st Ed.), John Wiley and Sons,
New York 1984.
2.  Rice R.G., Do DD., Applied Mathematics and Modeling for Chemical Engineers (1st Ed.), John Wiley
and Sons, New York 1995.
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Structure (L-T-P [C])
To provide the students with knowledge and tools of classical and molecular thermodynamics with
applications to chemical systems, and develop the importance and appreciation of the two approaches to
the study of thermodynamics.
The students will be able to
carry out thermodynamic analysis of chemical systems to develop structure-property relationships.
establish correspondence between bulk and molecular properties of materials.
carry out thermodynamic calculations for multiphase and multicomponent systems.
-  Review of classical thermodynamics, laws of thermodynamics, ideality in gases, non-ideal gas laws (2
-  Multicomponent thermodynamics, chemical potential, Maxwell’s relations for multicomponent
systems (3 lectures)
-  Non-ideal gas and liquid mixtures, fugacity and activity, UNIFAC and UNIQUAC models for activity
coefficient (6 lectures)
-  Multiphase systems, analysis of stability of phases, two-phase and three-phase diagrams, multiphase-
multicomponent systems, critical phenomena (6 lectures)
Molecular and statistical thermodynamics
Fundamentals of statistical mechanics, statistical origins of second law of thermodynamics, Boltzmann
entropy equation, ensembles, partition function, thermodynamic relations in different ensembles (6
Time-dependent and time-independent Schroedinger equation, solution of time-independent
Schroedinger equation under various external potentials (4 lectures)
-  Molecular partition function, determination of molecular energies with different degrees of freedom,
correspondence with classical properties, reaction equilibrium and mixture properties (6 lectures)
Kinetic theory of gases, mean free path, average speed calculation, random walk and diffusion,
calculation of transport properties and introduction to non-equilibrium thermodynamics; molecular
simulation techniques  (6 lectures)
Sandler S., Chemical, Biochemical, and Engineering Thermodynamics (5th Ed.), Wiely and Sons, New
2.  McQuarrie D.A., Statistical Mechanics (1st Ed.), Viva Books Pvt. Ltd.
1.  Tester J.W., Modell M., Thermodynamics and Its Applications (3rd Ed.), Prentice Hall PTR, New
2.  Callen H., Thermodynamics and an Introduction to Thermostatistics (2nd Ed.), John Wiely and Sons,
New York 1991.
3.  Denbigh K.G., The principles of chemical equilibrium: With Applications in Chemistry and Chemical
Engineering (4th Ed.) Cambridge University Press, 1981
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Advanced Reaction Engineering
M.Tech., Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The Instructor will:
Impart knowledge of hydrodynamics and transport effects in multiphase reactors, to learn lower order
models for prediction of their performance.
Introduce industrial reactors,
Provide methodology to design multiphase reactors for a few specific applications.
The students are expected to have the ability to
In-depth understanding of hydrodynamics and transport effects in multiphase Reactors.
-  Design multiphase reactors.
Reaction kinetics and ideal reactors: Review of reaction kinetics and ideal reactors, catalytic reactions, non-catalytic
reactions (3 lectures)
Non-ideal  reactors:  Principles  of  non-ideal  flow,  central  volume  principle  and  RTD  theorems,  data  analysis  and
interpretation; Models for non-ideal flow patterns, tanks in-series (8 lectures)
Non-isothermal reactor design: Energy balance for non-isothermal reactor, design of adiabatic reactors, impact on
equilibrium  conversion,  design  of  tubular  reactor  with  heat  exchanger,  mixed  flow  reactor  with  heat  effect,
multiple steady state (4 lectures)
Reaction  Stability  Analysis:  Application  of  conformal mapping  for  identification of  unique  steady  state  and  the
criteria for the same; linear stability analysis. (3 lectures)
Fluid-Solid Non-Catalytic Reactions: Progressive conversion model, Shrinking core model, Gas film diffusion control,
Ash layer diffusion control, Surface reaction control (3 Lectures)
Fluid-Solid Catalytic Reactions: Introduction to the basics of solid catalysts, Steps in catalytic reactions, Derivation
of rate law for heterogeneous reaction, External mass transport limitations, Thiele Modulus, Effectiveness factor,
Falsified Kinetics (6 Lectures)
Advanced Reactor Analysis:
Packed  Bed  Reactor:  Classification  of  reactor  models,  Graphical  design  of  non-isothermal  reactor,  pseudo
homogenous models for reactor design (3 lectures)
Fluidized Bed Reactor: Introduction, Regimes of fluidized bed reactor, parameters for reactor design, models for
reactor design, Kuni Levenspiel Model (4 lectures)
Slurry Bed and Trickle Bed Reactor: Different regimes of fluid flow, mass transfer coefficient, slurry bed models,
trickle bed models (3 lectures)
Membrane Reactors: Types, transport mechanism, case study for H2 production (2 lectures)
2.  Doraiswamy, L. K. and D. Uner, 2013, Chemical Reaction Engineering: Beyond the Fundamentals, CRC
Froment, G. F., K. B. Bischoff, 1990, Chemical Reactor Analysis and Design, John Wiley.
3.  J.M. Smith: 1981, Chemical Engineering Kinetics, McGraw Hill, Third Edition.
1.  Carberry, J. J., Varma, A., 1986, Chemical Reaction and Reactor Engineering,
Online Course Material
1.  Shankar, H.S., Advanced Chemical Reaction Engineering, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Bombay, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/101/103101001/
Viswanathan, G.A., Chemical Reaction Engineering II, NPTEL Course Material
Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT, Bombay, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/101/103101008/
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Advanced Transport Phenomena
The instructor will:
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Provide in-depth understanding of processes involving mass, energy, and momentum transport.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
-  Understand the fundamental aspects of transport phenomena at advanced level.
-  Develop an understanding and pursue graduate research in this area
Introduction: Review of fluid kinematics, Control Volumes, Reynolds transport (4 lectures)
Conservation Principles and constitutive laws: Mass, Momentum, Energy, Entropy; Phase interface conditions,
Solutions methods for equations of change, steady and unsteady fluid flow, Creeping flow, Lubrication
approximation, Boundary layer theorem (12 lectures)
Coupled transport processes: Steady and Unsteady states phenomena, Forced convection heat and mass
transport in confined/unconfined laminar flows, low Peclet and high Peclet approximations, buoyancy driven
flows, Multi-component energy and mass Transport. (12 lectures)
Turbulence modelling: Characteristics of turbulent flows, length and time scales, energy cascade, Reynolds
averaged transport equations, Phenomenological models, Kolmogorov hypotheses, universality and turbulence
spectra (10 lectures)
Transport phenomena in large-scale and small-scale systems: chemical reactors, micro-fluidic devices (4 lectures)
1.  Deen W. M., 1998, Analysis of Transport Phenomena, Oxford University Press, New York.
2.  Bird. R. B., Stewart, W. E. and Lightfoot, E. N., 2006, Transport Phenomena, 2nd edition, John Wiley &
1.  Slattery J.C., 1999, Advanced Transport Phenomena, Cambridge University Press.
2.  Leal  L. G., 2010.  Advanced  Transport  Phenomena:  Fluid  mechanics  and  convective  transport  processes,
Cambrige University Pres.
3.  Pope S. B., 2000, Turbulent Flows, Cambridge University Press.
4.  Belfore, L. A., 2003, Transport Phenomena for Chemical Reactor Design, John Wiley & Sons.
5.  Ramachandran, P. A. 2014. "Advanced Transport Phenomena", Cambridge University Press.
Online Course Material
1.  R. Nagarajan, Advanced Transport Phenomena, NPTEL Course Material, Chemical Engineering, IIT Madras,
2.  V. Kumaran, Fundamentals of Transport Processes, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemical
Engineering, IIsc Bangalore, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/108/103108099/
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Advanced Wastewater Treatment
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
The instructor will:
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Impart comprehensive knowledge of industrial and municipal wastewater.
Discuss mechanism and methodologies for wastewater treatment.
Discuss case studies
The students are expected to have the:
-  Comprehensive knowledge of the wastewater treatment.
Knowledge of advanced methodologies such as wastewater management, recycle and reuse.
Introduction: Wastewater engineering: an overview, characterisation of wastewater and monitoring of industrial
and municipal wastewater, emerging contaminants, environmental impacts of wastewater constituents. (4 lectures)
Conventional Water/ Wastewater Treatment: Existing unit operations and processes, basic philosophy of water and
wastewater  treatment  plants;  physio-chemical  treatment  methods:  (i)  Screening,  (ii)  conventional  filtration,  (iii)
coagulation, (iv) flocculation, (v) floatation, (vi) Clari-flocculation (vii) sedimentation, (viii) sand filtration, etc. (10
Aerobic  and  Anaerobic  Suspended  and  Attached  Growth  Wastewater  Treatment  Processes:  Aerated  lagoon,
activated  sludge  systems,  trickling  filter,  sequential  batch  reactor,  fluidized  bed  bioreactors,  Up-flow  Anaerobic
Sludge Blanket (UASB) and hybrid Up-flow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) reactors. (8 lectures)
Advanced  Treatment  Processes:  Membrane  Filtration,  microfiltration,  ultrafiltration,  nanofiltration,  reverse
osmosis, and electrodialysis; wet air oxidation, adsorption, and ion exchange; wet-land and root-zone treatment of
industrial and municipal wastes; design of sludge drying beds, thermal and biological processes for sludge and land
fillings. Membrane reactors, new technologies for wastewater disinfection. (10 lectures)
Water  Recycling  and  Reuse:  Different  unit  operations  for  water  recycling  depending  on  end  use,  energy
considerations, recovery of valuables from wastewater, zero liquid discharge (ZLD). (7 lectures).
Burton  F.L.,  Tchobanoglous  G.,  Stensel  H.D.,  2017, Waste  Water Engineering Treatment  and  Reuse,  4th
2.  Arceivala S.J. and Asolekar S.R., 2007, Wastewater Treatment for Pollution Control and Reuse, 3rd Ed., Tata
1.  Henze M., van-Loosdrecht M.C.M., Ekama G.A. and Brdjanovic D., 2008, Biological Wastewater Treatment:
Principles, Modelling and Design, IWA publishing.
2.  Sincero A.P. and Sincero G.A., 1996, Environmental Engineering – A Design Approach, Prentice-Hall.
3.  Tewari P.K., 2020, Advanced Water Treatment, CRC Press, Taylor and Francis Group (USA)
Online Course Material
1.  Tiwari M K, Wastewater treatment and recycling, NPTEL course material, Department of Civil Engineering,
IIT Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105105178/
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
basics of chemical engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The instructor will:
Impart knowledge of modern methods of analyzing chemical data.
The students are expected to have the:
-  Comprehensive knowledge of the modern methods of reducing and analyzing chemical data.
Prelude to chemometrics: Introduction and history of Chemometrics, factorial analysis; reverse, surface and mixture
design; correlograms and time series analysis; sequential methods, Pattern recognition. (6 lectures)
Calibration:  introduction  to  multivariable  calibration,  selectivity  problems,  statistical  problems  in  calibration,
Univariate calibration, multiple linear and principal components regression, model validation, outlier detection. (6
Evolutionary signals and process analysis in chemical plants: exploratory data analysis and processing, determining
composition, resolution pre-processing, composition of sequential data, screening. (6 lectures)
Derivatives  in  Spectroscopy:  Theoretical  and  computed  derivatives,  derivative  approximation,  calibrating  with
derivatives,  spectroscopic  monitoring  of  reactions,  kinetics  and  multivariable  model,  online  spectroscopy.  (6
General Data Analysis: simple analysis of variance and experimental design (one-way, two-way with and without
replicates, randomized and blocked designs). (6 lectures)
Computational methods: control structures for selection and iteration, functions, array data structure, numerical
methods for data analysis. (6 lectures)
Machine  learning  in  Chemical  plants:  Introduction,  basics  of  decision  trees,  combining  multiple  learner,
reinforcement learning, experimental design and analysis. (6 lectures)
1.  Richard G. Brereton, 2003, Chemometrics: Data Analysis for the Laboratory and Chemical Plant, Wiley
1.  Harald Martens, Tormod Næs, 1989, Multivariate Calibration, John Wiley & Sons.
2.  Howard Mark, Jerry Workman, Jr, 2018, Chemometrics in Spectroscopy, Elsevier Academic Press.
3.  Richard G. Brereton, 2007, Applied Chemometrics for Scientists, John Wiley & Sons.
4.  Ethem Alpaydin, 2004, Introduction to Machine Learning, MIT Press.
5.  Vandeginste,  B.G.M.,  Massart,  D.L.,  Buydens,  L.M.C.,  Jong,  de  D.,  Lewi,  P.J.,  Smeyers-  Verbeke,  J.,  1998,
Handbook of Chemometrics and Qualimetrics: Part B, Elsevier.
6.  Kreyszig, Erwin, 2014, Advanced Engineering Mathematics, John Wiley and Sons, 10th Edition.
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Computational Fluid Dynamics
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The Instructor will:
Impart knowledge about various computational methods of fluid flow and heat transfer.
Provide insight to design and simulate the hydrodynamics and multi-physics systems.
The students are expected to have the ability to
In-depth understanding of numerical methods for solution of partial differential equations of fluid flow and
-  Acquire knowledge of grid generation, processing and applications of CFD.
Introduction:  Fundamental  principles  of  conservation,  Reynolds  transport  theorem,  conservation  of  mass,
conservation of linear momentum: Navier-Stokes equations, conservation of energy, Mathematical classification of
partial differential equations, physical, boundary conditions. (8  lectures)
Finite  Difference  Method  (FDM):  Discretization  of  ODE  and  PDE,  approximation  for  first,  second  and  mixed
derivatives, implementation of boundary conditions, discretization errors, grid generation, uniform vs non-uniform
grids, Discretization of unsteady diffusion problems: Explicit, Implicit and Crank-Nicolson’s algorithm; stability of
solutions, stream function - vorticity approach, Poisson equation (12 lectures)
Finite Volume Method (FVM): Discretization methods, approximations of surface integrals and volume integrals,
Modelling of Convection- Diffusion Problems: One dimensional convection-diffusion problem: Central difference
scheme; Discretization  based on  analytical  approach (exponential scheme);  Hybrid  and  power  law  discretization
techniques; Higher order schemes (QUICK algorithm) (10  lectures)
Flow modeling: Discretization of incompressible flow equations; Pressure based algorithm: SIMPLE, SIMPLER etc;
Unstructured grids; Introduction to turbulence modeling; Large Eddy Simulation (LES); Direct Numerical Simulation
(DNS) (9 lectures)
1.  Anderson J.D., 1995, Computational Fluid Dynamics, McGraw Hill.
3.  Patankar, S. . Numerical Heat Transfer and Fluid Flow. Mcgraw Hill, 2017
Ghoshdastidar P.S., 1998, Computer Simulation of Flow and Heat Transfer, Tata McGraw Hill.
1.  Fletcher  C.A.J.,  1998,  Computational  Techniques  for  Fluid  Dynamics,  Vol.  1:  Fundamental  and  General
2.  Fletcher C.A.J., Computational Techniques for Fluid Dynamics, 1998, Vol. 2: Specific Techniques for Different
Flow Categories, Springer-Verlag.
Ferziger J.H. and Peric M., 2002, Computational Methods for Fluid Dynamics, 3rd Ed., Springer
Online Course Material
1.  Jayanti, S., Computational Fluid Dynamics, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
The Instructor will:
Heterogeneous Catalysis and Catalytic Reactors
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Basic knowledge of Chemical Kinetics
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Impart knowledge about the basic concepts, detailed structures, preparation methods and reactivities of
solid catalysts, its properties and relationship between the structures and reactivities.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
-  Understand and gain knowledge of the detailed structures, preparation methods and reactivities of solid
catalysts, its properties and relationship between the structures and reactivities.
Introduction to basic concepts (2 lectures)
Catalysis: Acid-base catalysis, application of catalyst functionality concepts for control of reaction selectivity and
kinetic models, Properties of catalysts, reaction selectivity and kinetic models (10 lectures)
Steps  in  catalytic  reaction:  Adsorption,  Kinetic  models,  intraparticle  transport  process,  Selection  and  design  of
catalysts, Preparation and characterization of catalysts, Catalyst deactivation, various deactivation models, Optimal
distribution of catalyst in a pellet (14 lectures)
Zeolites: Preparation and characterization of various Zeolite catalysts and their application (4 lectures)
Commercial  Reactors  and  catalysts:  Adiabatic,  fluidized  bed,  trickle  bed,  slurry;  industrially  important  catalysts,
Environmental catalysis (8 lectures)
Design of Catalytic Reactors for gas and two phase systems, Design of polymeric reactors. (4 lectures)
1.  Sharma M.M. and Doraiswamy, Heterogeneous Reactions, Vol 1 and Vol II
2.  Thomas, J.M., Thomas W.J., Principles and practice of heterogeneous Catalysis.
I. Chorkendorff, J.W Niemantsverdriet., Concept of Modern Catalysis and Kinetics, 3rd Edition, Wiley VCH
Bruce Gates , Catalytic Chemistry.
Morbidelli and Verma , Optimal distribution of catalyst in a pellet.
3.  Ford M.E. and Marcel Dekker, Catalysis of Organic reactions.
Online Course Material
Pant,  K.K.,  Heterogeneous  Catalysis  and  Catalytic  Processes,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Chemical Engineering, IIT Delhi, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/102/103102012/
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
The Instructor will:
Modelling of Atoms, Molecules and Surfaces
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Basic knowledge of Chemical Kinetics
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Provide background on various forms of Intermolecular and Molecule-Surface interactions.
The students are expected to:
-  Gain fundamental understanding on the molecular nature of systems and surfaces.
Learn about the importance of intermolecular forces in molecular modeling and simulations in chemical
and allied engineering.
Introduction: Four Forces of Nature, Early Scientific Period (1 Lecture), First Phenomenological Theories, Modern
View of origin of Intermolecular Forces (2 Lectures).
Forces  Between  Atoms  and  Molecules,  Principle  and  Concepts: Some Thermodynamic  Aspects  of  Intermolecular
Forces (3 Lectures), Covalent and Coulomb Interactions (3 Lectures),
Interactions Involving Polar Molecules, Interactions Involving Polarisation of Molecules (5 Lectures), van der Waals
Forces  (3  Lectures),  Repulsive  Forces,  Total  Pair  Potentials  (3  Lectures),  Hydrogen  Bonding,  Hydrophobic  and
Hydrophilic Interactions (2 Lectures).
Forces Between Particles and Surfaces: Concepts of Intermolecular and Interparticle Forces (2 Lectures), Contrast
Between Intermolecular, Interparticle and Intersurface Forces (3 Lectures), van der Waals Forces Between Surfaces
(2 Lectures), Electrostatic Forces Between Surfaces in Liquids (5 Lectures), Solvation, Structural and Hydration Forces
(3 Lectures), Steric and Fluctuation Forces (3 Lectures), Adhesion (2 Lectures).
J. N. Israelachvili, 2003, Intermolecular and Surface Forces, 2nd Edition, Academic Press.
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Structure (L-T-P [C])
To impart theoretical understanding and working solutions for modelling and simulation of molecular systems,
and to be able to relate molecular structure and properties to bulk observables.
The students will be able to
-  model molecular systems with appropriate details needed for relevant simulation techniques.
-  make appropriate choices of simulation techniques to suit the molecular system and the properties to be
-  develop theoretical understanding and carry out elementary simulations based on molecular dynamics
simulations, Monte-Carlo simulations and density functional theory calculations.
-  Description of molecular systems, technique-appropriate system description of molecular systems (1
-  Overview of statistical mechanics, partition function and property estimation in different ensembles (2
Molecular dynamic simulations
Force-field description of molecular systems, coarse grain modelling, reactive force-fields (2 lectures)
-  Algorithms for dynamical evolution of molecular systems, thermo- and barostats (4 lectures)
-  Approaches to calculation of equilibrium and non-equilibrium transport properties, chemical potential
and time-correlation and radial distribution functions (3 lectures)
-  Analysis of data from molecular dynamics simulations with examples and case studies, including but not
limited to, separation processes, adsorption, gas-gas separation, molecular sieves and membrane
separation, protein simulations (3 lectures)
Elementary statistical thermodynamics, bulk property estimation from partition function (3 lectures)
-  Generation of microstates and identification of Monte-Carlo moves for different molecular systems,
averaging of properties in different ensembles, Metropolis algorithm, enhanced sampling techniques (4
-  Average techniques, convergence and estimation of error with sampling (2 lectures)
-  Analysis of data from Monte-Carlo simulations with examples and case studies, including but not limited
to, nanotechnology, nanocrystals, defects, condensed matter simulations, applications to the analysis of
novel materials (3 lectures)
Density functional theory calculations
Introductory quantum mechanics and Schroedinger equation, description and solution of electronic
structure of hydrogen (3 lectures)
-  Motivation for techniques for many-body molecular problems, elementary theory of ab initio methods,
Hohenberg-Kohn theorems, Kohn-Sham formulation, self-consistent field calculation, structural
optimization (6 lectures)
-   Analysis of data from DFT calculations with examples and case studies, including but not limited
to, catalysis, surface process and adsorption, materials design (3 lectures)
Assignments will include small scripting and projects involving python or other suitable tools for
1.  Leach A.R., Molecular Modelling: Principles and Applications (2nd Ed.), Prentice Hall, New York
1.  Jensen F., An Introduction to Computational Chemistry (2nd Ed.) John Wiely and Sons, West Sussex
2.  Frenkel D., Smit B., Understanding Molecular Simulation: From Algorithms and Applications (1st Ed.),
Academic Press, London 2002.
3.  Landau D.P., Binder K., A Guide to Monte Carlo Simulations in Statistical Physics (3rd Ed.), Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge 2009.
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Nanocomposite Membrane Technology
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Basic knowledge of Engineering and Chemistry
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The instructor will provide:
Fundamentals, synthesis and characterisation of nanocomposite membrane,
-  Different applications of nanocomposite membrane technology.
The students are expected to have:
Comprehensive  knowledge  of  fundamentals,  synthesis  and  characterisation  of  nanocomposite  membrane
Its applications in different fields such as water treatment, gas separation etc.
Challenges and opportunities.
Introduction  to  nanocomposite  membrane  technology:  Membrane  types,  membrane  processes,  transport  theories.  (8
Synthesis  of  nanocomposite  membranes:  Preparation  techniques,  homogeneous  membranes,  composite  membranes,  raw
materials, processing methods. (6 Lectures)
Characterisation  of  nanocomposite  membranes:  Pore  size,  micrographic  methods,  spectroscopic  methods,  strength
measurements. (6 Lectures)
Nanocomposite  membranes  in  water  treatment:  Conventional  nanocomposites,  thin  film  nanocomposites,  TFC  with
nanocomposite substrate. (7 Lectures)
Nanocomposite membranes in gas separation. (5 Lectures)
Challenges in processing of nanocomposite membranes. (5 Lectures)
Environment and safety issues. (5 Lectures)
1.  Tewari, P.K., (2016), Nanocomposite Membrane  Technology: Fundamentals and Applications, CRC Press, Taylor  &
Baker, R.W., (2004), Membrane Technology and Applications, 2nd Edition, Membrane
Technology and Research Inc., Menlo Park, CA.
Online Course Material
1.  Mohanty,  K.,  Membrane  Technology,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Chemical  Engineering,  IIT  Guwahati,
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Novel separation processes
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
The Instructor will:
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Provide  in-depth  knowledge  about  the  multi-component  separation  processes  that  are  relevant  to
The students are expected to gain:
-  Understanding of multicomponent separation processes with relevant industry examples and case studies.
-  Gaining knowledge about the design of separation processes.
Fundamentals  &  Identification  of  separation  process:  Mass  Diffusion,  Fick's  law,  Separation  factor,  chemical
potential,  use  of  Navier-Stokes  equation  in  mass  transfer,  Types  of  existing  processes,  equilibrium  governed
processes, rate governed processes (6 lectures)
Membrane-based  separation  processes:  Fundamentals:  Membrane  casting,  barrier  types,  Types  of  motion  of
molecules  through  the  barrier,  Categorization  of  membrane  processes,  osmotic  pressure,  observed  vs  real
retention, estimation of retention and permeability, modules, Driving forces in membrane separation processes,
Transports in Reverse Osmosis (RO), solution-diffusion model, concentration polarization and membrane fouling
Membrane-based separation processes: Design and applications: Design of Membrane modules,   Dialysis, Gas
Separation by membranes , Electric field enhanced membrane filtration; (5) Electrophoretic Separation Processes
Surfactant-based  separation  processes:  Cloud  point,  mechanism  of  phase  separation,  ionic  &  non-ionic
surfactants,  volume  reduction  factor,  partition  coefficient,  fractional  coacervate  volume,  micellar  enhanced
ultrafiltration, liquid membranes (7 lectures)
Chromatographic separation processes: Chromatographic separation & ion exchange fundamentals, purpose of
column,  gas-liquid  chromatography,  liquid-liquid  chromatography,  involved  processes,  solute  movement,  ion
exchange resin, ion movement theory (3 lectures)
Supercritical  fluid  extraction:  critical  condition,  different  supercritical  fluids.  Modifiers,  methodology  of  SCF,
solubility diagrams, Mollier diagrams (4 lectures)
Miscellaneous separation processes: Pervaporation, Membrane Distillation, etc. (2 lectures)
1.  Seader, Henley and Ropar (2011) Separation Process Principles, 3rd Edition Wiley.
2.  W.S.W Ho and K. K. Sirkar, Membrane Handbook", Vol 1 and Vol 2;1992; Springer,
1.  Humphrey, J. L. and Keller, G. E., 1997, Separation Process Technology, McGraw- Hill, NY
2.  Kister, H. Z., 1992, Distillation Design, McGraw-Hill.
3.  Ross Taylor, R. Krishna, (1993) Multicomponent Mass Transfer, John Wiley & Sons.
Online Course Material
1.  Dr. Sirshendu De Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, IIT Kharagpur, NPTEL: Novel Separation
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Principles of Electrochemical Engineering
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Basic knowledge of Thermodynamics
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The Instructor will:
Provide the student with the  essential knowledge  needed to understand electrochemical engineering
Illustrate the basic principles of electrochemistry, electrokinetic phenomena required for modelling and
design of electrochemical processes and devices.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Understand the principles of electrochemistry processes and electro-analytical methods.
-  Correlate the principles of electrochemistry to electrochemical processes and suggest design solutions to
Basic Principles: Introduction to electrochemistry and fundamentals, Nernst equation, Electrode kinetics, Volta
and Galvani potentials, electrochemical potential, electrochemical equilibrium, Enthalpy and Gibbs free energy
calculation, solvation energy, ionic equilibrium. (6 lectures)
Cell  potential:  Electrochemical  cell,  standard  electrode  potential,  Butler-Volmer  formulation,  Tafel  equation,
Pourbaix  diagram,  Activity  Coefficients,  Donnan  potential,  reversible  electrode,  Born  model  for  ion-solvation
energy, Batteries and Cell Chemistries. (7 lectures)
Ion-ion  interactions  and  ionic  transport:  Debye-Huckel  theory,  activity  coefficient  of  ionic  solution,  ion  pair,
Bjerrum theory and Fuoss theory, migration, extended Nernst-Planck equation, electrochemical mobility and its
relation  with  diffusivity,  Stokes-Einstein  equation,  ionic  conductivity,  transport  number,  Kohlrausch  law.  (12
Charged interface: surface excess quantity, Lippmann equation, Gouy-Chapman model, Stern layer, internal and
external Helmholtz layer, zeta potential, electric double layer. (8 lectures)
Electrochemical Kinetics: Nonequilibrium formulation, diffusion potential, junction potential, Planck-Henderson
equation,  pH  electrode,  electro-osmosis,  electrophoresis,  streaming  potential,  sedimentation  potential.  (7
Application: Electro-chemical Processes, Fuel Cells. (2 lectures)
Prentice ,G., 1991, Electrochemical Engineering Principles, Prentice Hall.
2.  Girault, H., 2004, Analytical and Physical Electrochemistry, EPFL Press, 1st Edition.
1.  Allen J. Bard, Larry R. Faulkner, 2005, Electrochemical Methods: Fundamentals and Applications, John
Wiley & Sons; 2nd Edition.
2.  Fuller,T.F., Harb, J. N., 2018, Electrochemical Engineering, Wiley.
Online Course Material
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
The instructor will:
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Provide  in-depth  knowledge  of  various  techniques  of  optimization  and  their  application  to  chemical
The students are expected to:
Have fair knowledge of various techniques of optimization and their application to chemical processes.
Introduction: Optimization and calculus based classical optimization Techniques (4 lectures)
One  Dimensional  Minimization  Methods:  Elimination  methods-  equally  spaced  points  method,  Fibonacci
method  and  golden  section  method;  Interpolation  methods-  quadratic  interpolation  and  cubic  interpolation,
Newton and quasi-Newton methods, Linear Programming (10 lectures)
Multivariable  Non-Linear  Programming:  Unconstrained-  Different  methods  for  non-linear  programming;
Constrained-  complex  method,  feasible  directions  method,  GRG  method,  penalty  function  methods  and
augmented Lagrange multiplier method. (9 lectures)
Dynamic Programming: Multistage processes- acyclic and cyclic, sub-optimization, principle of optimality and
applications. (6 lectures)
Geometric  Programming  (GP):  Differential  calculus  and  Arithmetic-Geometric
inequality  approach  to
unconstrained GP; Constrained GP minimization; GP with mixed inequality constraints and Complementary GP,
Emerging  Optimization  Techniques:  Genetic  algorithm,  simulated  annealing,  particle  swarm  and  ant  colony
optimization. (10 lectures)
1. Edgar T.F., Himmelblau D.M. and Lasdon L.S., 2001, Optimization of Chemical Processes, 2nd Ed., McGraw Hill.
1. Beveridge G.S.G. and Schechter R.S., 1970, Optimization: Theory and Practice, McGraw Hill.
2. Rao S.S.,2009, Engineering Optimization Theory and Practice, 4th Ed., Wiley
Online Course Material
1. Sarkar, D., Optimization in Chemical Engineering, NPTEL Course Material, Chemical Engineering, IIT Kharagpur,
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
The Instructor will:
Process Safety & Hazards
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Basic Knowledge of Chemical Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Provide comprehensive knowledge of safety regulations and their practices, chemical plant hazards and
their control, risk assessment and management principles and techniques and accident analysis.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Identify  and  distinguish  typical  sources  of  risk  and  hazard  in  a  process  plant,  undertake  hazard  and
operability (HAZOP) study.
Safety  in  Industries:  Concepts  and  definition,  storage  of  dangerous  materials,  Plant  layout  Safety  systems,
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) incidence rate, Fatal accident rate (FAR), Measures to take
during accidents, Toxicology (10 lectures)
Industrial  Hygiene:  Government  regulations,  Industrial  hygiene  and  safety  aspects  related  to  toxicity,  noise,
pressure,  temperature,  vibrations,  radiation  etc,  Evaluation  Methods,  Evaluating  workers  Exposures  to  dusts,
noise. (8 lectures)
Selection Mechanism: Technology  and  process  selection,  Scale  of  disaster,  Fire triangle  Ignition,  Confined and
unconfined explosion, Vapors cloud explosions, Boiling liquid expanding vapor explosion (BLEVE), Dust explosion,
shock  wave,  Flammability  characteristics  of  liquids  and  vapors,  Minimum  oxygen  concentration  (MOC)  and
Inerting. (8 lectures)
Handling  Chemicals  and  toxicity:  Control  of  toxic  chemicals,  Storage  and  handling  of  flammable  and  toxic
chemical, Runway reactions, Relief system risk and hazards management, Design to prevent Fires and Explosions,
Miscellaneous Design for preventing Fires and Explosion. (8 lectures)
Hazards  Identification:  checklists,  Surveys,  Hazard  and  Operability  Studies  (HAZOP),  Safety  reviews.  Risk
Assessment, Hazard models and risk data. Tackling disasters, plan for emergency. Risk management routines,
Emergency shutdown systems, Role of computers in safety, Prevention of hazard human element, Technology and
process selection. (8 lectures)
1.  Daniel A. Crowl and Joseph F. Louvar, 1990, Chemical Process Safety: Fundamentals with applications,
Prentice Hall, Inc.
Lee, F.P., 1983, Loss prevention in the process Industries, Volume 1 and 2 Butterworth.
3.  Hoboken, N. J., 2000, Guidelines for Chemical Process Quantitative Risk Analysis, Wiley-Interscience.
R. W. King and J. Magid, Industrial Hazards and Safety Handbook, Butterworth, 1982.
G. L. Wells, Safety in Process Plant Design, John Wiley and Sons Inc., 1980.
Fawcett,  H.H.  and  W.S.  Wood,  Safety  and  Accident  Prevention  in  Chemical  Operations,  2nd  Edition,
Wiley-Interscience, New York, 1982.
Online Course Material
1.  Sinha,  S.,  Chemical  Process  Safety,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Chemical  Engineering  IIT
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
URL :- https://www.iitj.ac.in/chemical-engineering/en/curriculum
Structure & Property for Polymers
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
An introductory course on polymers for B.Tech, None for M.Tech
The Instructor will:
1. Provide knowledge about various structures in polymers and it’s relation with the mechanical and thermal
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The students are expected to gain:
1. Understanding of structure-property for various polymeric systems
2. Understanding of thermal transition and deformation mechanisms in polymers
Introduction: Outline of the course, review of basics of polymers, polymerization reactions and classification (2
Amorphous and Semicrystalline Polymers: Glass transition, free-volume theory, factors affecting glass transition
temperature,  solution  grown  single  crystals  and  chain-folding  mechanism,  melt  crystallization,  spherulites,
degree  of  crystallinity,  Bragg’s  law,  crystal  thickness  and  chain  extension,  flow-induced  crystallization,
dimensionless  numbers  in  crystallization,  factors  affecting  melting,  relationship  between  melting  and  glass
transition (11 lectures)
Multicomponent  Polymeric  Systems:  Polymer  blends,  block  copolymers,  thermoplastic  elastomers,  examples,
phase diagram, glass transition, compatibilization, morphology diagram (6 lectures)
Deformation  in  Polymers:  Elastic  deformation,  stress-strain  relationship,  polymer  chain  deformation,  crystal
moduli,  elastic  deformation  in  semicrystalline  polymers,  yield  and  crazing  –  necking  and  it’s  mathematical
treatment, yield criteria, mechanisms, plastic deformation (9 lectures)
Viscoelasticity:  Introduction,  examples,  Mechanical  models,  Boltzmann  superposition  principle,  dynamic
mechanical testing, transitions and polymer structure, t-T superposition, entanglements (9 lectures)
Polymer  Composites:  Matrix  and  fillers,  composition,  elastic  deformation,  fracture,  packing,  experiments,
nanocomposites (5 lectures)
1. Young R.J. and Lovell P.A. (2011) Introduction to Polymers, 3rd Edition, CRC Press
1. Chanda M. (2006) Introduction to Polymer Science & Chemistry, CRC Press
Online Course Material
1. Adhikari B, Science & Technology of Polymers, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Metallurgy & Material
Science, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113105028/