Indian Institute of Technology
PG Course Booklet
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Master of Science (MSc) Program
The  classical  mathematics  provides  foundations  for  analysis  of  key  principles  behind
modern  and  emergent  technologies,  modern  mathematics  coupled  with  computational
capabilities  is  opening  new  avenues  for  further  explorations.  M.Sc.  (Mathematics)
Program  at  IIT  Jodhpur  aims  at  tapping  these  opportunities  by  developing  workforce
specialized  in  mathematics  needed  for  developing  key  technologies.  The  proposed  four
semester  program  strives  to  provide  balance  between  analysis  and  application  of
Mathematics. The compulsory courses provide the basic understanding and foundation of
mathematics  enhancing  analytic  capabilities  of  the  students.  Students  can  further
explore  their  area  of  interest  with  program  and  open  elective  courses.  The  project
component  spread  over  last  two  semesters  provides  research  exposure  to  the  students
and  provides  an  opportunity  to  apply  their  mathematical  skills  to  solve  real-life
problems.  Students  are  encouraged  to  undertake  research  Summer  Internships  in
Institute of repute, Industry and R&D organizations.
(2) Objectives of the Program:
M.Sc.  program  in  Mathematics  at  IIT  Jodhpur  is  offered  with  the  objective  of  tapping
opportunities  for  nurturing  motivated  students  in  the  frontline  areas  and  well  trained
workforce  for  Academia  and  Industry.  The  Program  also  strives  to  provide  a  vibrant
environment to support independent thinking and developing the spirit of team work.
(3) Expected Graduate Attributes:
(1)  Skill set to analyze abstract mathematical structures.
(2)  Understanding  about  the  recent  areas  in  pure  and  applied  mathematics  such  as
algebra, analysis, statistics and computation.
(3)  Ability to formulate mathematics from computational aspect.
(4)  Knowledge  and  capability  to  develop  and  apply  mathematical  models  for  real  life
(5)  Skill set to understand the abstraction of mathematical structures.
(6)  Analytical  and  scientific  skill  set  to  pursue  higher  studies  and  research  in  diverse
areas of mathematics.
(7)  Ability to express ideas in the written and oral formats.
(4) Learning Outcomes:
(1) Understanding of fundamental aspects of real, complex and functional analysis.
(2) Basic understanding of linear and abstract algebra.
(3) Knowledge  about  basics  and  use  of  probability  theory,  statistics  and  differential
(4) Skill set to cater computational aspects using programming techniques.
(5) Basic understanding of symbolic solution tools such as MATLAB or Mathematica.
(6) Demonstrate skills to communicate scientific ideas and/or application systems.
(7) Acquire project management skills.
(5) Program Structure:
Course Title  L-T-P-
Credits  Cat.  Course
C  MAL6XX0  Linear
C  MAL6XX0  Real analysis  3-0-0-
C  MAL6XX0  Ordinary
C  MAL5XX0  Probability
C  MAL5XX0  Programming
C  MAL6XX0  Topology
OE  Xxxxx  OE1
P  MAP7XX0   Project
Course Title  L-T-P-
C  MAL6XX0  Abstract
C  MAL5XX0  Complex
C  MAL6XX0  Partial
C  MAL6XX0  Functional
PE  Xxxxx  PE1
C  MA5XX0  Data
OE  Xxxxx  OE2
P  MAP7XX0   Project
(6) Topic Cloud
(a) Linear  Algebra  (Finite  dimensional  Vector  Spaces,  linear  transformations,  Inner
Product  Spaces,  Eigenvalues  and  Eigenvectors,  Jordan  canonical  forms,  Matrix
theory, Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors, Spectral Analysis)
(b) Real  Analysis  (Basic  properties  of  real  system,  study  of  Metric  spaces,  Calculus  of
several  variables,  Function  spaces),  Abstract  Algebra  (Basic  algebraic  structures,
group theory, ring theory, Galois Theory)
(c) Topology  (Topological  structures  and  their  properties,  transformation  between
topological  spaces),  Functional  Analysis  (Normed  linear  spaces,  Banach  spaces,  Lp
Spaces, Hilbert Spaces, Linear transformations and their properties)
(d) Complex  Analysis  (Fundamental  theorem  of  Complex  Analysis,  Residue  theorem,
Contour integration and its applications, evaluation of Improper integrals, conformal
(e) Probability  theory  (Univariate  and  multi-variate  Probability  Distributions  and  their
properties, weak laws of large numbers, central limit theorem).
(f)  Statistics  (sampling  distributions,  estimation  of  parameters,  interval  estimation,
testing  of  hypotheses),  Statistical  modelling  (Estimation  of  parameters,  Interval
estimation, Testing of hypotheses)
(g) Ordinary  Differential  Equations  (Existence  and  Uniqueness  of  solution,  Sturm-
Liouville problems and properties of its solutions)
(h) Partial differential equations and their applications
(i)  Fundamentals of Programming
(j)  Numerical  Techniques  (Root  finding  methods,  Solution  for  system  of  linear
equations,  Power  method),  Solution  to  System  of  linear  Equations,  Interpolation,
Numerical solution of Ordinary Differential Equations.
Fourier  analysis,  Wavelets  analysis,  Dynamical  Systems,  Operations  Research,  Number
Theory,  Calculus  of  Variations,  Integral  Equations,  Statistical  Inference,  Graphs  Theory,
Stochastic  Calculus,  Measure  and  Integration,  Chaos  Theory,  Numerical  Methods  for
Partial Differential Equations, Discrete Mathematics.
(7) List of Electives
(a) Department of Mathematics
  MAL7XX0: Measure and Integration
  MAL7XX0: Financial Engineering
  MAL7XX0: Wavelets analysis and Applications
  MAL7XX0: Dynamical Systems
  MAL7XX0: Optimization
  MAL7XX0: Numerical Analysis
  MAL7XX0: Number Theory
  MAL7XX0: Statistical Inference
  MAL7XX0: Graph Theory
  MAL7XX0: Calculus of Variation and Integral Equations
  MAL7XX0: Stochastic Calculus
  MAL7XX0: Algebraic Number Theory
  MAL7XX0: Machine Learning and Pattern Recognition
  MAL7XX0: Chaos Theory and its Applications
  MAL7XX0: Representations of finite groups
  MAL8XX0: Numerical Partial Differential Equations
  MAL7XX0: Selected Topics in Mathematics - I (1-0-0-0)
  MAL7XX0: Selected Topics in Mathematics - II (2-0-0-0)
  MAL7XX0: Selected Topics in Mathematics - III (3-0-0-0)
Incompressible Fluid Flow
(b) From sister Departments
  Theory of Vibrations
  Finite Element Methods in Engineering
  Computer Graphics
  Advanced Computer Graphics
  Digital Image Analysis
  Statistical Signal Analysis
  Statistical Decision Theory
  Computational Imaging
  Multimedia Communication
  Classical Mechanics
  Quantum Mechanics
  Statistical Physics
Introduction to Quantum Technologies
(8) Content of compulsory courses:
1.  To  give  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  subject  which  can  be  used  by  students  for
further applications in their respective domains of interest.
1.  Concept  of  linear  spaces,  mapping  between  spaces,  norm  and  their  action  on
2.  Eigenvalues,  eigenvectors  and  diagonalization,  and  Primary  decomposition
3.  Normal operators and Spectral theory of real symmetric normal operators.
Vector  Spaces,  Matrices  and  System  of  Linear  Equations  [10  Lectures]:  System  of
linear  equations,Matrices  and  rank,  Vector  Spaces  over  fields,  Subspaces,  Bases  and
dimension, Direct sum of the sub spaces.
[10  Lectures]:  Linear
Linear  Transformation  and
Transformations,  Rank  and  Nullity  theorem,  Representation  of  linear  transformations
by  matrices,  duality  and
Inner  product  spaces,  Gram-Schmidt
orthonormalization, orthogonal projections.
Inner  Product  Spaces
Operators  and  Spectral  Theorem  [20  Lectures]:Linear  functionals  and  adjoints,
Hermitian,  self-adjoint,  Unitary  and  normal  operators,  Spectral  theorem  for  real
operators, Eigenvalues, Eigenvectors, Characteristic polynomials, minimal polynomials,
Cayley  Hamilton  Theorem,  triangulation,  diagonalization,  Jordan  canonical  forms
1.  Hoffman, K., and Kunze R., Linear Algebra,  Pearson Education (India) 2003.
2.  Herstein, I.N., Topics in Algebra, 2nd Edn., John Wiley and Sons.
3.  Lax, P., Linear Algebra and its applications, John Wiley & Sons, Indian Edition 1997
4.  Lang, S., Linear Algebra, 3rd Edition, Springer, 2004.
1.  Artin, M., Algebra, Prentice Hall of India, 1994.
2.  Axler, S., (1997), Linear Algebra Done Right.
3.  Kumaresan, S., (2000) Linear Algebra – A Geometric Approach, PHI Learning.
4.  Sharma,  R.  K.,  Shah,  S.  K.  and  Shankar,  A.  G.,  Algebra  I:  A  Basic  Course  in
Algebra, Pearson Education, 2011.
Online course Material
1.  Rana,  I.K.,  Basic  Linear  Algebra,  NPTEL  Course  material,  Department  of
Mathematics, IIT Bombay,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111101115/
1.  To train the student in the area of real analysis
2.  To give sufficient knowledge of the subject which can be used by student for
further applications in their respective domains of interest
1.  Metric spaces, completeness and Baire Category.
2.  Continuity, Uniform continuity, Contraction mapping, fixed point theorem.
3.  Connectedness and Compactness and Heine-Borel theorem.
4.  Function spaces, Weiestrass approximation theorem.
Real Number System, Limits and Continuity [10 Lectures]:  Countable and uncountable
sets,  the  axiom  of  choice,  Zorn’s  lemma,  Real  number  system,  Consequences  of
completeness property, limit and continuity of functions, uniform continuity.
Metric  Spaces  [10  Lectures]:  Metric  spaces,  continuous  and  uniformly  continuous
functions,  bounded  and  totally  bounded  sets,  Compactness,  Heine-Borel  Theorem,
Completeness, Cantor’s Intersection theorem, Baire spaces, Connectedness.
Sequences  and  Series  of  Functions:  [10  Lectures]Sequences  and  Series  of  functions,
Uniform  convergence,  Uniform  convergence  and  integration,  Uniform  convergence  and
Multivariable  Calculus  [10  Lectures]:  Functions  of  several  variables,  continuity,
differentiability, partial derivatives, Jacobian, Inverse Function Theorem and the Implicit
Function Theorem, multivariable integration, Fubini’s theorem, Change of variables, Line
integrals, surface integrals, Green’s theorem, Divergence theorem, Stokes theorem, and
1.  Aliprantis, C.D., and Burkinshaw, O., Principles of Real Analysis, 3rd Edition.
2.  Apostol, T., Mathematical Analysis, 2nd Edition, Narosa, 2002.
3.  Ghorpade, S.R., and Limaye, B.V., A Course in Multivariable Calculus and Analysis,
1.  Royden, H. L., Real Analysis, Third Edition, Macmillan Publishing Company, 1988.
2.  Rudin, W., Priciples of Mathematical Analysis, Third Edition, McGraw-Hill, 1976.
3.  Davidson, K. R., and Donsig, A. P., Real analysis and applications: Theory in
practice, Springer Publications, 2010.
4.  Bartle, R., Sherbert, D., Introduction to Real Analysis, 3rd Edition, Wiley 2011.
Online course Material
1.  Kulkarni, S.H., Real Analysis, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mathematics,
IIT Madras,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111106053/
Ordinary Differential Equations
Course No.  MAL6XX0
L-T-P-D [C]  3–0–0-1[4]
1.  Introduce the concepts of existence and uniqueness of solution of ordinary
2.  Develop analytical techniques to solve ordinary differential equations
3.  Understand the properties of solution of ordinary differential equations
1.  Understanding existence, uniqueness, and other properties of a solution of
ordinary differential equations
2.  Solving ordinary differential equations with series method, Green's function
3.  Solving systems of ODEs, and characterization of their solutions
Motivations and origins, Existence-Uniqueness [7 Lectures]: Existence of solutions by
Picard’s method, uniqueness and continuous dependence w.r.t. initial conditions and
parameters, continuation of solutions, existence  and uniqueness of solutions to
system of differential equations.
Second  Order  Linear  Equations  [23  Lectures]:  General  solution  of  differential
equations  using  method  of  undetermined  coefficients,  method  of  variation  of
parameters, variable coefficients equations, Power series solution method, Legendre’s
equation,  Frobenius  method,  Bessel’s  equation,  Green's  function  method,  Sturm-
Liouville problems, orthogonal eigen-function expansions, Sturm comparison theorem,
Sturm separation theorem,
Systems of Differential Equations [10 Lectures]: Phase plane method, critical points of
the  system  and  their  stability  analysis,  algebraic  properties  of  solutions,  the
eigenvalue-eigenvector  method  of  finding  solutions,  fundamental  matrix  solutions,
matrix exponential, nonhomogeneous equations.
1.  Ross, S. L., Introduction to ordinary differential equations, 4th Ed., John Wiley
2.  Braun. M., Differential Equations and Their Applications, 3rd  Ed., Springer-Verlag,
3.  Chicone, C., Ordinary Differential Equations with Applications, 2nd  Ed., Springer,
1.  Coddington, E. A., An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations, PHI
2.  Birkhoff, G. and Rota G., Ordinary Differential Equations, 4th Ed., Wiley
3.  Simmons, G., Differential Equations with Applications and Historical Notes, 2nd
Ed., McGraw Hill Education, 2017
Online Course Material
1.  Agrawal, P. N. and Pandey, D. N., Ordinary and partial differential equations and
applications, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mathematics, IITRoorkee,
2.  Raghavendra V., Ordinary differential equations, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Mathematics, IIT Kanpur,https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111104031/
Probability and Statistics
1.  Demonstrate an understanding of the basic principles of probability theory.
2.  Use  of  the  properties  of  discrete  and  continuous  random  variables  with  their
joint, marginal, and conditional distributions.
3.  Use  of the  various families of probability distributions to model various types  of
1.  Understanding of probability theory and statistics to solve industrial problems.
2.  Understanding  of  random  sampling,  theory  of  estimation  and  testing  of
Probability  spaces  and  Random  Variables[15
lectures]:  Probability  measure,
conditional  probability,  Bayes’  theorem,  Random  variable,  cumulative  distribution
function  and  its  properties,  probability  density  function,  functions  of  a  random
variable,  standard  discrete  and  continuous  distributions  and  their  applications,
Transformation, moments, Chebychev’s inequality.
Joint  Distributions[10  lectures]:  Random  vectors,  joint,  marginal  and  conditional
distributions,  conditional  expectation,  independence,  correlation  and  regression,  Bi-
variate normal distribution, functions of random vectors, transformation.
Limit Theorems[3 lectures]: Convergence of sequences of random variables, weak and
strong laws of large numbers, central limit theorems.
Estimation and Tests of Hypotheses[14 lectures]: Sampling distributions, estimation of
parameters, maximum likelihood method and method of moments, interval estimation,
testing of hypotheses.
1.  Rohatgi,  V.  K.,  and  Saleh,  A.  K.  M.  E.,  An  Introduction  to  Probability  and
Statistics, Second Edition, Wiley India, 2000.
2.  Casella, G. and Berger, R. (2002). Statistical Inference, Cengage Learning.
3.  Hoel, P.G., Port, S.C. and Stone, C.J. (1971). Introduction to Probability Theory,
Houghton Mifflin Series in Statistics.
1.  Hogg, R. V., McKean J. W., and Craig A., Introduction to Mathematical Statistics,
Sixth Edition, Pearson Education India, 2006.
2.  Prakasa  Rao,  B.  L.,  S.,  A  First  Course  in  Probability  and  Statistics,  World
Scientific/Cambridge University Press India, 2009.
3.  Castaneda,  L.  B.,  Arunachalam,  V.,  and  Dharmaraja,  S.,  Introduction  to
probability and stochastic processes with Applications. Wiley, 2012
Online Course Material:
1.  Kumar,  S.,  Probability  and  Statistics,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Mathematics, IIT Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111105090/
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)
The Instructor will:
1.  introduce the basics of computer programming in C/C++.
2.  Teach to develop well-structured programs in C/C++.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Write well structures programs in C/C++.
2.  Implement and solve algebraic and transcendental equations and system of
Introduction[2 Lectures]:machine language, assembly language, high-level programming
languages, compiler, interpreter, loader, linker, and flowchart.
Basic  features  of  programming  (Using  C/C++)  [8  Lectures]:Data  types,  variables,
operators, expressions, control structures, functions, parameter passing conventions.
Advanced  features  of  programming  [8  Lectures]:  Pointers,  arrays,  operations  on  data
(Insert, delete, search, traverse and modify), structures, introduction to classes.
Root  finding  methods  [4  Lectures]:  Bisection  method,  Secant  method,  the  method  of
false position, Newton-Raphson method.
Solution  of  system  of  linear  equations  [6  Lectures]:  Gauss  elimination,  Gauss-Jordan
method,  LU  decomposition,  Crout's  Method,  Do-little  Method,  and  Cholesky
1.  Balaguruswamy, E., Programming in ANSI C, Tata McGraw-Hill, 2004.
2.  Lafore, R., Object-Oriented  Programming in C++, Fourth Edition, Pearson, 2002.
3.  Burden,  R. L., Numerical Analysis, Ninth Edition, Cengage Learning India, 2012.
1.  Schildt, H., C: The Complete Reference, Fourth Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, 2000.
2.  Datta,  B. N., Numerical Linear Algebra and Applications, 2nd Edition, PHI, 2010.
Online Course Material
1.  Kumar,  S.A.,  Principles  of  Programming  Languages,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
2.  Gupta,  D.,  Introduction  to  Problem  Solving  and  Programming,  NPTEL  Course
Material,  Department  of  Computer  Science  and  Engineering,  IIT  Kanpur,
3.  Nayak,    A.  K.  and  Kumar  S.,  Numerical  methods,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Course Title  Abstract Algebra
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)
1. To train the student in the domain of Abstract Algebra.
2.  To  give  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  subject  which  can  be  used  by  student  for
further applications in their respective domains of interest.
1. Modules, Dual modules, Cyclic Primary modules and Decomposition theorem.
2.  Nilpotent  and  Solvable  groups,  Galois  Theory,  splitting  Fields,  Normal  extension,
Fundamental theorem of Galois theory
Group  Theory  [10
theory  (Symmetric  Groups,
Transformation  Groups),  Abelian  groups,  Sylow  Theorems,  nilpotent  and  solvable
lectures]:  Review  of  Group
Ring  Theory  [11  lectures]:  Rings,  Polynomial  Rings,  Prime  ideals,  Maximal  Ideals,
Principal Ideal Domain, Unique Factorization domain, Euclidian Algorithm.
Field extensions [5 lectures]: Finite extension, algebraic extensions.
Galois  Theory  [16  lectures]:  Galois  Theory,  splitting  Fields,  Normal  extension,
Fundamental Theorem of Galois Theory and its applications.
1.  Cohn, P. M., Basic algebra: Groups, rings and fields, 2 Ed., Springer, 2005
2.  Jacobson, N., Basic Algebra I, Dover Publication, 2009
3.  Jacobson, N., Basic Algebra II, Dover Publication, 2012
1.  Artin, M., Algebra, Second Edition, Pearson, 2010
4.  Dummit, D. S. and Foote, R. M., Abstract algebra, 3 Ed., Wiley, 2004
5.  Stewart, I., Galois Theory, Third Edition, Chapman and Hall, 2003
Online Course Material:
1.  Gross, B., Abstract Algebra, Online Course Material, Harvard Extension School,
Course Title  Complex Analysis
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)
Course No.  MAL5XX0
L-T-P-D [C]  3–0–0-1[4]
1.  To train the student in the area of complex analysis.
2.  To  give  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  subject  which  can  be  used  by  student  for
further applications in their respective domains of interest.
1.  Cauchy-Riemann Equations, Homotopy of paths.
2.  Cauchy-Goursat theorem and Cauchy’s Integral Formula.
3.  Evaluation of improper integrals.
Introduction  to  functions  of  complex  variables  [14  Lectures]:  Elementary  functions,
continuity, differentiability, Analytic Functions, Cauchy Riemann Equations.
Complex  Integration[14  Lectures]:  Line  and  Contour  Integrals,  anti-derivatives  of  a
complex function, Cauchy-Goursat Theorem, Simply and multiply connected domains,
Cauchy’s Integral formula, Taylor and Laurent Series expansion, Liouville’s Theorem,
Fundamental Theorem of Algebra, Maximum modulus principle.
Residue Theory[10 Lectures] Residues and poles, Cauchy’s residue theorem, Jordan’s
Theorem, evaluation of Improper integrals
Conformal  mappings[4  Lectures]:  Conformal  mapping,  Special  transformation,
1.  Lang, S., Complex Analysis, Fourth Edition, Springer-Verlag, 1999
2.  Brown,  J.  W.  and  Churchill,  R.  V.,  Complex  variables  and  applications,  9  Ed.,
McGraw Hill Publications, 2013
1.  Ahlfors, L.V., Complex Analysis, 3rd edition, McGraw Hill, 2000.
2.  Ablowitz,  M.  J.,  and  Fokas,  A.  S.,  Complex  variables:  Introduction  and
applications, 2 Ed., Cambridge University Press, 2003.
3.  Shastri, A.R., An Introduction to Complex Analysis, Macmillan India, New Delhi,
1.  Sree  Krishna,  P.A.S.,  Complex  Analysis,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Mathematics, IIT Guwahati,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111103070/
2.  Swaminathan,  A.  and  Katiyar,  V.K.  Complex  Analysis,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Course No.  MAL6XX0
L-T-P-D [C]  3–0–0-0[3]
1. Introduce the concepts of existence and uniqueness of solution of partial differential
2. Develop analytical techniques to solve partial differential equations
3. Understand the properties of solution of partial differential equations
1.  Understanding existence, uniqueness, and other properties of a solution of partial
2.  Solving partial differential equations with Fourier series method, Green's function
method,  Laplace transform method, and Fourier transform method
Motivations and origins [3 Lectures]:  PDEs of engineering and physics (Heat, wave and
First  order  partial  differential  equations  [9  Lectures]:  Linear,  quasi-linear  and  fully
nonlinear  equations,  Lagrange  method,  the  Cauchy  problem,  Cauchy  method  of
characteristics, compatible systems, Charpit method.
Second  order  partial  differential  equations  [12  Lectures]:  Classification  and  Canonical
forms, Adjoint operators, Riemann’s method, solving linear partial differential equations
with constant coefficients.
Elliptic, parabolic and hyperbolic equations[16 Lectures]: Variable separation method for
Laplace/Poisson  equation,  heat  conduction  equation,  wave  equation,  Burger  equation,
D’Alembert’s solution,  Maximum-Minimum principles, Duhamel’s principle, solutions by
Green’s function method.
1.  Rao, K. S., Introduction to partial differential equations, 3rd Edition, PHI, 2011
2.  Logan, J. D., Applied partial differential equations, 3rd  Ed., Springer, 2015
3.  Pinchover, Y. and Rubinstein, J., An introduction to partial differential equations,
Cambridge University Press, 2005
1.  Sneddon, I. N., Elements of Partial Differential Equations, McGraw-Hill, New
2.  Prasad, P. And Ravindran, R.,  Partial differential equations, New Age
International Publisher, 2005
3.  Mattheij, R. M. M., Rienstra, S. W., and ten Thije Boonkkamp, J. H. M., Partial
Differential Equations: Modeling, Analysis, Computation, SIAM Publication, 2005
Online Course Material
1.  Agrawal, P. N. and Pandey D.N., Ordinary and partial differential equations and
applications, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mathematics, IIT Roorkee,
2.  Sinha, R. K., Partial differential equations, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Mathematics, IIT Guwahati, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111103021/
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)
1.  To introduce the area of Functional analysis.
2.  To give sufficient knowledge of the subject which can be used by student for further
applications in their respective domains of interest.
1.  Basic idea of a normed linear spaces and operators on normed linear space.
2.  Open Mapping theorem, Hahn-Banach Theorem and their applications.
Normed Linear Spaces[14 Lectures]: Normed linear space, subspace of a normed linear
space,  Equivalent  norms,  Finite  Dimensional  normed  linear  spaces,  Banach  spaces,
Linear operator, norm of a linear operator, boundedness and continuity, Quotient spaces.
Integrability  and  Extension  Theorems[19  Lectures]:  Integrable  functions,  l_p  spaces,
Minkowski's inequality, Holder's inequality, separability of l_p spaces, uniformly bounded
operator,  principle  of  uniform  boundedness,  Sub-linear  functional,  Semi-norm,  Open
mapping  theorem,  Closed  graph  theorem,  Hahn-Banach  Theorem,  dual  of  a  normed
linear space, reflexive normed linear space.
Hilbert Spaces and their Applications [9 Lectures]: Inner product spaces, polarisation
identity, Bessel's inequality, Hilbert space, Riesz representation theorem, Operators on
Hilbert spaces, compact operators, projections and idempotents.
1.  Limaye, B. V., Functional Analysis, Second Edition, New Age International, 1996
2.  Lax, P. D., Functional Analysis, First Edition, 2001
3.  Ruddin, W., Functional Analysis, 2nd Ed., McGraw Hill Education, 2017
1.  Conway,  J.  B.,  A  course  in  Functional  Analysis,  Second  Edition,  Springer-Verlag,
2.  Goffman, C., and Pedrick, G., A First Course in Functional Analysis, Prentice-Hall,
Online Course Material
1. Srivastava, P. D., Functional Analysis,  NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Mathematics, IIT Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/syllabus/111105037/
Data Structures and Algorithms
Course No.  MAP5XX0
L-T-P-D [C]  1–0–2-0 [2]
1.  To provide sufficient skills to prove and analyze efficiency of the algorithms.
2.  To introduce elementary data structures and related operations.
1.  Ability to design correct programs to solve problems.
2.  Skills to choose efficient data structures and apply them to solve problems.
3.   Ability to show the correctness and efficiency of a program.
Performance  of  algorithms[3  lectures]:  Algorithm  Development,  Complexity  analysis
Data  structures  [11  lectures]:  Arrays,  pointers,  linked  lists,  stacks,  queues,  binary
trees, tree traversals.
A  programming  laboratory  will  be  set  in  consonance  with  the  topics  covered  in
lectures. This will include assignments in a programming language like C and C++ in
GNU Linux environment.
1.  Cormen, T.H., Leiserson, C.E., Rivest, R.L. and Stein, C., Introduction to
Algorithms, 2nd Ed.,Prentice-Hall of India, 2007.
2.  Sahni, S., Data Structures, Algorithms and Applications in C++, 2nd Ed.,
Universities Press, 2005.
1.  Aho, A. V., Ullman, J. D., and Hopcroft, J. E. (1985), Data Structures and
2.  Goodrich, M.T. and Tamassia, R., Data Structures and Algorithms in Java, Wiley,
Online course material
1.  Garg, N., Data Structures And Algorithms, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Delhi,
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)
1. To train the students in the domain of Topology.
2. To give sufficient knowledge of the subject which can be used by student for further
applications in their respective domains of interest.
1. Topological spaces, order topology and product topology.
2. Separation axioms, countability axioms Urysohn’s metrization theorem.
3. Function spaces, pointwise and uniform convergence, Stone-Weierstrass Theorem.
Basic  Topology  [14  Lectures]:  Topological  spaces,  basis  and  sub-basis,  order  topology,
product  topology,  subspace  topology,  convergence,  closed  sets,  continuous  functions,
Properties of Topological Spaces [17 Lectures]: Connected spaces, Components, local
connectedness, compact spaces, limit point compactness, local compactness,
Countability axioms, separation axioms, normal spaces, Tychonoff spaces, Urysohn’s
metrization theorem, Tietze extension theorem, Tychonoff theorem, Stone-Cech
Special  Topics  [09  Lectures]:  Function  spaces,  pointwise  and  uniform  convergence,
compact-open  topology,  uniform  convergence  on  compact  set,  Stone-Weierstrass
1.  Munkres, J., Topology, second edition, Pearson Publications, 2000
2.  Willard, S., General Topology, Dover Publications, 2004
1.  Pervin,  W.  J.  and  Boas,  R.  P.,  Foundations  of  general  topology,  Academic  Press,
2.  Simmons,  G.  F.,  Introdunction  to  topology  and  modern  analysis,  Tata  McGraw-
Online Course Material
1. Veeramani, P., Topology, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mathematics, IIT
(9) Content of Elective courses:
Measure and Integration
1. Provide background in the area of Measure Theory.
2.  Provide  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  subject  which  can  be  used  by  students  for
further applications in their respective domains of interest.
1.  Provide  basic  understanding  of  the  measures,  total  variation,  absolute  continuity,
and Radon-Nikodym Theorem.
2.  Impart  knowledge  in  Derivatives  of  measures,  Fundamental  Theorem,  product
measures, Fubini’s Theorem, convolutions, Distribution functions.
Basics  of  Measure  and  Integration  [12  Lectures]:  Riemann  Integration  and  need  for
generalization, Measurable Sets, measurable functions, functions between measurable
spaces,  Measures  on  Algebra  of  Sets,  Extension  Theorems,  Lebesgue  and  Lebesgue-
Stieltjes measure, Measure, measure spaces.
Integrability  [14  Lectures]:  Simple  functions  and  their  integrals,  integral  of  a  non-
negative measurable function, integral of extended real valued non-negative function,
Monotone  Convergence  Theorem,  Fatou’s  lemma,  Integrable  functions,  Lebesgue
Dominated  Convergence  Theorem,  Lebesgue  Spaces  L_p,  Holder’s  Inequality,
Minkowski’s Inequality, completeness theorem, L_{\infinity}.
Modes  of  convergence  [6  Lectures]:  Relations  between  convergence  almost
everywhere,  convergence  in  measure  and  convergence  in  L_p  spaces,  Egoroff’s
Special Theorems (without proof) [14 Lectures]: Hahn Decomposition Theorem, Jordan
Decomposition  Theorem,  Radon-Nikodym  Theorem,  Lebesgue  Decomposition
Theorem, Riesz Representation Theorem for L_p spaces.
1.  Royden,  H.L.,  (1988),  Real  analysis,  3rd  Edition,  Macmillan  Publishing  Company,
2.  Bartle,R.G.,  (2014),  The  Elements  of  Integration  and  Lebesgue  Measure,  John
Wiley & Sons
3.  Inder K.Rana, (2007), An Introduction to Measure and Integration, Narosa.
1.  Parthasarathy,  K.R.,  2005,  Introduction  to  Probability  and  Measure,  TRIM  Series,
Vol. 33, Hindustan book agency, New Delhi.
2.  Halmos, P.R., 1976, Measure Theory, 1st Edition, Springer.
Online Course Material
1.  Rana,  I.K.,  Measure  Theory,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Mathematics,
IIT Bombay, https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc17_ma15/
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)/M.Tech.(DCS)/PhD (MA)
L-T-P-D [C]  3–0–0-0 [3]
1.  Securities  Pricing  Securities,  Risk  Management  Assessment,  prediction  and  decision
making, under uncertainty, regarding future events and their consequences
2.  Portfolio Optimization Balancing risk and return
3.  Modeling Pricing of derivatives and Itos calculus
1.  Valuation of financial portfolio
2.  Pricing of financial derivatives (options and contracts)
3.  Understanding risk and return
financial  markets  and
derivatives,  risk  and  return,  risky  and  risk  free  assets,  interest  rates,  bonds,  bonds  pricing,
spot  and  forward  rates,  investment  portfolio,  mean-variance  analysis,  capital  asset  pricing
model, arbitrage pricing theory.
[22  lectures]:Discrete  time  models,  stock  and  money  market  models,  principle  of  no
arbitrage,  pricing  of  contracts  (forward  and  future),  options,  put-call  parity,  option  pricing,
martingales,  Binomial  model,  CRR  model,  Black-Scholes  formula,  Greeks,  random  walk,
Brownian motion, stochastic process, Itos integral and Ito-Deoblins formula.
1.  M.  Capinski  and  T.  Zastawniak,  Mathematics  for  finance:  an  introduction  to  financial
engineering, Springer, 2010.
2.  S.N. Neftci, Principles of financial engineering. Academic Press/Elsevier, 2009.
1.  J.C. Hull, Options, futures and other derivatives. Pearson India, 2011.
2.  S.E.  Shreve,  Stochastic  calculus  for  finance  I:  The  binomial  asset  pricing  model,
Course Title  Wavelet Analysis and Applications  Course No.
1.  To introduce the origin of wavelet transform
2.  To develop the understanding of multiresolution analysis for different types of
3.  To equip the students with various possible applications of the wavelet transform
1.  Strong understanding of Fourier and wavelet transform.
2.  Answer to the question why wavelet transform is a better tool for signal analysis.
3.  Implement and apply wavelet transform for various applications.
Fourier  Analysis  [12  Lectures]:  Fourier  and  inverse  Fourier  transforms,  Gabor
transform, short time Fourier transform and the uncertainty principle.
Wavelet  Analysis  [18  Lectures]:  Mother  wavelet,  orthogonal  and  biorthogonal
wavelets,  continuous  and  discrete  wavelet  transform,  basic  properties  of  wavelet
transforms,  multiresolution  analysis,  Haar  wavelet  transform,  Dabuchies  Wavelet
Transform, wave-packet transform
Applications  [12  Lectures]:  Application  of  wavelet  theory  to  feature  detection,  image
denoising and compression.
1.  Chui, C. K., An Introduction to Wavelets, Academic Press Inc., New York, 1992.
2.  Debnath, L., Wavelet Transforms and Their Applications, Birkhauser, 2002.
3.  Mallat, S., A Wavelet Tour of Signal Processing, Academic Press, 1999.
1.  Daubechies,  I.,  Ten  Lectures  on  Wavelets,  Society  for  Industrial  and  Applied
Mathematics, Philadelphia, PA, 1992
2.  Akansu,  A.N.,    and  Haddad,  R.A.,    Multiresolution  signal  Decomposition:
Transforms, Subbands and Wavelets, Academic Press, Oranld, Florida, 1992
3.  Kaiser, G., A Friendly Guide to Wavelets, Birkhauser, New York, 1995.
Online course Material
1.  Gadre,  V.M.,  Fundamentals  of  Wavelets,  Filter  Banks  and  Time  Frequency
Analysis,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Mathematics,  IIT  Bombay,
2.  Strang,  G.  and  Amaratunga,  K.,  Wavelets,  Filter  Banks  and  Applications,  Online
Course Title  Optimization Techniques
1. To train the student in the domain of linear and non-linear programming
2.  To  give  sufficient  tools  for  solving  programming  problems  which  can  be  used  by
student for further applications in different areas of interest.
1. Simplex method, Charne’s M-method, Two-phase Method
2. Duality and Integer programming problem
3.  Transportation  problem,  assignment  Problem,  Karmakar’s  Algorithm  and  Wolf’s
4. Newton’s method, Conjugate direction method and Quasi-Newton methods
5. KKT conditions, penalty and Barrier Methods, exact penalty functions
Linear Programming [23 lectures]: Linear combination of vectors, Convex set, Convex
hull,  Linear  programming  problem,  feasible  solution,  basic  feasible  solution,  graphical
solution,  Simplex method Charne’s M method, Two phase method, Solving system of
equations  and  finding  the  inverse  of  a  matrix  using  simplex  method,  duality,
Complementary  Slackness  Theorem,  Duality  and  Simplex  method,  dual  simplex
algorithm, Integer  Programming, Gomory’s  cut-constraint method, Branch and Bound
method, Transportation problem, Assignment problem, application of optimization.
Nonlinear  Programming  [19  lectures]:  First  and  second  order  conditions,  Iterative
methods,  line  search  methods,  global  convergence  of  descent  algorithms,  Newton’s
method, Conjugate direction method, Quasi-Newton Method, Constrained optimization
-  Lagrange  Multipliers,  Karush-Kuhn-Tucker  conditions,  Regular  points,  Sensitivity
analysis, Quadratic Programming, Convex problems, applications of optimization.
1.  Luenberger, D. G., Linear and Nonlinear Programming, Yinyu Ye, Third   Edition,
2.  Kambo, N. S., Mathematical Programming Techniques,  Second Edition, Affiliated
East West Press, 2005
1.  Bazaraa, M. S., Sherali, H.D., and Shetty, C. M., Nonlinear Programming: Theory
and Algorithms, Third Edition, Wiley publications, 2006
2.  Darst,  R,  Introduction  to  Linear  Programming:  Applications  and  Extensions,
Dekker Publications, 1991
Online Course Material:
1.  Goswami, A., Optimization, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mathematics,
IIT Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111105039/1
Course Title  Numerical Analysis
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)
1.  Learn numerical techniques for a variety of mathematical problems
2.  Analyze the validity and error in the numerical results
1.  Develop an understanding of numerical error and applicability of a particular
2.  Solve numerically algebraic equations, linear systems of equations, ordinary
differential equations and eigenvalue problems.
3.  Carry out numerical differentiation, integration, and interpolation
Errors  analysis[4  Lectures]:  Numerical  Algorithms  and  errors,  Floating  point  systems,
Types of error, Propagation of Error, the stability of algorithms.
Nonlinear  equations  [8  Lectures]:  Newton-Raphson  Method,  Fixed-Point  Iteration
Method, Muller’s method, criterion for acceptance of a root, Rates of Convergence.
Numerical solution of linear system of equations [8 Lectures]: Ill- conditioned systems,
iterative methods (Gauss-Seidel method, Gauss-Jacobi method), matrix inversion, Rate
of  Convergence,  Rayleigh  Quotient,  Min-max  principle,  the  power  and  inverse  power
methods for eigenvalue problems.
Interpolation  [8  Lectures]:  Errors  in  polynomial  interpolation,  finite  differences,
interpolation, Spline interpolation.
Numerical  Integration  and  Differentiation  [6  Lectures]:  Newton-Cotes  integration
formulae, Difference Formulae, Method of Undetermined Coefficients.
Numerical IVPs for Ordinary Differential Equations  [8 Lectures]: Taylor series method,
Euler’s Method, Modified Euler’s Methods, Runge-Kutta Methods.
Tools to be used: MATLAB, Mathematica, Octave, Scilab.
1.  Süli, E. and Mayers, D.F., An Introduction to Numerical Analysis, Cambridge Uni.
2.  Sastry, S.S., Introductory Methods of Numerical Analysis, Prentice Hall of India
Pvt. Ltd., 2007.
3.  Burden, R. L., Numerical Analysis, 9th Edition, Cengage Learning India, 2012
1.  Conte, S.D. and Boor, C., Elementary Numerical Analysis: An Algorithmic
Approach, Third Edition, McGraw-Hill Publication, 1980
2.  Chapra, S.C., Applied Numerical Methods with MATLAB for Engineers and
Scientists, 3 Ed., McGraw Hill, 2012
Online course Material
1.  Lal, R. and Banerjee S., Numerical Analysis, NPTEL Course Material, Department
of Mathematics, IIT Roorkee,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111107062/
2.  Usha, R., Numerical Analysis, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Mathematics, IIT Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111106101/
Course Title  Number Theory
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)
Course No.  MAL7XX0
L-T-P-D [C]  3–0–0-0[3]
1.To give basic knowledge of Number theory.
2.  To  equip  students  with  number  theoretic  tools  which  can  be  used  in  their  fields  of
1. Basic knowledge of Residue systems and RSA Cryptosystems.
2. Diophantine Equations, Pells Equation, Binary Quadratic Forms and their Applications.
Introduction  [10  Lectures]:  Divisibility,  prime  numbers,  properties  and  their  distribution,
complete and reduced residue systems, theorems of Fermat, Euler & Wilson, application to
Congruences  [10  Lectures]:  Linear  congruences,  Chinese  Remainder  theorem,  quadratic
congruences, and Quadratic Reciprocity law.
Arithmetical  functions  [15  Lectures]:  examples,  properties  and  their  rate  of  growth,
Continued  fractions,  and  their  connections  with  Diophantine  approximations,  applications
to  linear  and  Pell’s  equations,  Binary  quadratic  forms,  Partition:  basic  properties  and
Diophatine  equations  [6  Lectures]:  linear,  quadratic  and  higher  degree,  some  general
1.  David M. Burton, Elementary Number Theory. McGraw Hill Education, 2012.
2.  G.  H.  Hardy  and  E.  M.  Wright.  An  Introduction  to  the  Theory  of  Numbers.  Oxford
University Press, 1960.
1.  Niven,  H.  S.  Zuckerman  and  H.  L.  Montgomery.  An  Introduction  to  the  Theory  of
Numbers, Wiley, 1991
2.  K. Ireland, and M. Rosen. A Classical Introduction to Modern Number Theory. GTM-
84, Springer, 1990.
1.  Saikia, A., Number Theory, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mathematics, IIT
1. To provide background in the area of Statistics.
2.  To provide sufficient knowledge of the subject which can be used by students for
further applications in their respective domains of interest.
1.  Basic understanding of the Point and Interval Estimation, Testing of Hypotheses,
2.  Knowledge  in  Random  Sampling,  Unbiased  Estimation,  Bias-Variance  Tradeoff,
Goodness of Fit.
Random  Sampling  &  Sampling  Distributions  [5  lectures]:  Random  sampling,  exact
sampling distributions: Chi-square, t and F distributions, large sample theory.
Point  and  Interval  Estimations  [16  lectures]:  Point  estimator,  properties  of  an  estimator,
factorization,  MVUE,  maximum  likelihood  method  of  estimation,  Cramer-Rao  bound,
confidence interval estimation.
Tests of Hypotheses [21 lectures]: Review of hypotheses testing, Neyman-Pearson theory,
general linear hypothesis, method of least squares, analysis of variance (one way and two
way),  analysis  of  categorical  data,  Chi-square  test  for  goodness  of  fit,  test  of
independence, non-parametric tests.
1.  Rohatgi, V. K., Statistical Inference, Dover Publications Inc., 2003.
2.  Hogg,  R.  V.,  McKean,  J.  W.,  Craig,  A.  T.,  Introduction  to  Mathematical  Statistics,
1.  Casella, G. and Berger, R. L., Statistical Inference, Brooks/Cole Publishing Company,
2.  Rao, C. R., Linear Statistical Inference and Its Applications, Wiley, 2006.
3.  Gibbons,  J.D.  and  Chakroborti,  S.,  Nonparametric  Statistical  Inference,  CRC  Press,
Online Course material:
1.  Zhou  Fan,  Introduction  to  Statistical  Inference,  Online  Course  Material,  Stanford
2.  Kumar,  S.,  Statistical
Inference,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Mathematics, IIT Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111105124/
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)/Ph.D.(MA)
1.  To develop an understanding of financial market
2.  Given  a  discrete  process,  pricing  of  options,  such  as  European,  American,  Asian
and other exotic options
3.  To  develop  an  understanding  of  change  of  measure,  Martingales  and  Brownian
4.  Use of Black-Scholes model under various conditions
1.  Understanding derivatives and securities
2.  Pricing and valuation in discrete case
3.  Binomial model and self-financing strategy
4.  Black Scholes model and interest rate models
lectures]:General  probability  spaces,  Gaussian  and
martingales  and  stopping  times,  Brownian  motion  and  its  properties,  Ito’s  integral  and
martingale properties of Ito’s integral.
[12  lectures]:Continuous  time  financial  market  models,  Black-Scholes-Merton  model,
Black-Scholes PDE and formulas, risk-neutral valuation, option pricing, the Greeks, put-
call  parity,  Risk-neutral  valuation,  risk-neutral  measure,  Girsanov's  theorem  for  change
representation  of  Brownian
of  measure,  martingale
[20  lectures]:Stochastic  differential  equations,  existence  and  uniqueness  of  solutions,
Feynman-Kac formula and its applications, models with stochastic volatility, pricing and
hedging  in  incomplete  markets,  bond  markets,  term-structures  of  interest  rates,  bond
pricing, Short rate models, martingale models for short rate, Vasicek, Cox-Ingersoll-Ross
and  Hull-White  models,  multifactor  models;  Forward  rate  models,  Heath-Jarrow-Morton
1.  Shreve, S. E., Stochastic Calculus for Finance I; The Binomial Asset Pricing Model
, Springer-Verlag, 2004
2.  Shreve,  S.  E.,  Stochastic  Calculus  for  Finance  II;  Continuous-Time  Model,
1. Baxter, M. and Rennie, A., Financial Calculus, University Press, Cambridge 1996
Calculus of variations and Integral
Offered for  M.Sc.(MA)/Ph.D.(MA)
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce variational problems with methods to solve them.
2.  Introduce  the  integral  transforms  and  integral  equations,  and  their  solution
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Maximize or minimize functionals associated with the variational problems.
2.  Apply integral transforms to solve differential equations.
3.  Solve Fredholm and Volterra integral equations.
Calculus  of  Variation  [20  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  Variational  problems,  functionals,
Functional dependence on first order derivatives, Euler equations, Functional dependence
on  functions  of  several  independent  variables,  Variational  problems  with  moving
boundaries, Rayleigh-Ritz and Galerkin’s Method.
Integral  Transforms  [8  Lectures]:  Fourier,  Fourier  sine/cosine  and  Laplace  transforms
and their properties, convolution theorem and application to solve differential equations.
Integral  Equations  [12  Lectures]:  Classification  of  Integral  equations,  Neumann’s
iterative  method  for  Fredholm’s  equation  of  the  second  kind,  Volterra  type  integral
equations, Integral equations of the first kind and Convolution type Integral Equations.
1.  Gupta, A.S., Calculus of Variation, Prentice Hall of India Pvt. Ltd. 1996
2.  Debnath  L.  and  Bhatta,  D.,  Integral  transformations  and  their  applications,  2nd
Edition,  Chapman and Hall / CRC publications, 2007
3.  Moiseiwitsch, B. L., Integral equations, Logman, 1977
1.  Gelfand, I. M. and Francis, S.V., Calculus of Variation, Prentice Hall, New Jersey,
2.  Yosida, K., Lectures on differential and integral equations, Dover, 1991
3.  Hildebrand, F. B. , Methods of applied mathematics, 2nd Ed, Prentice-Hall, 1965
Online Course Material
1.  Agrawal, P.N. and Pandey, D.N., Integral equations, calculus of variations and its
applications,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Mathematics,  IIT  Roorkee,
Chaos Theory and its Applications
L-T-P-D [C]  3–0–0-0
1.  To equip the students with the basic fundamentals of chaos theory.
2.  Learning and understanding various routes to chaos.
3.  To introduce applications of chaos to various physical systems and its introduction
1.  Notion of chaos in one dimension.
2.  Understanding Bifurcation theory and different routes to chaos.
3.  Two dimensional flows, phase portraits and chaos in higher dimension.
Discrete Dynamical Systems[16 Lectures]: One dimensional maps, Fixed points, periodic
points and Stability, Basin of Attraction, Bifurcation, period doubling and route to chaos,
Sharkovsky’s  theorem,  Li-Yorke  Theorem,  Lorentz  System  and  chaos,  Chaos  in  one
dimension,  density  of  periodic  points,  transitivity,  sensitive  dependence  on  initial
conditions, cantor’s set, conjugacy, symbolic dynamics, Various notions of chaos,  Phase
space diagrams, Linear Systems and their stability.
Continuous  Dynamical  Systems[14  Lectures]:  One  dimensional  flows,  chaos  in  one
dimension,  Fixed  points  and  Stability,  Flows  on  the  circle,  Bifurcation,  Saddle  node
Bifurcation,  Transcritical  Bifurcation,  Pitchfork  Bifurcation,  Hopf  Bifurcation,  phase
portraits,    existence  and  uniqueness,  fixed  points  and  linearization,  conservative
systems, limit cycles, Poincare-Bendixson Theorem.
Fractals  and  Dynamical  Systems[12  Lectures]:  Fractals,  cantor  set,  dimension  of  self-
similar fractals, Box dimension, correlation dimension, Iterated Function System, Collage
Theorem and Image Compression, Julia and Mandelbrot Sets.
1.  Saber  N.    Elaydi,  Discrete  Chaos:  With  Applications  in  Science  and  Engineering,
CRC Press, Second Edition.
2.  Steven  H.    Strogatz,  Nonlinear  Dynamics  and  Chaos:    With  Applications  to
Physics, Biology, Chemistry and Engineering, Westview Press, First edition.
1.  H  Nagashima  and  Y  Baba,  Introduction  to  Chaos:    Physics  and  Mathematics  of
Chaotic Phenomena, CRC Press; First edition.
2.  G.  Stuck  and  Michael  Brin,  Introduction  to  Dynamical  Systems,  Cambridge
University Press; First edition
Online Course Material
2.  Banerjee  S.  (IIT  Kharagpur),  Chaos,  Fractals  and  Dynamic  Systems,
Machine Learning and Pattern
L-T-P-D [C]  3–0–0-0
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the mathematical and statistical techniques used in pattern recognition.
2.  Impart knowledge on differentiate among various pattern recognition techniques.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Formulate high dimensional feature vectors from observations.
2.  Select  an  appropriate  pattern  analysis  tool  for  analysing  data  in  a  given  feature
3.  Apply  pattern  analysis  tools  to  practical  applications  and  detect  patterns  in  the
Introduction  [2  Lectures]:  Definitions,  data  sets  for  Pattern  Recognition,  Different
Paradigms of Pattern Recognition.
Bayes  Decision  Theory  [8  Lectures]:  Bayes  Decision  Theory:  Bayes  decision  rule,
Minimum  error  rate  classification,  Normal  density  and  discriminant  functions,  Bayesian
Generative  Methods  [8  Lectures]:  Maximum  Likelihood  and  Bayesian  Parameter
Estimation, Nonparametric techniques.
Discriminative  Methods  [8  Lectures]:  Distance-based  methods,  Linear  Discriminant
Functions, Artificial Neural Networks, Support Vector Machines.
Clustering and Principal Component Analysis [8 Lectures]: k-means clustering, Gaussian
Mixture Modeling, EM-algorithm, PCA, Kernel PCA, Probabilistic PCA.
Combining  Classifiers  [8  Lectures]:  Bagging  and  Boosting,  Adaboost,  Bayesian  Model
1.  Duda, R. O., Hart, P. E. and Stork, D., Pattern Classification 2/e, Wiley, 2002.
2.  Bishop, C., Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer, 2006.
1.  Theodoridis,  S.  and  Koutroumbas,  K.  (2008)  Pattern  Recognition,  Edition  4.
2.  MacKay,  D.J.C.  (2004)  Information  Theory,  Inference  and  Learning  Algorithms,
Cambridge University Press.
3.  Cristianini,  N.  and  Taylor,  J.  S.  (2000)  An  Introduction  to  Support  Vector
Machines, Cambridge University Press.
Online Course Material
Numerical solutions of Partial Differential
Offered for  M.Tech.(DCS)/PhD (MA)
Prerequisite  Partial Differential Equations
The Instructor will introduce
1.  finite difference schemes for numerical solutions of partial differential equations
2.  carry out numerical analysis of various finite difference schemes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  apply  finite  difference  schemes  for  numerical  solution  of  partial  differential
2.  carry out error analysis and stability analysis of finite difference schemes
Fractal 1: Numerical methods for PDE (MAL8XX1)
[8  Lectures]  Characterization  of  PDEs,  Finite  difference  methods  for  elliptic,  parabolic
and hyperbolic problems.
[6  Lectures]Stability,  consistency  and  convergence  theory,  dissipation  and  dispersion,
Fractal 2: Numerical Analysis for PDE (MAL8XX2)
Parabolic  equations  [6  Lectures]:  Fourier  analysis  of  the  error,  Alternating  direction
Elliptic  equations  [6  Lectures]:  Stability  analysis  by  the  energy  method,  Error  analysis
with a maximum principle, asymptotic error estimates, convergence result
Hyperbolic  equations[10  Lectures]:  CFL  condition,  Von  Neumann  stability  Analysis,
upwind  scheme,  Lax-Wendroff  scheme,  leap-frog  scheme,  Hamiltonian  systems  and
Numerical  linear  algebra[6  Lectures]:  Classical  iterative  Methods  for  solving  linear
systems,  large  sparse  linear  systems,  GMRES  algorithm,  preconditioned  Conjugate
Gradient  method,  multigrid  method  (overview),  Newton's  method  and  its  variations  for
solving nonlinear systems.
1.  Quarteroni, A. and Valli, A. , Numerical Approximation of Partial Differential
Equations, Springer, 1997
2.  Morton, K. W.  and Mayers, D. F. , Numerical solution of partial differential
equations, CUP, 2005
1.  Thomas,  J.  W.  ,  Numerical  partial  differential  equations:  Finite  difference
methods, Springer, 1995
2.  Trefethen, L. N. and David Bau III, Numerical Linear Algebra, SIAM, 1997
Online Course Material
1.  Nayak,  A.  K.,  Numerical  methods:  Finite  Difference  Approach,  NPTEL  Course,