Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Curriculum of UG programme in Materials Engineering
Addressing  continuously  evolving  demands  for  materials  in  the  emerging  areas  such  as,  energy,
aerospace,  defence,  healthcare,  transport,  etc.  requires  engineers  with  thorough  understanding  and
knowledge of the materials.  To cater to this requirement, the Department of Metallurgical and Materials
Engineering  at  IIT  Jodhpur  envisions  to  impart  high-quality  education  in  the  areas  of  Materials
Engineering.  The  B.Tech.  program  in  Materials  Engineering  offers  a  broad-based  academic  curriculum
designed to attract highly motivated students interested in the emerging area of Materials and the program
is committed to impart high-quality education in designing, processing and development, characterization
and evaluation of advanced materials, and process metallurgy, so that the students can contribute to the
The  B.Tech.  program  in  Materials  Engineering  educates  and  trains  students  to  understand  the
scientific principles that govern the relationships among extraction, processing, structure, properties, and
performance of materials. The undergraduate Materials Engineering curriculum encompasses four major
1.  Structural materials
2.  Functional materials
3.  Computational materials engineering
4.  Process metallurgy.
The proposed UG curriculum consists of foundational courses, and core and electives from all four major
streams. The foundational courses form the base of the program and enables the student to take program
core  and  program  elective  courses  from  the  four  major  streams.  With  such  a  broad  curriculum  with
sufficient subject depth for an undergraduate program, the B.Tech. program aims to provide students with
a  solid  academic  foundation  to  address  the  needs  in  materials  area  and  encourages  them  to  pursue
research in the new and emerging areas. In the curriculum, an emphasis is given to the emerging areas in
materials  engineering  such  as  computational  materials  engineering,  energy  materials,  and  advanced
structural materials. Additionally, to enable the students to pursue their interest in one of the four major
streams,  the program structure  allows students to  specialize in one  of the  above  mentioned streams of
Materials Engineering. The students can obtain a Departmental Specialization after completing additional
20  credits  beyond  the  regular  B.Tech.  program  requirement.  This  ensures  depth  along  with  sufficient
breadth in the curriculum. This curriculum is expected to equip the students with relevant experimental
and computational skillsets relevant to the industry and will enable the graduates to innovate and address
present day materials challenges to meet the future needs of the country.
2. Objective of the program
1. To impart education on the core concepts in Materials Engineering along with providing
sufficient breadth of knowledge in the traditional as well as emerging areas of materials
2. To train students on experimental techniques for studying materials engineering
3. To provide students sufficient analytical and computational skills to address materials
4. To introduce an early sense of attitude towards technology development and its lifecycle
5. To inculcate an attitude towards the commitment to engineering ethics, continued learning, and
6. To enable students to optionally specialise in one of the four areas of  focus:
a. Structural materials
b. Functional materials
c. Computational materials engineering
d. Process metallurgy.
3. Expected Graduate Attribute
▪  Overall understanding of atomic structure, crystal structure and imperfections in materials
▪  Ability to understand the physical and chemical phenomena or process through thermodynamic
and kinetic principles
▪  Ability to understand the relation between electronic band structure and electrical, optical and
magnetic properties of materials
▪  Broad knowledge on processing of materials and fabrication components following various
processing and manufacturing techniques, and basic skills to characterize the microstructure
▪  Ability to correlate processing-structure-property-performance of materials and their processing
▪  Knowledge about the process of extraction of ferrous and non-ferrous metals from ore
▪  Ability to use various simulation tools to design materials and predict material behaviour for a
better understanding of materials
▪  Ability to design and execute technical projects
▪  Skills to communicate engineering concepts and ideas to peers
▪  Appreciation and adherence to professional ethics
4. Learning Outcome
▪  Ability to apply principles of thermodynamics and kinetics to understand, design and process
▪  Ability to use computational and analytical modelling techniques to predict various properties of
▪  Ability to use materials testing and characterization techniques to validate structure-property-
performance correlation in materials at various length scales
▪  Understanding of electronic structure of materials and ability to correlate electronic structure
with transport properties of materials
▪  Knowledge of processing parameters for the extraction of ferrous and non-ferrous metals, and
knowledge to comprehend the process cycle to convert raw material to a final product
▪  Ability to understand materials processing and process scale up
5. Topic clouds
The major topics from the individual courses are presented here in the form of a topic cloud.
Modelling,  Boundary  value  problem,
Diffusion type problem, Wave Propagation
Problem,  Finite  Difference,  Computation,
simulations, Calculation of Phase diagram,
Thermodynamic  Database,  Solidification
simulation,  Alloy  Design,  Modelling,
Machine  learning,  Feature  identification,
Informatics,  Finite  Element  Analysis,
Displacement formulation, Stress analysis
structure,  Density  of  States,
Semiconductors,  Dopants,  metal-oxides,
Materials,  Fuel  cells,  Hydrogen  Storage,
Thermoelectrics,  Carbon  based  materials,
Shape  memory  alloys,  smart  materials,
functionally graded materials, self-healing
materials,  smart  textiles,  Nanomaterials,
Biomaterials,  Tissue  materials,  Implants,
Processing, functional Properties
Foundational and Core topics
Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Biology,
Signals  and  systems,  Machine  learning,
Equations,  Computation,  Data  structure,
algorithm,  Thermodynamics,  Mechanics,
Materials  Selection,  Phase  Diagram,
Functional  Properties,  Diffusion,  Mass
Transfer,  Heat  Transfer,  Fluid  Flow,
Nucleation  and  Growth,  Solidification,
Diffraction,  Microscopy,  Spectroscopy,
Thermal Analysis, Materials Processing
Defects  in  Solids,  Plastic  Deformation,
Strengthening  Mechanisms,  Mechanical
Properties,  Failure  of  Materials,  Steels,
Microstructure,  Properties,  Corrosion,
Ceramics,  Refractories,  Glasses,  Sintering,
Coatings, Abrasives, 3D printing, Materials
for  3D  Printing  Process,  Additive
manufacturing, Casting techniques, gating
design,  casting  defects,  Fusion  welding,
Solid  state  welding,  Microstructure  and
Properties of weld zone
Refining, Mineral processing, comminution
and  screening,  separation,  concentration,
Chemical  Kinetics,  Chemical
Diffusion  control,  Rate  controlling  step,
Ladle metallurgy, Degassing, Ingot defects,
interaction,  Energy  and  Mass  Balance,
Process  control,  Leaching,  Phase  stability
diagram,  Metal  recovery  processes,  Metal
6. Unique skillsets targeted
Computational approaches, which will enable
(iii)  Designing of industrial processes
Designing of materials and components for engineering applications
Prediction of properties of materials
Experimental techniques for
Materials testing and characterization
Performance evaluation and enhancement
7. Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed courses
Table 1. Mapping of topic clouds with proposed courses
Numerical Methods, Differential
Laws of thermodynamics, Intensive and
Extensive properties, State variable and
learning,  Classification, Artificial neural
Deformation  and  Strain,  Stress,  Linear
elasticity,  Combined  loading,  Energy
properties,  Soft  matter,  Surfaces  and
Data structure, algorithm, searching and
Phase  equilibria,  Thermodynamics  of
Solutions,  Phase  diagram,  Reaction
Nucleation and growth, Phase diagram,
Thermodynamics and kinetics of  Phase
transformation, Diffusion, Solidification,
Microscopy,  Spectroscopy,  Thermal
Casting, Solidification, Forming, Joining,
Introduction to Machine
Program Core (PC)
Mechanics of Solids
linked Science core
Introduction to Condensed
Data Structure and
Materials Science and
Program Core (PC)
Materials at Equilibrium
Program Core (PC)
Program Core (PC)
Program Core (PC)
Materials processing and
Defects  in  solids,  Plastic  Deformation,
Strengthening  Mechanisms,  Failure  of
Materials, Failure prevention
Steels,  Processing,  Physical  Metallurgy,
Electrochemistry,  Corrosion,  Forms  of
Corrosion,  Corrosion  induced  failure,
Oxidation, Corrosion Prevention
Polymerization,  Processing,  Rheology,
Matrix, Reinforcements, Fibre-Matrix
interface, Processing, laminae and
laminates, Properties, Nanocomposites
Oxide and non-oxide Ceramics,
Refractories, Glasses, Sintering,
3D printing, Materials for 3D Printing
Process, Additive manufacturing,
Casting techniques, solidification, Heat
flow, fluid flow, gating design, casting
Joining, Fusion welding, Solid state
welding, Microstructure of weld zone,
Mechanical Properties of weld zone
Creep, Oxidation and Hot Corrosion,
Band structure, Density of States,
Semiconductors, Dopants, metal-oxides,
organics, carbon nanotubes, electronic
Battery Materials, Fuel cells, Hydrogen
Storage, Solar cells, Supercapacitors,
Thermoelectrics, Carbon based
Shape memory alloys, smart polymers,
smart ceramics, functionally graded
materials, self-healing materials, bio-
medical sensing, electrostrictive and
magnetostrictive materials, smart
composites, smart textiles
Semiconductors processing, Synthesis
and processing of 2D Materials
Electrodes and Electrolytes,
Electrochemical Cell, Primary and
secondary batteries, Thermodynamics
Nanomaterials, Synthesis, Processing,
Characterization, Properties of
Program Core (PC)
Mechanical Behaviour of
and Properties of Steels
Degradation of Materials
Polymeric Materials and
Ceramics and Glass
3D Printing: Material
Processing and Properties
Casting and Solidification
Metallurgy of Joining
Program Core (PC)
Program Core (PC)
Materials for Energy
Conversion and Storage
Program Core (PC)
Smart Materials (both
structure property and
electronic property of
Synthesis and Processing of
Semiconductors and 2D
Department of Chemistry)
Biodegradability, Tissue materials,
Coatings, Thin films, Deposition,
value  problem,  Partial
Differential  Equation,  Diffusion  type
problem,  Finite  Difference  method,
Calculation of Phase diagram,
Solidification simulation, Alloy Design
Total energy calculations, Electronic
and Phonon Band Structure
Conserved and Non-Conserved Order
Parameter, Phase Transitions,
Scientific Data, feature identification,
Supervised learning, Materials Design,
Finite Element Analysis, Stiffness
Matrix, Galerkin method, Displacement
formulation, Stress analysis
Transport processes, Metal-Slag
interaction, Ladle and tundish
metallurgy, Continuous Casting
Electrometallurgy, Metal extraction,
Mineral processing, comminution and
screening, separation, concentration
Chemical Kinetics, Transport processes,
Chemical control, Diffusion control,
Rate controlling step
Degassing, Ladle metallurgy, Ingot
defects, Continuous casting
Process phenomena, Metal-slag
interaction, Energy and Mass Balance,
Leaching, Phase stability diagram,
Metal recovery processes, Metal
(Jointly with BSBE)
Program Core (PC)
Surface Engineering (PE)
Computational Modelling of
First Principles Calculations
Phase Field Modelling
Machine Learning for
Materials Design (PE)
Finite Element Methods and
Program Core (PC)
Iron and Steel Making
Program Core (PC)
Extraction of Nonferrous
Kinetics of Metallurgical
Secondary and Special
8. Course categories and credit distribution in the proposed B.Tech. programmes
Table 2. Course categories and credit distribution in the proposed B.Tech. programmes
Regular B.Tech.  Double B.Tech.
Institute Core (I)
Programme Linked (L)
Programme Core (P)
Credit   Total  Credit   Total
Programme Compulsory (PC)
Programme Electives (PE)
B.Tech. Project (PP)
Open Electives (OE)
Engineering Science Elective (EE)
Design/Practical Experience (ND)
Total Graded + Non-Graded
Engineering Science (E)  Engineering Science Core
9. Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 3. Credit Structure for B.Tech. Programmes
Distribution of contact and beyond contact
1 hour of Lecture
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Lab/Project
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc.
10. List of Programme Compulsory Courses
Table 4. Programme Compulsory Courses for Materials Engineering
Mechanics of Solids
Data Structure and Algorithms
Materials at Equilibrium
Mechanical Behaviour of Materials
Iron and Steel Making
Computational Modelling of Materials
Materials Processing and Manufacturing
Materials for Energy Conversion and Storage
Extraction of Nonferrous Metals
Electronic Materials Lab
Physical Metallurgy Lab
Materials Characterization Lab
Computational Modelling of Materials Lab
Materials Processing and Manufacturing Lab
Energy Materials Lab
11. Stream-wise Programme Elective Courses
Table 6. Stream-wise Programme Electives Courses
Processing-Microstructure and Properties of Steels
Degradation and Failure of Materials
Polymeric Materials and Processing
Ceramics and Glass
Casting and Solidification
Metallurgy of Joining
High Temperature Materials
Digital Fabrication (Offered by ME)
Smart Manufacturing (Offered by ME)
Additive Manufacturing (Offered by ME)
Computer Aided Design (Offered by ME)
Design of Machine Elements (Offered by ME)
3D Printing: Material Processing and Properties
Lithium ion Batteries
Synthesis and Processing of Semiconductors and 2D
Magnetism and Magnetic Materials
Nanoscience (Offered by Chemistry)
Cell-Material Interaction (BSBE)
Tissue Engineering (BSBE)
Interfacial Engineering in Soft Matter (CHE)
Quantum Mechanics (PHY)
Advanced Condensed Matter Physics (PHY)
Energy Harvesting Technologies (PHY)
Physics of Solar Cells (PHY)
Modelling of Metallurgical Processes
Machine Learning for Materials Design
Phase field modelling
Industry 4.0: Applications in Metallurgical and
Introduction to Internet of Things (Offered by EE)
Finite Element Methods (Offered by ME)
Artificial Intelligence (CSE)
Deep Learning (CSE)
Optimization (Offered by MA)
Kinetics of Metallurgical Processes
Principles of Process Metallurgy
Secondary and Special Steelmaking
Processing of Rare Earth and Radioactive Materials
Computational Fluid Dynamics (Offered by CH)
Special Topics in Materials Engineering
Specialization to be proposed by the department
The students can obtain a Departmental Specialization after completing additional 20 credits beyond the regular
B.Tech.  program  credit  requirement.  From  the  20  credits,  8  credits  must  be  taken  from  core  areas  of  that
specialization and 12 credits should be taken from the electives within that specialization. 4 elective credits (out of
12) may be taken as elective project, which will allow the student to pursue his/her B.Tech. project in the area of
his/her  specialization.  Therefore,  after  proper  planning,  a  student  opting  for  specialization  may  earn  7  (4
specialization elective project + 3 regular B.Tech. project) credits for B.Tech. project. The specializations will enable
the students to pursue their area of interest and will ensure depth in the curriculum.
Table 7. Specializations List
Name of Specializations
Computational Materials Engineering
Table 8. Specialization concept notes
Structural materials encompass a wide variety of materials whose primary purpose is to support or transmit
load.  Structural  materials  are  used  in  applications  such  as  transportation  (aircraft  and  automobiles),
construction (buildings and roads), or in components used for body protection (helmets and body armor),
energy  production  (turbine  blades),  or  other  smaller  structures  such  as  those  used  in  microelectronics.
Structural materials can be metallic, ceramic, polymeric or a composite.
The  objective  of  offering  this  specialization  to  encourage  students  to  pursue  emerging  area  of  Materials
design,  processing,  and  structure-property  correlation  for  advanced  materials  for  lightweight  structures
subjected to severe environments such as high temperature, wear, high stress and strain rates, etc. to name
a  few.    The  advancement  in  the  microstructural  characterization  has  enabled  investigation  of  materials
properties at different length scales which played a key role in solving the sudden material failure issues in
the industry domain. Apart from structural investigation, structural materials stream provides knowledge
of correlating these microstructural features with the mechanical, physical and electronic properties of the
material.  This  can  be  achieved  by  thorough  understanding  of  different  materials  processing  and
manufacturing techniques at lab as well as industry scales.
Therefore,  the  specialization  will  provide in-depth  education  required  for  designing  advanced  structural
materials  and  processing  conditions  as  per  the  demand  of  the  respective  industry  to  obtain  the  usable
products in a cost-effective manner.  Detailed curriculum for this specialization will be proposed later.
Functional  materials  represent  an  ever-growing  set  of  advanced  materials,  whose  properties  e.g.  shape,
electrical conductivity, mechanical properties, color etc. could be tuned by an external stimulus - thermal,
electrical, mechanical, light etc. These materials are characterized by one or multiple native properties of
their  own,  e.g.  ferroelectricity,  thermoelectricity,  piezoelectricity,  magnetism,  energy  storage  functions,
magneto  and  electrostrictive  materials  and  could  be  found  in  all  classes  of  materials  -  ceramics,  metals,
polymers and organic molecules. Practically all modern-day applications ranging from computers, memory
devices, displays, advanced sensors and MEMS based devices to batteries and shape memory alloys are a
result of the advances in the functional properties of materials.
With the ever-increasing demand for higher performing, more energy efficient and device miniaturization
the functional properties of materials remains the most active areas of research not just in Materials Science
but also cross disciplinary. With the advent of 5G and demand for IoT and AI based technologies and building
towards  a  more  sustainable  world  there  is  an  ever-increasing  demand  for  materials  with  hitherto
unexplored novel functionalities.
The specialization on “Functional Materials” is being designed to impart the students with different facets
of the functional properties of materials and their real-world applications along with a strong emphasis on
the basics of the underlying phenomena. The functional properties of materials are continuously evolving
in a very dynamic world and hence demands a continuously evolving nature of the curricula. Owing to the
importance  of  Functional  Materials  in  today’s  world  we  would  like  to  introduce  a  specialization  on
Functional Materials in our B.Tech program. A detailed curriculum will be proposed later.
Computational Materials Engineering
Computational Modeling approaches provide insights into Materials aspects at atomic, micro, macro length
scales and aid in better understanding of Materials and processes. Developments in the hardware front are
making the computing power more affordable and developments in the theoretical approaches are
broadening the capabilities of Modelling approaches. As a result, computational modeling is playing a key
role in Materials design and discovery. The Computational Materials Engineering (CME) approach
combines all available modelling techniques for improving existing metallurgical processes or properties
of a structural material or a functional material. In this respect, the CME forms a horizontal for different
specializations of Materials Engineering.
Traditional  science-based  modeling  techniques such  as  first-principles  calculations,  molecular  dynamics,
phase field methods, finite element methods, finite difference methods, Calphad methods, etc. have evolved
to give results within acceptable accuracy of the experimental results. Recently, Materials Scientists started
using  data  analysis-based  techniques  in  Materials  design  and  discovery.  The  emerging  data-based
techniques have potential to accelerate the Material Discovery and improve the Materials Processing.
The objective of the CME is to combine the traditional science-based techniques with emerging data based
techniques for improving Materials design and discovery. The CME concept is still in infancy and requires
continuous efforts from all the stakeholders involved to bring it to the state-of-the-art stage. In this direction,
we would like to start a B.Tech. program in Materials Engineering with a specialization in CME. Detailed
curriculum for this specialization will be proposed later.
Process  metallurgy  is  a  specialization  concerned  with  extracting  metals  from  their  ores,  and  the
development, production, and use of metallic materials. Process metallurgy practitioners design complex
metallurgical  reactors  using  principles  of  physics,  thermodynamics,  reaction  kinetics,  and  transport
phenomena.  Designing  of  such  metallurgical  reactors  also  requires  skills
experimentation  and  computer  simulation  techniques.  In  the  years  to  come,  extraction  of  metal  will  be
extremely difficult due to the decreasing ore grade and strict laws to regulate the environmental impact of
metallurgical emissions. In fact, the future trend in extractive metallurgy is to recover metals, even in parts-
per-million levels, from wastes such as used catalysts and more importantly the ever-increasing volume of
A process metallurgy expert acquires multifaceted skills and hence the careers of process metallurgists
may not be restricted to steel, copper, or aluminum plants. In fact, they can also design materials
processing operations such as casting, powder metallurgy, and heat treatment. Semiconductor and waste
processing facilities could also provide job openings. Experts in a computer simulation with a sound
knowledge of transport phenomena have job opportunities spanning across other engineering branches
too. Detailed curriculum for this specialization will be proposed later.
12. Curriculum of B.Tech. Materials Engineering
Table 9. Curriculum of B.Tech. in Materials Engineering
Engineering Visualization  0-0-2
IS  Mathematics I
NE  Engineering Design I
NH  Communication Skill I
Social Connect and
NH  Performing Arts I /Sports
Introduction to Electrical
Introduction to Computer
IS  Mathematics II
NE  Engineering Design II
NH  Communication Skill II
Social Connect and
NH  Performing Arts II/Sports II
IH  Humanities I
PC  Mechanics of Solids
Introduction to Machine
Intro. To Profession
PC  Electronic Materials
PC  Mechanical Behavior of
PC  Phase Transformations
PC  Electronic Materials Lab
PC  Physical Metallurgy Lab
PC  Energy Materials Lab
IH  Humanities II
IE  Materials Science &
Fractal 1: Physical
Fractal 2: Polymers
Fractal 3: Corrosion
PC  Data Structure and
PC  Materials at Equilibrium
PC  Materials for Energy
Conversion and Storage
Signals and Systems
Computational Modelling of
PC  Materials Processing and
Extraction of Nonferrous
Iron and Steel Making
Computational Modelling of
PC  Materials Processing and
PE  Programme/Open Elective
NH  Professional Ethics I
PP  B. Tech. Project
IH  Humanities III
NH  Professional Ethics II
IH  Humanities IV
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit   9
Non-Graded Design Credits
Grand Total   15  165
14. Detailed Course Content
Programme Compulsory Courses
14. Detailed Course Content
Program Compulsory Courses
Materials at Equilibrium
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  Provide a basis for describing and understanding the stability of various forms of matter.
2.  Provide a basis for predicting the properties of an equilibrated system as a function of its content and
3.  Establish the conditions for stability of a material and derive its properties.
4.  Control the evolution of microstructures with respect to different parameters.
Phase equilibria [8 lectures]: Criteria for equilibrium, Maxwell relations, One component system, variation of
free energy with temperature and pressure, equilibrium between condensed phases (solid-liquid, solid-
solid), equilibrium between a vapor phase and a condensed phase
Behavior of gases and liquids [6 lectures]: Ideal and non-ideal gases, activity, fugacity, Partial molar quantities,
Raoult’s law and Henry’s law
Solution thermodynamics [8 lectures]: Gibbs Duhem equation, Gibbs free energy of formation of a solution
(ideal, non-ideal), configurational entropy, Regular solution model, statistical model of solutions
Gibbs Free Energy Composition and Phase Diagrams (binary) [8 lectures]: Gibbs free energy and
thermodynamic activity, standard state, criterion for phase stability, Gibbs free energy composition
diagrams, activity-composition diagrams, Application of regular solution model to phase diagrams
Reactions involving gases [6 lectures]: Reaction equilibrium a gas mixture and the equilibrium constant, effect
of pressure and temperature on the equilibrium constant
Reactions involving a condensed phase and a gas phase [6 lectures]: Standard Gibbs free energy variation with
temperature, Ellingham diagrams, effect of phase transformations
1.  Gaskell, D.R. and Laughlin, D.E., (2018), Introduction to Thermodynamics of Materials, 6th Edition CRC
1.  Hillert, M., (2008), Phase Equilibria, Phase Diagrams and Phase Transformations Their Thermodynamic
Basis, Second edition, Cambridge University Press
2.  Dehoff, R., (2006), Thermodynamics in Materials Science, 2nd Edition, CRC Press
Online Course Material
3.  Ceder, G., and Anton Van der Ven, A., 3.20 Materials at Equilibrium (SMA 5111). Fall 2003. Massachusetts
Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-
Department  Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce and discuss about different electronic materials, devices and processes.
2. Motivate students to learn more about advanced electronic devices and technologies
The students are expected to gain:
1.   Basics of electronic structures of different materials.
2.  Understanding the physics of electronic materials and devices.
Physics  of  Electronic  Materials  [12  lectures]:  Introduction,  electronic  structures,  basics  of  quantum  mechanics,
energy band theory, Free Electron Bands, Band structure in metals and semiconductors, Development of band
gap, Fermi energy levels, Fermi surface, density of states and charge transport
Semiconductor  Materials  [8  lectures]:  Intrinsic  Semiconductors:  carrier  concentration,  mobility,  temperature
dependence;  Extrinsic  semiconductors:  Dopant  types  and  materials,  Donors  and  Acceptors,  temperature
dependence of number of carriers, Effective mass, Compound Semiconductors
Electronic  devices  [4  lectures]:  p-n  junctions,  metal-semiconductor  contacts,  metal-insulator-semiconductor
capacitors, bipolar junction transistors, junction field-effect transistors, MOSFETs and logics.
Other electronic materials [8 lectures]: III-V and II-VI semiconductors, metal oxides, organics, carbon nanotubes
and 2D semiconductors.
Optical properties of materials & Applications [10 lectures]: Optical properties of materials: optical constants, index
of  refraction,  absorbance,  reflectivity,  transmissivity,  Hagen-Rubens  relation;  atomistic  theory,  harmonic
oscillators.  Quantum  mechanical  treatment  of  the  optical  properties:  absorption,  optical  spectra  of  materials.
Applications  of  the  optical  properties  of  materials:  Kramers-Kronig  analysis,  reflection  spectra,  Lasers,  light-
emitting diodes, integrated optoelectronics, waveguides, modulators, switches.
1.  Streetman,B.G., Banerjee,S. (2001) Solid state electronic devices, Prentice-Hall of India.
2.  R.E. Hummel, Electronic Properties of Materials, Springer-Verlag, 3rd edition, 2001.
1.  Sze,S. M., Ng,K.K. (2006) Physics of semiconductor devices, John Wiley & sons.
Online Course Material
1.  Parasuraman  Swaminathan,  Electronic  materials,  devices  and  fabrication,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Mechanical Behavior of Materials
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  To provide background on the mechanisms of deformation in engineering materials, and on the
evolution of material microstructure when subjected to mechanical stress during materials processing
and engineering applications
1.  Ability to design materials with improved mechanical properties and identify failure mechanisms in
materials for engineering applications
2.  To measure important mechanical properties and correlate with the microstructure
Continuum Theory of Deformation [2 lectures]: Stress and strain tensor, Generalized Hooke’s Law, Yield Criteria
Lattice Defects [6 lectures]: Vacancies and interstitials, dislocations: Edge and Screw, stress fields around edge and
screw dislocations, strain energy of dislocations, force on dislocation, dislocation-dislocation interaction
Plastic Deformation  [8  lectures]:  Slip  in  a  perfect  lattice,  slip  by  dislocation movement,  Critical  Resolved  Shear
stress, cross-slip and climb, deformation of single crystals, dislocations in different crystal structures, twinning
Strengthening Mechanisms [8 lectures]: Grain boundary strengthening, strain hardening, solid-solution hardening,
age-hardening, martensite strengthening
Fracture  and  Toughening  Mechanisms  [6  lectures]:  theoretical  fracture  strength  and  Griffith’s  Law,  modes  of
fracture,  fracture  toughness,  brittle  and  ductile  fracture,  toughening  mechanisms  in  metals,  ceramics,  and
Fatigue and Creep [6 lectures]: Introduction to fatigue, stress and strain-life approach, cyclic stress-strain curve,
fatigue crack propagation, high temperature deformation, fatigue-creep interaction
Deformation  of  Polymers  [6  lectures]:  Elastic  deformation  in  semi  crystalline  polymers,  nonlinear  elastic
deformation, shear banding and crazing, stress-strain curves
1.  Courtney, T. H., (2005), Mechanical Behaviour of Materials, 2nd Edition, Waveland Press Inc.
2.  Dieter, G.E., (1989), Mechanical Metallurgy, SI Metric Edition, McGraw-Hill Book Company.
3.  Shetty, M. N., (2013), Dislocations and Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Prentice Hall India Learning
1.  Hertzberg, R.W., (2013), Deformation and Fracture Mechanics of Engineering Materials, 5th Edition, Wiley
2.  McClintock,F.A., and Argon,A.S., (1966), Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Addison-Wesley.
Online Course Material
1.  Van Vilet, K., 3.22 Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Spring 2008. Massachusetts Institute of
Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-engineering/3-
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
The Instructor will:
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  Explain  the  importance  of  phase  transformations  in  solid  and  liquid  state  and  their  applications  through
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the microstructure evolution during the phase transformation
2.  Understand  the  variation  of  properties  with  the  microstructure  evolution  towards  developing  heat
Thermodynamics and Kinetics [6 Lectures]: free energy, order of transformation, driving force, homogeneous and
heterogeneous nucleation, growth kinetics, coarsening, precipitation
Phase Transformation during Solidification [4 Lectures]: Eutectic and Peritectic Transformation
Heat-Treatment of Ferrous and Nonferrous Metals [6 Lectures]: Annealing, Normalizing, Hardening and Tempering,
Interfaces [4 Lectures]: atomic mechanisms of diffusion, activation energy, interfacial free energy, types of interface
(coherent, semi-coherent and incoherent interfaces), interface migration
Diffusional  Phase  Transformations  in  Solids  [14  Lectures]:  austenite,  transformation  of  austenite,  TTT  diagram,
eutectoid  transformation,  pearlite  and  bainite  transformation,  order-disorder  transformation,  precipitation
hardening, spinodal decomposition and massive transformation
Diffusionless Phase Transformations in Solids [8 Lectures]: Martensite transformation: characteristics and nature,
morphology,  crystallography,  theory  of  nucleation  and  growth,  and  pre-martensite  phenomena,  martensitic
transformation in steel. Martensite in non-Ferrous systems-thermoelastic martensite and shape memory effect.
1.  Raghavan,V., (1987), Solid State Phase Transformations, 1st edition, Prentice Hall India,.
2.  Porter,D.A., Easterling,K.E., and Sherif,M.Y., (2009), Phase Transformation in Metals and Alloys, 3rd edition,
3.  Abbaschian,R., Abbaschian,L., and Reed-Hill,R.E., (2009), Physical Metallurgy Principles, 4th edition, Cengate
4.  Rajan,T.V.,  Sharma,C.P.,  and  Sharma,A.,  (2011),  Heat  Treatment:  Principles  and  Techniques,  2nd  edition,
Prentice Hall India
1.  Khachaturyan,A.G., Theory of Structural Transformations in Solids, 1st edition, Dover publications, 2008.
2.  Avner, S.H., Introduction to Physical Metallurgy, 2nd edition, McGraw Hill Education, 2017
Online Course Material
1.  Gururajan,M.P.,  Phase  Transformations  and  Heat  Treatment,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Institute  of  Technology  Bombay,
Metallurgical  Engineering  and  Materials  Science,
Iron and Steel Making
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  Explain principles of thermodynamics and process metallurgy involved in traditional and advanced iron
and steel making processes
1.  Understand the basics of process metallurgy involved in iron and steel making processes
2.  Be cognizant of advanced iron making and steel making processes in industries
Introduction  to  Iron  Making  and  steelmaking  [10  lectures]:  concept  of  integrated  steel  plant,  different  types  of
ironmaking processes, agglomeration techniques, basic thermodynamics, kinetics and transport phenomena
in iron and steelmaking processes
Transport  Processes  in  Blast  Furnace  [8  lectures]:  temperature,  burden  distribution,  and  aerodynamics  of  blast
furnace, physical and chemical; processes in upper and lower zones of blast furnace
Alternative  Iron  Making  Processes  [8  lectures]:  direct  reduction  process-DRI,  HBI,  smelting  reduction  process-
Corex, Romelt, HiSmelt, Finex etc.
Modern Steelmaking Processes [10 lectures]: basic oxygen furnace steelmaking, Electric Arc Furnace, and induction
Secondary  Steelmaking  Processes  [6  lectures]:  deoxidation,  ladle  and  tundish  Metallurgy,  continuous  casting,
1.  Ghosh,A., and Chatterji,A., (2008), Ironmaking and Steelmaking: Theory and Practice, Prentice-Hall (India)
2.  Turkdogan,E.T., (1997), A Text Book of Steelmaking, Academic Press, London Shetty, M. N., (2013),
Dislocations and Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Prentice Hall India Learning Private Limited
3.  Chatterjee,A., (1994), Beyond the Blast Furnace, CRC Press
1.  Ghosh,A., (2000), Secondary Steelmaking, CRC Press, Boca Raton
Online Course Material
1. Muzumdar,D., and Koria,S.C., Steelmaking, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Material Science and
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/113104013/
2. Gupta,G.S., Iron Making, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Materials Engineering, Indian Institute of
Science Bangalore, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/113108079/
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain  the  principle  of  the  instruments  and  methods  for  characterizing  different  materials  and  their
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Know the basic working principles of various instruments and use the same while performing experiments
2.  Choose the characterization methods based on the requirement and performance
Light Optical Microscopy [6 Lectures]: polarization microscopy, phase contrast microscopy, DIC Microscopy and
Diffraction Techniques [6 Lectures]: X-Ray Diffraction, Electron Diffraction
Electron  Microscopies  [8  Lectures]:  Scanning  electron  microscopy  (SEM)  &  transmission  electron  microscopy
Scanning Probe Microscopy [6 Lectures]: scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM) & atomic force microscopy (AFM)
Spectroscopic Characterization [6 Lectures]: UV-VIS-NIR, optical emission, XRF, FTIR, and Raman spectroscopy
Surface Characterization [6 Lectures]: Auger electron spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
Thermal  Analysis  [4  Lectures]:  thermal  mechanical  analysis  (TMA),  differential  scanning  calorimetry  (DSC),
thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA), differential thermal analysis (DTA)
1.  Zhang,S., Li,L. and Kumar,A., (2008), Materials Characterization Techniques, , CRC Press
2.  Cullity, B.D., Stock, S.R., (2014), Elements of X-Ray Diffraction, 3rd Edition, Pearson Education Limited
1.  Evans,C., Brundle.R. and Wilson, (1992), Encyclopaedia of Materials Characterization: Surfaces, Interfaces, Thin
Films (Materials Characterization Series), Butterworth-Heinemann,
2.  Kaufmann,E.N., (2012), Characterization of Materials, 3 Volume Set, 2nd Edition, Wiley
3.  Egerton,R., (2016), Physical Principles of Electron Microscopy: An Introduction to TEM, SEM and AEM, 2nd ed.
4.  Hwang,J-Y, Monteiro,S.N., Bai,C., Carpenter,J.S., Cai,M., Firrao,D., Kim,B-G., (2012), Characterization of Minerals,
Metals and Materials, Wiley
Online Course Materials
1.  Shankaran,S., Materials Characterization, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Metallurgical &
2.  Alagarsamy,P.,  Characterization  of  Materials,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Physics,
Indian Institute of Technology,  Guwahati, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/115103030/
3.  Biswas,K.  and  Gurao,N.P.,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Advanced  Characterization  Techniques,
Department  of  Materials  Science  and  Engineering,   Indian  Institute  of  Technology,  Kanpur,
4.  Barbastathis,G., Smith,H. and Berggren,K., Submicrometer and Nanometer Technology. Spring 2006.
Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology:  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  https://ocw.mit.edu.  License:
Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
Computational Modelling of Materials
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L–T–P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Program Compulsory (PC)
1.  Introduce modelling in the context of Materials Engineering
2.  Introduce the theory behind the first-principles calculations
3.  Create awareness of the opportunities and limitations of Molecular dynamics simulations
1.  Ability to formulate model and solve initial value and boundary value problems
2.  Understand the working principles of the first-principles calculations and molecular dynamics
3.  Simulate materials using the first-principles calculations and molecular dynamics
Introduction to Modelling in Materials [14 lectures]: Types of linear PDEs, Modelling Diffusion type problems-
Derivation of Heat Equation, Boundary Conditions, Separation of Variables, Infinite diffusion problem by
integral transform, 1-D wave equation-Boundary conditions, Steady state problems, Numerical solutions-
Finite Difference Method
Molecular Dynamics [14 lectures]: Molecular dynamics: Applications, basic concepts, potential energy
functions, integration algorithms, temperature control, boundary conditions, neighbour lists, initialization,
equilibrium, geometry optimization, static properties, dynamical properties, analysis of results, visualisation
First Principle Calculations-2 [14 lectures]: Notation & Mathematics: Dirac notation, Fourier transformation,
Function and functional, Quantum mechanics: Schrodinger equation, Born-Oppenheimer approximation,
Mean-field methods, Kohn-Sham method: Density functional theory, Hohenberg-Kohn theorems, Kohn-Sham
method, Exchange correlation functional, Structure relaxation, Smearing methods, Electronic band structure,
1.  Rappaz,  M.,  Bellet,  M.,  Deville,  M.,  Numerical  Modeling  in  Materials  Science  and  Engineering,  Springer
Science & Business Media, 2010.
2.  Frenkel, D., Smit, B.,  Understanding Molecular Simulation: From  Algorithms to Applications, 2nd Edition,
3.  Lee, J. G., Computational Materials Science: An Introduction, 2nd edition, CRC Press, 2016.
1.  Sholl, D. S., and Steckel, J. A., Density Functional Theory: A Practical Introduction, 1st Edition, Wiley, 2009.
2.  Parr,  R.G.,  and  Yang,  W.,  Density-Functional  Theory  of  Atoms  and  Molecules,  1st  Edition,  Oxford  Science
3.  Lesar, R., Introduction to Compuational Materials Science
Online Course Material
1.  Ceder,  G.  and  Marzari,  N.,  3.320  Atomistic  Computer  Modeling  of  Materials  (SMA  5107).  Spring  2005.
Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology:  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  https://ocw.mit.edu.  License:  Creative
Materials Processing and Manufacturing
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
The Instructor will:
Program Compulsory (PC)
1. Introduce the various industrially relevant materials processing and manufacturing techniques
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the microstructure evolution during the phase transformation
2.  Understand  the  variation  of  properties  with  the  microstructure  evolution  towards  developing  heat
Bulk  Processing  of  Materials  [14  lectures]:  Thermodynamics  of  solidification,  pure  metal  solidification,  Alloy
Solidification:  Constitutional  undercooling,  dendritic  growth.  Structure  of  casting  and  ingots,  Types  of  casting,
Heat transfer, Joining- Welding and its types, Brazing and Soldering, Microstructural mechanisms associated with
metals joining operations, Powder Metallurgy, Additive manufacturing of metals.
Bulk  Metal  Forming  Techniques  [14  lectures]:  Rolling-  Analysis  of  rolling,  hot  and  cold  rolling,  microstructural
changes  during  rolling,  rolling  defects,  rolling  mill;  Forging-  open  and  closed  die  forging;  lubricated  and  non-
lubricated extrusion.; wire-drawing- die design and materials, optimal die angle, sheet metal forming- bending,
stretching and deep drawing, anisotropy parameter, forming limit diagram, microstructural changes
Processing of Ceramics and Polymers [14 lectures]: Ceramic processing: Powder preparations, solid state reactions,
Sintering,  Colloidal  processing,  Co-precipitation  method,  Sol-Gel  process,  Porous  ceramics  and  ceramic  fibres.
Polymer processing: Mixing and compounding, extrusion process, moulding processes, thermoforming, roller and
blade coating, textile/fiber spinning technology, Additive manufacturing of polymers and ceramics.
1.  Flemings,M.C., (1974), Solidification Processing, Mcgraw-Hill Book Company
2.  Dieter,G.E., (1986), Mechanical Metallurgy, 3rd Edition, McGraw Hill Book Company
3.  El-Kareh, B., Fundamentals of semiconductor processing technology, 3rd Edition, 1995, Springer US
1.  Chalmers,B., (1967), Principles of Solidification, Wiley
2.  Stefanescu,D.M., (2015), Science and Engineering of Casting Solidification, 3rd edition, Springer
3.  Hosford,  W.F.,  Caddell,  R.M.,  (2014),  Metal  Forming:  Mechanics  and  Metallurgy,  4th  Edition,  Cambridge
Online Course Material
1.  Shekhar,  S.,  Fundamentals  of  Materials  Processing  (Part–1),  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
2.  Shekhar,  S.,  Fundamentals  of  Materials  Processing  (Part–2),  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Materials for Energy Conversion and Storage
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Program Elective (PE)
The course outlines in a nutshell:
1.  Different modes of energy conversion and storage
2.  Development of materials with time and different applications, scale, energy and power density
The students are expected to gain knowledge on:
1.   Structure processing property performance relationship of the energy materials developed over time.
2.   Different modes of energy conversion and storage with respect to scale, cost, energy and power density
Introduction  [2  lectures]:  Classification,  Overview  of  Electrical  (static),  Electrochemical,  Thermal,  Mechanical,
Photo-electrochemical (includes biological) energy storage.
Electrical (static) [4 lectures]: Capacitor, Leyden Jar, corona discharge, dielectrics.
Electrochemical conversion and storage [14 lectures]: Introduction to Electrolytic capacitor, Electrochemical cell
(Battery), Supercapacitor, primary and secondary batteries, Li-ion battery, fuel cells.
Photo-electrochemical conversion [4 lectures]: Photo-electric effect, artificial photo synthesis, semiconductor based
solar cells, dye-synthesized solar cells.
Thermal  conversion  and  storage  [8  lectures]:  Solar  thermal  energy  conversion,  sterling  engines,    Molten  salt
technology, eutectic mixtures, Phase-change materials, thermoelectric materials.
Mechanical storage [6 lectures]: Pumped storage, gravity batteries, Compressing air storage, flywheels.
Carbon Materials for Energy conversion and storage [4 lectures]: Hybridization and carbon allotropes overview,
Synthesis  and  characterization  of  carbon  allotropes,  Functionalization  of  carbon  materials,  Carbon
nanomaterials for energy conversion and storage.
1.  Cheong K.Y., Impellizzeri,G and Fraga,M.A., (2018), Emerging Materials for Energy Conversion and Storage,
1st Edition, Elsevier
1.  Rosen, M.A., (2012) Energy Storage, Nova
Online Course Materials
1.  Prof.  Bazant  M.,  MITopencourseware:  Electrochemical  Energy  Systems,  MIT  Course  Number  10.626  /
2.  Prof. Pal K., Selection Of Nanomaterials For Energy Harvesting And Storage Application, NPTEL Course
Extraction of Nonferrous Metals
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
Explain principles of thermodynamics and process metallurgy involved in traditional and advanced
processes of nonferrous metal extraction
1.  Understand the basics of extractive metallurgy involved in nonferrous metal extraction processes
Early developments in metal extraction [2 lectures]: Nonferrous metals in Indian history, uses of nonferrous metals,
Sources of nonferrous metals
Principles  of  metals  extraction  [4  lectures]:  Thermodynamic  principles,  homogeneous  and  heterogeneous
reactions, Ellingham diagram, kinetic principles, principles of electro-chemistry
General methods of extraction [10 lectures]: Pyrometallurgy – calcination, roasting and smelting, Hydrometallurgy
– leaching, solvent extraction, ion exchange, precipitation, and electrometallurgy  – electrolysis and electro-
General methods of refining [4 lectures]: Basic approaches, preparation of pure compounds, purification of crude
metal produced in bulk
Extraction of metals from oxide sources [6 lectures]: Basic approaches and special features of specific extraction
processes, extraction of metals such as magnesium, aluminum, tin and ferro-alloying elements, production of
Extraction of metals from Sulphide Ores [6 lectures]: Pyro-metallurgy and hydrometallurgy of sulphides, production
of metals such as copper, lead, zinc, nickel etc.
Extraction of metals from Halides [6 lectures]: Extraction of metals from halides: Production of halides and refining
methods,  Methods  of  extraction  of  metals  such  as  titanium,  rare  earths,  uranium,  thorium,  plutonium,
beryllium, zirconium etc.
Production of precious metals [2 lectures]: Methods applied for gold, silver and Pt group of metals
Waste  Utilization  [2  lectures]:  Secondary  metals  and  utilization  of  wastes, Energy  and  environmental  issues  in
nonferrous metals extraction
1.  Ray, H.S., Sridhar, R. and Abraham, K.P. Extraction of nonferrous metals, Affiliated East West Press Pvt
Ltd., New Delhi (2007)
2.  Dennis, W.H., Extractive Metallurgy, Philosophical Library, New York (1965)
1.  Ray, H.S., and Ghosh, A., Principles of extractive metallurgy, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Delhi, 1991
Online Course Material
1. Ray, H.S., Non-ferrous Extractive Metallurgy, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Materials and
Metallurgical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur,
B.Tech. Materials Engineering
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
The Instructor will:
2.  Provide appreciation to utilize smart materials in context of smart engineering structure
Introduce the family of smart materials along with their mechanisms, design and applications
The students are expected to gain:
Basic understanding of intelligent materials and their utilization
Methodology of newer materials development towards specific applications
Introduction [6 lectures]: Basic definitions, classification of smart materials, modification of material structures,
stimuli for reversible shape and structural transformation
Shape Memory Alloys (SMA) [8 Lectures]: Shape memory and superelasticity effects, Microstructural mechanisms,
Range of SMA, phases and crystal structure, Processing (training), bonding and joining, High temperature SMA,
Magnetic SMA, Giant magnetostrictive material, Thin films, Applications
Polymeric  Smart  Materials  [14  lectures]:  Functionally  graded  polymer  blend,  Smart  performances;  Electro-
conductive  polymers,  Electro-chromatic  Sol-Gel,  Smart  drug  delivery  systems,  Bio-medical  sensing,  Self-
healing materials, Nanoparticles, Porous particles, Smart widows,  Flip-chip under-fill, Magneto-rheological
fluids, Thermo-responsive polymers, Information materials and adaptive architecture, Application in forensic
Ceramic Smart Materials [6 lectures]: Piezoelectric and electrostrictive ceramics, Non-contact ultrasonic material
testing  and  analysis,  Hydrothermal  synthesis  of  smart  ceramics,  Intelligent  control  of  phase  assemblage,
crystal size and morphology
Smart Composites [4 lectures]: Design and characterization of magnetostrictive composites, Carbon nanomaterials
based yarns and nanocomposites, Structural health monitoring and self-healing, Active fiber composites
Smart Textiles [2 lectures]: Smart textile for medicine and health care, Textile based electronic components
Integration  of  Smart  Materials  and  Smart  Structures  [2  lectures]:  Varying  smart  materials  and  multifunctions,
Biotelemetry study, Structure design concepts, Applications
1. Schwartz M. (Ed.) (2009) Smart Materials, CRC Press, Taylor and Francis Group
2.  Hou X. (Ed.) (2016), Design, Fabrication, Properties and Applications of Smart and Advanced Materials, CRC
3.  Elhajjar et al. (Eds.) (2014) Smart Composites Mechanics and Design, LLC, Taylor and Francis Group
1.  Guardia, M., Esteve-Turrillas F.A. (Eds.) (2019) Handbook of Smart Materials in Analytical Chemistry, Vol.
Online Course Material
1.  Bhattacharya B, Smart Materials and Intelligent System Design (Video); IIT Kanpur, 2018,
2. Bhat K.N. et al., Micro and Smart Systems, IISc Bangalore. NPTEL 2012,
Electronic Materials Lab
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  0-0-3 [1.5]
Program Compulsory (PC)
The objective of the course is to introduce the students to different types of electrical and electronic property
characterization and instrumentation.
Upon successful completion of the course students will get a first-hand knowledge of device fabrication and then
measure and analyse the functional properties of the materials.
1.  Impedance Spectroscopy: Impedance Measurements as a function of temperature
2.  Measurement of Dielectric and Ferroelectric properties of Materials
3.  Piezoelectric Effect: Measurement of piezoelectric constants
4.  Preparation of structures using photolithography
5.  Deposition of metallic electrodes using thermal evaporation method
6.  Semiconducting thin films using solution/printing processes
7.  Measuring electrical resistance and sheet resistance of semiconductors
8.  Effect of temperature on the electrical conductivity of semiconductors
9.  Electrical characterization of p-n junction diodes
10. Magnetic Measurements: M-H hysteresis, M vs T measurement
11. Optical Property measurements
Specific Laboratory protocols and handouts will be made for different experiments.
Physical Metallurgy Lab
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
To introduce the students to different types of phase transformations in solid and liquid state experiments and
to  provide  hands-on  training  on  various  mechanical  testing  equipment  to  measure  mechanical  properties  of
The students are expected to have the ability to
1.  Apply  the  knowledge  of  phase  transformation  to  understand  microstructure  and  mechanical  property
evolution in materials
2.  Measure mechanical properties of materials
1.  Uniaxial monotonic stress-strain response of metals, ceramics, and polymers
2.  Hardness via spherical and Vickers indentation and correlation with yield strength
3.  Effects  of  annealing,  normalizing,  and  hardening  heat  treatments  on  microstructure  and  mechanical
properties of steels
4.  The effects of grain size on yield strength
5.  Effects of cold working and subsequent annealing on microstructure and mechanical properties
6.  Hardenability of steels using Jominy end quench test
7.  Age hardening study of a range of aerospace materials (Al-alloys, Ti-alloys, superalloys)
8.  Activation energy and Stored energy calculation for phase transformation
9.  Measurement of quasi-static and indentation fracture toughness
10. Measurement of impact fracture toughness using Charpy/Izod impact test
11. Fracture surface interpretation using SEM
12. Creep of a 60%Sn-40%Pb Solder wire at room temperature
Specific Laboratory protocols and handouts will be made for different experiments.
Materials Characterization Lab
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Compulsory (PC)
Hands on training on instruments and methods for characterizing different materials and their properties
The students are expected to have the ability handle various material characterization tools.
1.  Quantitative metallogrphic analysis of metals, ceramics, polymers and composites
2.  Electropolishing of aluminium alloys
3.  Grain refinement studies using polarization microscope
4.  Crystal structure determination using X-ray Diffraction analysis
5.  Crystallite size measurement using X-ray Diffraction analysis
6.  Indexing of selected area diffraction pattern
7.  Specific heat and enthalpy calculation using DSC analysis
8.  Phase transformation during solidification using thermal analysis
9.  FTIR analysis of ceramic materials
10. UV-Visible spectroscopy analysis of thin films
Specific Laboratory protocols and handouts will be made for different experiments.
Computational Modeling of Materials Lab
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech. 3rd Year
1.  Hands-on training in running simulations.
1.  Simulate materials using numerical methods, molecular dynamics, first-principles calculations
Numerical modelling Exercises
1. One-Dimensional Transient Heat Conduction: Numerical implementation
2. Diffusion equation: finite difference method
3. 1D-wave equation
Molecular dynamics Exercises
1. Calculate the energy in different crystal lattice structures
2. Determination of coefficient of thermal expansion
3. Application of tensile load and visualize the results
4. Determination of bulk modulus
First-principles calculations Exercises
1. Preparation of input files and visualisation of structures
2. Optimisation of simulation parameters.
3. Determination of equilibrium lattice parameter
4. Structure optimisation using a variable-cell method
1.  Rappaz,  M.,  Bellet,  M.,  Deville,  M.,  Numerical  Modeling  in  Materials  Science  and  Engineering,  Springer
Science & Business Media, 2010.
2.  Frenkel, D., Smit, B., Understanding Molecular Simulation: From Algorithms to Applications, 2nd Edition,
3.  Lee, J. G., Computational Materials Science: An Introduction, 2nd edition, CRC Press, 2016.
1.  Sholl, D. S., and Steckel, J. A., Density Functional Theory: A Practical Introduction, 1st Edition, Wiley, 2009.
2.  Parr, R.G., and Yang, W., Density-Functional Theory of Atoms and Molecules, 1st Edition, Oxford Science
Online Course Material
1.  Ceder,  G.  and  Marzari,  N.,  3.320  Atomistic  Computer  Modeling  of  Materials  (SMA  5107).  Spring  2005.
Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology:  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  https://ocw.mit.edu.  License:  Creative
Materials Processing and Manufacturing Lab
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Hands on training on various industrially relevant materials processing and manufacturing techniques
Program Compulsory (PC)
The students are expected to have the ability to handle various material processing and manufacturing equipment.
1.  Injection molding of polymers
2.  Blade coating of polymers
3.  Sol-gel processing of ceramics
4.  Sintering of ceramics
5.  Melting and Casting of Aluminum Alloys
6.  Welding of steels
7.  Welding of Aluminum alloys
8.  Additive manufacturing of polymers
9.  Additive manufacturing of ceramics
Specific Laboratory protocols and handouts will be made for different experiments.
Energy Materials Lab
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  0-0-3 [1.5]
Program Elective (PE)
The course outlines in a nutshell:
1.  Different modes of energy conversion and storage
2.  Development of materials with time and different applications, scale, energy and power density
The students are expected to gain knowledge on:
1.   Structure processing property performance relationship of the energy materials developed over time.
2.   Different modes of energy conversion and storage with respect to scale, cost, energy and power density
1.  Demonstration of static electricity storage with electrostatic generator, Corona effect, Energy storage in
Leyden jar. Fabrication of a capacitor
2.  Charging and discharging of a capacitor, Measuring the capacitance of a Capacitor, Role of capacitor in
voltage stabilizing/regulating, filtering
3.  Fabrication  and  operation  of  a  Lead-acid  battery,  Charge  discharge  voltammetry/EIS  characteristics  of
4.  Fabrication  and  operation  of  a  Lithium-ion  battery,  half-cell  and  full  cell  configuration,  Charge
discharge/voltammetry/EIS characteristics of Lithium-ion battery
5.  Degradation  test  for  lithium  ion  batteries,  Use  of  different  cathodes,  Cell  fabrication  and  dismantling,
observation of structural changes, effect of temperature
6.  Battery aging and self-discharge of lead-acid and lithium ion battery, battery for electric vehicles
7.  Conversion of carbon dioxide into propane through artificial photosynthesis
8.  Experimental Evaluation of a Paraffin as Phase Change Material for Thermal Energy Storage
9.  Modelling and validation of a flywheel energy storage, modelling of gravity assisted storage systems (can
be taken before)
10. Synthesis of different forms of carbon nanomaterials for capacitor, artificial photosynthesis devices and
electrodes for batteries, observation of different morphologies and structural reversibility (demonstration
experiment, make it simple)
Specific Laboratory protocols and handouts will be made for different experiments.
15. Detailed Course Content
Programme Elective Courses
15. Detailed Course Content
Program Elective Courses
Processing-Microstructure and Properties of Steels
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Program Elective (PE)
1.  Describe the processing-structure-property relationship of steels used in engineering applications
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design the processing routes to obtain steel microstructures that will provide customizable properties
to the component for specific engineering applications
Processing of Steels [6 lectures]: Melting and casting, Steel refining by ESR and VIM, and VAR, heat treatment of
steels, thermo-mechanical processing of steels, sheet metal forming and welding of steels
Physical  Metallurgy  of  Steels  [12  lectures]:  Effects  of  alloying  elements  on  Fe-C  phase  diagram,  structure  and
transformation kinetics of pearlite, interphase precipitation, divorced pearlite, Martensite-crystal structure,
transformation  kinetics,  morphology,  Bainite-Bainite  start  temperature,  upper  and  lower  bainite,  bainitic
microstructure, Widmanstattaen ferrite, acicular and equiaxed ferrite
Low  Carbon  Steels  [8  lectures]:  types  of  low  carbon  steels,  hot-rolled  ferrite-pearlite  steels,  processing  by  hot
rolling,  cold-rolling  and  annealing,  interstitial  free  steel,  HSLA  steel,  Dual-phase  (DP)  steel,  TRIP  steels,
Medium  and High Carbon  Steels  [8 lectures]: microalloyed steel-microstructure  and mechanical  properties,  rail
steels, patenting-pearlite formation in high strength steel wire, drawing of pearlitic high carbon steel wires,
hardening and tempering process, temper embrittlement, tool steels, applications
Stainless  Steels  [4  lectures]:  alloy  design  for  stainless steels,  austenitic,  ferritic  and  martensitic  stainless  steels,
precipitation hardened and duplex stainless steels, applications
Surface Hardened Steels [4 lectures]: carburizing, Nitriding, carbo-nitriding, induction hardening, flame hardening
1.  Krauss,G., (2005), Steels: Processing, Structure, and Performance, 2nd Edition, ASM International
1.  Bhadeshia,H.K.D.H, Honycombe,R.W.K, (2017), Steels: Microstructures and Properties, 4th Edition,
Degradation and Failure of Materials
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Elective (PE)
The instructor will explain
1.  About materials degradation due to different types of corrosion, their mechanisms and inhibition.
2.  Failures resulting due to corrosion and corrosion prevention
The students are expected to gain:
1.  Basic understanding on the possibility, outcome and rate of corrosion.
2.  Knowledge on selection of corrosion resistant materials even before designing
Introduction  [4  lectures]:  Definitions,  Different  forms  of  Environmental  degradation,  Cost  of  Corrosion,
Electrochemical Nature, Aims
Thermodynamics of Corrosion [10 lectures]: Process at Interface, Free Energy and Electrochemical Potential, EMF
Series, Nernst Relationship, Important Reactions, Cell Potential, Reference Electrodes, Pourbaix diagram and its
important in metal corrosion, Calculation of Pourbaix diagram for Al, Cu, Ni and Fe.
Kinetics  of  Corrosion  [10  lectures]:  Current  Density  and  Corrosion  Rate,  Corrosion  Rate  Expressions,  Exchange
Current Density, Polarization, Activation, Concentration and Resistance polarization, Mixed potential theory.
Types of Corrosion and Failures [8 lectures]: Major forms of corrosion and failures originating due to corrosion,
Hydrogen embrittlement, Corrosion fatigue
Corrosion testing and protection [6 lectures]: Corrosion experiments - Potentiodynamic test - Galvanostatic test -
Linear  Polarization-Immersion  test  -  Salt  fog  test.  Electrochemical  ways:  Sacrificial  anode,  Impressed  current
cathodic protection, Anodic protection, Environmental control over corrosion - Coating – Inhibitor.
Oxidation  of  Metals  and  Alloys  [4  lectures]:  Pilling  Bedworth  Ratio  -  Thermodynamics  of  oxidation:  Ellingham
diagram, of oxidation - Effect of doping on the oxidation behaviour.
1.  Fontana M. G. (1987) Corrosion Engineering, 3rd Edition, McGraw Hill Book Company
1.  Zaki A. (2006) Principles of Corrosion Engineering and Corrosion Control, Elsevier Science & Technology
Online Course Material
1.  Mondal K., Corrosion - Part I and II, NPTEL Course Material, Metallurgy & Material Science, Indian
Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113104082/,
Program Elective (PE)
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
The main objective of this course is
1.  To introduce structure and processing of composites
2.  To and uses of composites
The students are expected to
1.  Classification and application of different composite materials and their processing techniques
2.  Acquire understanding about the structure property relationship of different types of composites
Introduction and Classification of Composites [6 lectures]: Composites, matrix: metal matrix composites, polymer
matrix composites, ceramic matrix composites, fiber reinforcements: fiber types, particulate reinforcements,
Design and Manufacturing of Composites [14 lectures]: Selection of matrix and reinforcement- Reinforcement with
Aligned Continuous Fibers and Discontinuous fibers, wettability and role of interface; Manufacturing- Hand
and  Prepeg  layup,  Bag  molding,  Autoclave  Processing,  Compression  Molding,  Resin  Transfer  Molding,
Pultrusion;  Metal-Matrix  Composites-  Solid  state  and  Liquid  State  processing;  Ceramic-Matrix  Composites-
Solid state, sol-gel, co-precipitation and hydrothermal techniques
Tailoring  Composite  Materials  [6  lectures]:    by  component  selection,  by  interface  modification,  surface
modification, microstructure control
Basic Mechanics of Composites [8 lectures]: Fiber-Matrix interface- theories of adhesion, glass fiber-polyester resin
interface, measurement of bond strength, Elastic properties-unidirectional lamiae, elastic properties of short
fiber  composite materials,    strength  of  a  unidirectional  laminae,  fiber  pull  out,  longitudinal  and  transverse
tensile and compressive strength, in-plane shear strength
Properties  and  Applications  of  Composites  [8  lectures]:  Monotonic  properties,  fatigue  and  creep  properties  of
composites, Applications of Composites- Materials for Lightweight Structures, Materials for civil infrastructure,
Materials for Aerospace components- propeller blades, turbine blades, space applications
1.  Clyne, T. W. and Hull, D., (2019) An Introduction to Composite Materials, 3rd edition, Cambridge University
2.  Balasubramanian, M., (2013), Composite Materials and Processing, 1st Edition, CRC Press
1.  Matthews F. L. and Rawlings R. D. (1999) Composite Materials, 1st edition, Woodhead Publishing.
Online Course Material
1.  Prof.  Nachiketa  Tewari,  Introduction  To  Composites,  Aerospace  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of
Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112/104/112104229/
Polymeric Materials and Processing
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.   Provide background on basics of processing, structure and properties of polymers of engineering applications
The students are expected to gain:
1.   Basic understanding of structure-property relationship in polymers
2.   Knowledge about synthesis, and processing of polymers for engineering applications
Structure of Polymers [14 lectures]: Basics definitions, molar mass averages, Tacticity and isomerism, Amorphous
and  semi-crystalline  polymers,  free  volume  theory,  crystal  structure  and  its  determination,  degree  of
crystallinity, melting and crystallization, defects in crystalline polymers, polymer blends, block-copolymers,
elastomers (Offered by Chemical Engineering)
Synthesis  and  Processing  of  Polymers  [14  lectures]:  Polymerization  conditions  and  polymer  reactions;  Melt
Processing,  Extrusion,  Injection  Molding,  Thermosets  and  Thermoforming;  Plastics  Technology:  Molding,
Extrusion,  multipolymer  systems  and  composites,  additives  and  compounding;  Elastomer  Technology:
vulcanization, elastomer compounding (Offered by MT)
Polymer Rheology and Mechanical Behavior [4 lectures]: Viscous flow, Storage and Loss modulus, visco-elasticity -
creep, stress relaxation, kinetic theory of rubber elasticity (Offered by MT)
Characterization of Polymers [10 lectures]: Measurement of molecular weight and size: end group analysis, thermal
analysis, colligative property measurement, dynamic light scattering, gel permeation chromatography, X-ray
scattering, Spectroscopic methods (Offered by MT)
1.  Young R.J. and Lovell P.A. (2011) Introduction to Polymers, 3rd Edition, CRC Press
1.  Chanda M. (2006) Introduction to Polymer Science & Chemistry, CRC Press
2.  Baird,D.G, Collias,D.I., (2014), Polymer Processing, Wiley
Online Course Material
1.  Adhikari  B,  Science  &  Technology  of  Polymers,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Metallurgy  &
Material Science, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113105028/
Ceramics and Glass
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Elective (PE)
The main objective of this course is to
Impart and introduce the basic concepts and uses of ceramics and glass.
Upon successful completion of the course the student
1.  Would have the knowledge of basic science and technology involved in ceramic materials and glass.
2.  Be cognizant of various processing techniques involved in the creation of products.
Ceramic  Compounds  &  Materials  [8  lectures]:  Chemistry  of  ceramics,  crystal  structure  and  bonding  in  ceramic
materials,  defect  chemistry  in  ceramics,  Polymorphism,  Ceramic  raw  materials  (Clay,  Silicate,  Zirconia),
Mechanical and Thermal properties of ceramics
Sintering and Microstructure of Ceramics [6 lectures]: Thermodynamics and kinetics, Mass Transport, Solid phase
sintering, Liquid phase sintering, Sintering additives, Pressure sintering
Ceramic  Processing  [8  lectures]:  Ceramic  Powder  Characterization,  Rheological  behaviour  of  slurries,  Particle
packing, Forming Processes: Dry pressing, Semi dry pressing, Plastic forming method: extrusion and injection
molding, Sol-gel processing, Casting methods: slip casting, tape casting, Drying and Firing process
Non-oxide Ceramics [2 lectures]:  Silicon nitride, Aluminum nitride, Silicon carbide, Boron carbide
Industrial Applications of Ceramics [9 lectures]: Refractories, Abrasives, Whitewares, Cement, Ceramic Coatings,
Nuclear Ceramics, Bio Ceramics
Glass [9 lectures]: Structure of glass, Thermodynamics and Kinetics of Glass, Physics of glass, Thermal & Mechanical
properties, Coloring, Glass production, Glass-Ceramics
1.  Chemical Analysis of Raw materials
2.  Characterization of Ceramic powder: Tap density, Particle Size Analysis
3.  Thermal analysis of ceramic powders using DTA / TGA / DTGA
4.  Ceramic powder preparation:
5.  Measurement of Green Strength and Green Density of Ceramics
6.  Sintering of Ceramics: Measurement of sintering density, microstructure and phase analysis
7.  Casting and Forming Lab
8.  Preparation of Soda-Lime-Silica glass with different colouring oxides, e.g. CoO, FeO etc.
9.  Preparation of Boro-silicate glass with alkali & alkaline earth oxides.
1. Kingery,W.D., Bowen, H.K., and Uhlmann, D.R., Introduction to Ceramics, John Wiley & Sons
2. Barsoum,M.W., Fundamentals of Ceramics, CRC Press
3. Shelby,J.E., (2005) Introduction to Glass Science and TechnologyThe Royal Society of Chemistry
1. Reed,J.S., Introduction to the principles of ceramic processing
4. Tooley,F.V., Hand Book of Glass Manufacture – Vol. I & II, Ogden Publishing Co., NY
Online Course Material
1. Juejun Hu, Amorphous Materials, DMSE MIT, MIT OCW, https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-science-and-
Casting and Solidification
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  Impart fundamental understanding of various casting processes and the theory of solidification
2.  Discuss design methodology and process parameters involve in obtaining defect free casting.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand of solidification of metals and alloys and correlating with various casting processes
Conventional and Special Casting Techniques [14 Lecture]:  Casting Terminology, Types of pattern and allowances,
Applications  and  Challenges;  Expendable  and  Permanent  Mould  Casting  Processes.  Special  casting  techniques:
investment casting, rheocasting and thixocasting, squeeze casting, high and low pressure die casting, continuous
Solidification  of  metals  and  alloys  [14  Lecture]:  Heat  flow,  plain  front  solidification,  cellular  solidification,
constitutional undercooling, formation of dendrites, eutectic solidification, monotectic solidification.
Gating design and casting defects [14 Lecture]: Fluid flow, gating and riser design, Adams’ and Caine’s riser design,
fluidity. Casting defects: classification, remedial measures, quality assessment.
Flemings,M.C., Solidification Processing (1974), Mcgraw-Hill Book Company
Campbell,J.,  (2015),  Complete  casting  Handbook:  Metal  Casting  Processes,  Metallurgy,  Techniques  and  Design,
1.  Heine R. W, Loper C. R., and Rosenthal P. C., (2008), Principles of Metal Casting, Tata McGraw Hill
2.  Davies, G. J., (1973) Solidification and Casting, Wiley,
3.  Stefanescu, D. M., Science and Engineering of Casting Solidification, (2015), 3rd edition, Springer
Online Course Materials
1.  Karunakar, D.B., Metal Casting, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/ 112107083/
Metallurgy of Joining
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech. (MT) Program
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.   introduce the basics of materials joining techniques and the associated metallurgy of welds
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the importance of the materials joining in structural applications.
2.  Study the fundamentals of welding microstructures and properties
Materials Joining basics [6 lectures]: Materials joining basics, type of joints, Types of welding techniques, heat input
and joining efficiency, importance of welding in structural applications
Fusion welding [8 lectures]: Important welding techniques such as submerged arc welding, flux core arc welding,
tungsten inert gas welding, Metal inert gas welding, plasma arc welding, electron beam welding, laser beam
Solid state welding [8 lectures]: Important welding techniques like Diffusion bonding, friction welding, friction stir
welding, adhesive joining, ultrasonic welding, forge welding
Metallurgy of fusion welding [8 lectures]: Fusion zone, partially melted zone, heat affected zone, residual stresses
in welding, epitaxial growth during welding, heat transfer in welding
Metallurgy  of  solid  state  welding  [6  lectures]:  materials  plasticization,  bonding  interfaces,  effect  of  processing
parameters, heat input in welding
Case Studies [6 lectures]: fusion welding of Al alloys, Friction stir welding of Mg alloys, Laser beam welding of Al alloys
1.  Kou S., (2003), Welding Metallurgy, 2rd Edition, Jhon Willey and Sons, New Jersey, United States
2.  Lippold J.C., (2015) Welding Metallurgy and Weldability, Jhon Willey and Sons, New Jersey, United States
1. Reeser M.A., (2017), Welding complete: Techniques, project plans and instructions, cool springs press, MA
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Program Elective (PE)
Through this course the instructor
1.  Will provide an insight of development of battery materials
The students are expected to gain knowledge on:
1.  Cycling behaviour of the batteries.
2.  Development of different types of batteries demanding on application, Merits and demerits of each
3.  Materials developed so far and future goals to be achieved.
Introduction  to  Electrochemistry  [8  lectures]:  Chemical  and  Electrochemical  Reactions,  Components  of
electrochemical cells, Operation of a Cell, Self-Discharge, Theoretical Cell Voltage, Capacity, and Energy, Specific
Energy  and  Energy  Density,  Thermodynamic  Background,  Variation  of  the  Voltage  with  Discharging  and
Recharging, Cycling Behaviour.
Battery Characteristics, Performance, Design, Selection & Standardization [2 lectures]: General Characteristics and
Factors Affecting Battery Performance, Battery Design and Construction, Selection and Application of Batteries,
History and evolution of Batteries [6 lectures]: Primary Batteries, voltaic pile, Daniell cell, Zinc-Carbon Batteries,
Alkaline-Manganese  Dioxide  Batteries,  Secondary  Batteries,  Lead-Acid  Batteries,  Nickel-Iron  Batteries,  Nickel-
Cadmium Batteries, Nickel-Zinc Batteries, Nickel-Hydrogen Batteries, Nickel-Metal Hydride Batteries, Lithium-Ion
Development of Negative Electrodes [8 lectures]: The lead electrode, Aluminium and Magnesium electrode, Zinc
and Cadmium Electrode in Aqueous Systems, Metal Hydride Electrodes, Negative Electrodes in Lithium Cells
Development of Positive Electrodes [8 lectures]: Manganese Dioxide/ The “Nickel” Electrode / Lead oxide electrode/
Oxygen electrode Electrodes in Aqueous Systems.
Development of Electrolytes [10 lectures]: Liquid Electrolytes, General Considerations Regarding the Stability of
Electrolytes Vs. Alkali Metals, Elevated Temperature Electrolytes for Alkali Metals, Electrolyte Stability Windows
and Their Extension, Composite Structures That Combine Stability Regimes, Solid Electrolytes.
1.  Huggins R. A. (2009) Advanced Batteries: Materials Science Aspects, 1st Edition, Springer
2.  Linden D. and Reddy T. B. (2002) Handbook of Batteries, 3rd Edition, The McGraw-Hill Companies
Online Course Material
Prof. Bazant M., MITopencourseware: Electrochemical Energy Systems, MIT Course Number 10.626 / 10.426,
3-D Printing: Material Processing and Properties
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B.Tech. Materials Engineering
The Instructor will introduce:
1.   Importance of 3-D printing of materials for various range of applications
2.   Process control and product quality evaluation through application of basics
The students are expected to gain:
1.   Insight of the evolutionary technology for rapid and cost effective growth of products
2.   Aptitude to translate the knowledge into novel components with industrialization competitiveness
Introduction [5 lectures]: 3-D printing small but multipurpose product inspiration, Science fiction to innovation,
Multidisciplinary terminology, Current system configurations, Construction, Classification
Hardware – software – material Interdependence [5 lectures]: Essence of hardware, software and materials, Impact
on systems engineering in various industries, Processing philosophy
Raw Materials [4 lectures]: Forms and sources of raw materials, Processing methods and characteristic properties,
Material specifications based industries and processing technology e.g. aerospace, medicine
3-D Printing Processes [2 lectures]: Process flow and basics of stages involved, Process control, Upgrading options,
3-D product design, evaluation, justification and integration (DEJI) model
Additive  Manufacturing  of  Metallic  Systems  [5  lectures]:  Light  metals  and  alloys,  Superalloys,  Intermetallic
compounds, Shape memory alloys, porous metals, Rare earth permanent magnets
Thermo-mechanical Effects [2 lectures]: Phase transformation, Microstructure evolution, Variation in properties,
Thermo-mechanical modeling of microstructure evolution and mechanical properties
3-D Printing of Polymers and  Hydrogels [5 lectures]: Natural polymers, Synthetic polymers, Design considerations
and guidelines, Mechanics modeling, AM of tooling for mass production processes, 3-D bioprinting hardware,
Reactive inkjet printing of nylon materials, Stimuli responsive hydrogels, Biopolymer hydrogel biolinks
3-D  Printing  of  Ceramics  and  composites  [5  lectures]:  Processing  technology  and  options,  Laminated  object
manufacturing,  Laser  Engineered  net  shaping,  Bio-active  ceramics  and  bio-active  glasses,    Engineering
ceramics,  Green-tape-based  AM,  Complex  ceramic  architecture,  Metal  matrix  composites,  Ceramic  matrix
composites, Polymer matrix composites and their variants, Nano-composites
Special  Purpose  3-D  Printing  [5  lectures]:  Functionally  grades materials,  Bio-medical applications,  Biomematic
design model, Frugal design sustainability,  Smart material- DNA origami, 4-D printing, Reconstructive surgery,
Patient specific 3-D printing,  Hydrogen storage material, Printed and hybrid electronics enabled by digital AM
technologies, Reverse Engineering
Post-processing and Inspection techniques [2 lectures]:  Post processing problems and requirements, Rectification
Student Presentation & Discussion [2 lectures]: Concept for developing prototype object, Methodology, Examining
novelty and market acceptability, Translation to business idea
1. Gibson, I., et al (Eds.) (2015), Additive Manufacturing Technology: 3D printing, Rapid Prototyping, and Direct
Digital Manufacturing, 2nd Ed., Springer
2.    Maniruzzaman,  M..  (Ed.),  (2019),  3D  and  4D  Printing  in  Bio-medical  Applications:  Process-Engineering  and
Additive Manufacturing, Wiley- VCH Verlag GmbH & Co.
1.  Declan, M.D.. (2019), Polymer Based Additive Manufacturing- Biomedical Applications, Springer Nature.
2.  Gu, D., (2015), Laser Additive Manufacture of High-Performance Materials,  Springer Verlag
Online Course Material
1.    Ramkumar,  J.,  2018,  NOC:  Rapid  Manufacturing,  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering;  IIT  Kanpur,
Lithium ion batteries
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
The theoretical and practical limits of battery technology can be a barrier to meeting some performance
requirements.  Through  this  course  the  instructor  will  provide  a  thorough  insight  of  development  of
battery materials with future goals to be achieved.
The students are expected to gain knowledge on:
1.   Cycling behaviour of the batteries.
2.   Development of different types of batteries demanding on application, Merits and demerits of each
3.  Materials developed so far and future goals to be achieved.
Introduction:  [4  lectures]  Components  of  Li  ion  electrochemical  cells,  Operation  of  a  Li  ion  Cell,
Reconstitution and Insertion Reactions, Theoretical Cell Voltage, Capacity, and Energy, Cycling Behaviour,
Experimental Methods to Evaluate the Critical Properties of Electrodes and Electrolytes, Use of DC and AC
Methods to Determine the Electronic and Ionic Components of the Conductivity in Solid Electrolytes and
Mixed Conductors, Influence of Impedances to the Transport of Ionic and Atomic Species within the Cell,
Self-Discharge, Joule Heating to Due to Self-Discharge in Electrochemical Cells.
Negative Electrodes in Lithium ion Cells: [8 lectures] Elemental Lithium Electrodes, drawbacks, Lithium–
Carbon  Alloys,  Metallic  Lithium  Alloys,  Mixed-Conductor  Matrix  Electrodes,  Convertible  Reactant
Electrodes,  Electrochemical  Behaviour,  structural  reversibility,  Amorphization,  Decrepitation,
Modification of the Micro and Nanostructure of the Electrode, Electrodes for aqueous systems.
Positive Electrodes in Lithium ion Cells: [8 lectures] Insertion Reaction, Reconstitution Reaction,
Electrodes, Materials with Layered Structures, Materials with the Spinel Structure, Materials with the
Olivine  Structure,  Liquid  Positive  Electrode  Reactants:  The  Li/SO2  System,  The  Li/SOCl2  System,
Electrodes for aqueous systems, Hybrid Ion Cells, The Oxygen Evolution Problem.
Electrolytes in Lithium ion Cells: [8 lectures] Lithium-Conducting Inorganic Molten Salts,
Lower  Temperature  Alkali  Halide  Molten  Salts,  Ambient  Temperature  Organic  Solvent  Liquid
Electrolytes/Ionic  liquids,  Interaction  of  Organic  Solvent  Electrolytes  with  Graphite,  Electrolyte
Additives,  Solid  Electrolytes,  Lithium  Ion  Conductors:  Perovskite  and  Garnet  Structure,  Relation
Between the Potential and the Oxygen Pressure in Lithium Systems, Electrolyte Stability Windows and
Their Extension, Two Solid Electrolytes in Series, Implications for the Safety of Lithium Cells.
1.  Introduction to LIBs, different parts of LIB, different size and shapes, applications
2.  Synthesis of graphite and metal-alloys based negative electrodes for LIB
3.  Synthesis of oxide, phosphate and silicate based positive electrodes for LIB
4.  Fabrication of lithium half cells and full cells
5.  Cycle behaviour, charge/discharge characteristics and performance analysis of LIB
6.  Voltammetry study and analysis of electrochemical behaviour through impedance spectroscopy
7.  Exploration of degradation mechanism of oxide and phosphate-based LIBs
8.  Aging and self-discharge characteristics of oxide and phosphate-based LIB
9.  Short-circuit and thermal runaway failure of oxide and phosphate-based LIB
10. Thermal imaging and calorific study of parasitic reactions
11. Battery management system, balancing and development of smart charger for LIBs
1.  Masaki  Yoshio  M.,  Brodd R.  J.  and  Kozawa  A.  (2010)  Lithium-Ion  Batteries: Science  and  Technologies,
2.  Toll M. (2017) DIY Lithium Batteries: How to Build Your Own Battery Packs, Toll Publishing
1.  Huggins R. A. (2009) Advanced Batteries: Materials Science Aspects, 1st Edition, Springer
2. Linden D. and Reddy T. B. (2002) Handbook of Batteries, 3rd Edition, The McGraw-Hill Companies
Online Course Material
1.  Dr. WALKER W. Q., Short course on lithium-ion batteries: fundamental concepts, heating mechanisms
and simulation techniques, Nasa Johnson space center, Structural engineering division, Thermal design
2.  Prof. Bazant M., MITopencourseware: Electrochemical Energy Systems, MIT Course Number 10.626 /
3.  Prof. Maiti H.S., Advanced ceramics for strategic applications, NPTEL, Metallurgy and Materials Science,
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B. Tech. (MT)
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1. Provide knowledge on the importance of surface engineering in materials protection and design
2. Introduce various advanced surface engineering techniques available in the industry
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the basics of various advanced surface engineering techniques
2.  Understand the limitations of standard materials and how they can be improved with surface engineering
3.  Identify the surface treatment best suited to a specific application
Fundamentals of surface engineering [10 Lectures]:  definition, scope, classification, and general principles, surface
dependent properties and failures, Surface and surface energy: Structure and types of interfaces. Protection from
wear  and  corrosion  by  surface  engineering.  Enhancing  the  performance  of  thermal  protection  systems,
biocompatibility, and other functional properties of materials by surface engineering.
Surface  engineering  Techniques  [24  Lectures]:  Surface  engineering  by  energy  beams:  Laser  assisted
microstructural  modification  –Laser  assisted  compositional  modification  –  surface  cladding.  Electron  beam
assisted  modification  and  joining.  Ion  beam  assisted  microstructure  and  compositional  modification.  Surface
engineering by spray techniques: Principle and scope of applications of Flame spraying, Plasma coating, HVOF,
cold spray. Characterization of surface microstructure and properties (name of the techniques and brief operating
principle). Evaporation - Thermal / Electron beam, Sputter deposition of thin films & coatings – DC & RF, Sputter
deposition of thin films & coatings –Chemical vapor deposition and PECVD, Plasma and ion beam assisted surface
modification, Surface modification by Ion implantation and Ion beam mixing.
Characterization  of  surfaces  [8  Lectures]:  Measurement  of  coatings  thickness,  porosity  &  adhesion  of  surface
coatings, Measurement of residual stress & stability, Surface microscopy, topography and Spectroscopic analysis
of modified surfaces.
1. Davis,J.R, (2001), Surface Engineering for Corrosion and Wear Resistance, ASM International,.
2. Budinski K., (1990), Surface Engineering for Wear Resistance, Prentice Hall.
1. Ernest, R., Friction and Wear of Materials, (1995), John Wiley and Sons, New York.
2. Surface Engineering, (2001) ASM Metals Handbook, Vol. 5, Ohio
1.  Kallol, M. and Sandeep. S., Heat Treatment and Surface Hardening – I NPTEL Course Material, Department of
2.  Kaushik  P.,  Surface  Engineering  of  Nanomaterials,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Mechanical  and
Industrial Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113107075/
Synthesis and Processing of Semiconductors and
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce different synthesis and fabrication techniques used for semiconductor device fabrication.
2. Introduce different synthesis techniques used for 2D materials
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0
Program Compulsory (PC)
After  completion  of  the  course  students  will  be  have  a  basic  understanding  of  different  semiconductor  device
fabrication techniques as well as gain knowledge how to synthesize various 2D materials
General Introduction (1 Lecture)
Semiconductor processing [17 Lectures]: Silicon Wafer Fabrication Physical vapour deposition methods: e-beam,
pulsed laser and ion beam evaporation, Glow, Discharge and Plasma, Sputtering–mechanisms and yield, DC and
RF sputtering, Chemical vapour deposition: Sol-gel, Spin Coating, Atomic Layer deposition, CVD, PECVD, MOCVD,
solution processing techniques, (printing, spin coating, chemical bath depositions, etc.). Semiconductor
Integration with Functional oxides and Challenges in fabrication
2D Materials Processing [Lectures 13]: Different types of 2D materials, Strategies and challenges of 2D materials
synthesis: micromechanical exfoliation, ultrasonic exfoliation, hydrothermal method, topochemical
transformation, chemical vapor deposition, Top Down vs Bottom up, Production of graphene and 2-d materials:
Comparison of production methods, Scotch-tape method (micromechanical cleavage), Chemical vapour
deposition, Solution-exfoliation 1 – graphene and other 2-d materials, Solution-exfoliation 2 – graphene oxide,
Decomposition of silicon carbide, Production of graphene nano-ribbons, Synthesis of hexagonal boron nitride,
and transition metal dichalcogenides, to new and emerging materials such as black phosphorus, silicene, and
Lithography and Etching [Lectures 6]: Pattern Formation, Optical Lithography, Resists, Wet Chemical Etching,
Reactive Ion Etching, Ion implantation doping
Metallization and Polishing [Lectures 2]
Cleanroom & Contamination [Lectures 3]: Cleanroom standards, Contamination and yield, Environment, safety
1. Ohring, M., (2002), The materials science of Thin films, 2nd Edition, Academic Press Ltd.
2. Chopra, K. L., (1969), Thin Film Phenomena, McGraw-Hill Book Company
1. Editor Gogotsi, Y., (2019), 2D Metal Carbides and Nitrides (MXenes): Structure, Properties and Applications,
2. Shinohara, H., Tiwari, A., (2015), Graphene: an introduction to the fundamentals and industrial applications.
John Wiley & Sons
Online Course Material
2.  Parasuraman  Swaminathan,  Electronic  materials,  devices  and  fabrication,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Bioscience and Bioengineering
B. Tech. (MT)
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an insight on the fundamental concepts of biomaterials engineering.
2. Give an overview of techniques for characterizations of different types of biomaterials for various applications.
Program Elective (PE)
The students will have the ability to:
1. Analyze the suitability of the material to be used as a biomaterial.
2. Compare the performance of different biomaterials.
2. Design a strategy for modification of biomaterials for a specific application.
Fundamental  of  Biomaterials  [14  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  biomaterials,  types  of  biomaterials,  processing  of
biomaterials,  surface  properties  and  surface  modification  of  biomaterials,  physicochemical  characterization  of
biomaterials. (by MM department)
Biological  Properties  of  Biomaterials  [14  Lectures]:  Concepts  of  biocompatibility,  immune-compatibility,
hemocompatibility  and  biodegradability,  Bioconjugations,  Biomineralization,  Biological  characterization  of
biomaterials (by BSBE)
Applications of Biomaterials [14 Lectures]: Biomimetic and stealth biomaterials, types and applications of implants,
biomaterials for drug delivery systems, biomaterials for tissue engineering, regulatory affairs (by BSBE)
1.  Basu,B., (2017), Biomaterials Science and Tissue Engineering, First edition, Cambridge University Press
1.  Shelly, E., Elbert, S, Zhang, G., (2020), Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials in Medicine, Edited
by William R Wagner,  Michael J. Yaszemski, 4th edition, Academic Press Inc.
Department  Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Prerequisite  Semiconductor Devices
The instructor will:
1. Provide in-depth knowledge into the electronic, magnetic, and optical properties of ceramic materials systems
and their properties
On successful completion of the course, the students would be:
a) Know the relationships between ceramic structure (electronic, microstructural, and defect structure) and the
wide variety of properties they display.
b) Learn how these variety of phenomena can be exploited in useful applications like sensors, and piezoelectric
c) Access Current day research topics on electronic magnetic and optical materials.
General Introduction [1 Lecture]
Crystallography and Bonding [6 Lectures]:  Structures, Bonding in Ceramics Structure formation rules in Oxides,
Important structures in Oxides.
Defects [5 Lecture hours]: Defects in ceramics and defect chemistry, Defects diffusion and equilibrium
Electrical conductivity [5 Lectures]: Conduction Mechanisms in Ceramics, Resistors, varistors and thermistors
Dielectrics,  ferro-  and  piezo-electrics  [16  Lectures]:    Capacitor  Materials,  Dielectric  Breakdown,  High  and  low
permittivity materials, Microwave and tunable dielectrics, Ferroelectric memories, Piezoelectric materials: PZT,
BaTiO3, Morphotropic Phase boundary, Electrostriction, Pyroelectric materials: Thermal Imaging, IR detection
Magnetic  Ceramics  [3  Lectures]:  General  Properties,  Magnetic  ferrites,  Magneto  crystalline  anisotropy,
Electro-optical Properties [3 Lectures]: Electro-optic effect, Non-Linear optics, Birefringence, PLZT material and
Material processing [3 Lectures]: Thin film and Bulk processing
1. Electroceramics: Materials, Properties and Applications by A. J. Moulson and  J. M. Herbert, Chapman and Hall,
2nd Edition, 1990.
2. Kofstad, Per. "Nonstoichiometry, diffusion, and electrical conductivity in binary metal oxides." (1972).
1.  Introduction to solid State Physics by Charles Kittel, Wiley Eastern, 5th Edition, 1983
2. Newnham, R. E. (2012). Structure-property relations (Vol. 2). Springer Science & Business Media
Online Course Material
1.  Ashish Garg, Electroceramics, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Material Science & Engineering, Indian
Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113/104/113104005/
2.  Ashish Garg, Fundamentals and Applications of Dielectric Ceramics, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Magnetism and Magnetic Materials
Basic knowledge on Quantum Mechanics
The course will provide knowledge of underlying phenomena of magnetism. Emphasis will be on the
preparation process & characterisation methods of magnetic materials used for Engineering applications
The students are expected to have the ability of understanding magnetic phenomena, and metallurgical aspect of
developing magnetic materials. They will also get an exposure of engineering application of magnetic methods
and magnetic materials.
o  Origin of magnetism, Bohr Magnetron, Classification of magnetic materials, Weiss molecular field (4L)
o  Magnetism in Metals and Insulators, Exchange Interaction, Magnetic Anisotropy and Magnetostriction,
o  Domain and Domain Walls, Magnetic Hysteresis and Barkhausen Emissions, Techniques for
Characterisation of Magnetic Materials, Superconductor and Superconducting Magnets, Structure
Property Relations (8L),
o  Soft Magnetic Materials: Nickel Iron Alloys, Cobalt-Iron alloys, Electrical steel (CRNO, CRGO and
amorphous), Amorphous & Nanostructured magnetic alloys. (6L)
o  Hard Magnetic Materials: Alnico, NdFeB, SmCo (6L)
o  Soft & Hard Ferrites, Magnetic Shape Memory and Magnetocaloric Materials (6L),
o  Application of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials (2L)
(i) Chih-Wen Chen, Magnetism and Metallurgy of Soft magnetic Materials, Dover Publications, INC. New York,
(ii) B.D. Cullity, Introduction to Magnetic Materials, Addison-Wesley publishing company, California, London,
(iii) D. C. Jiles, Introduction to Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, Chapman & Hill, London, 1991.
(iv) S. Chikazumi, Physics of Ferromagnetism, Oxford University Press 1997, Reprinted in 2002, ISBN: 0-19-
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Elective (PE)
1.  Understanding the correlation between the phase diagram and chemical thermodynamics for alloy
1.  Ability to construct multicomponent phase diagrams using computational thermodynamic approach.
1.  Thermodynamics  of  Solution  [7  Lectures]: Thermochemistry  of solutions.  Evolution  of  phase diagrams  -
quasichemical theory, Sub regular solution model.
2.  Calculation  of  thermodynamic  parameters  [7  Lectures]:  First  principle  calculation,  Semi-empirical-
Miedema approach. Calorimetric measurement, electrochemical measurement,
3.  Calculation  of  multicomponent  phase  diagram  [14  Lectures]:  Redlitch-kister  polynomial,  Muggianu  and
kohler extrapolation. Crystallography in thermodynamics, Order and disorder structure, antisite defect
and  vacancies.  Compound  energy  formalism.  Modeling  of  Interstitial  and  substitutional  phases,
stoichiometric and non-stoichiometric compounds.
1.  Construction of equilibrium and non-equilibrium phase diagram,
2.  Vertical section phase diagram and Property diagram for multi-component alloys,
3.  Scheil and equilibrium solidification simulation,
4.  Liquidus projections and monovariant reactions in ternary phase equilibria,
5.  Creation of user defined thermodynamic database.
1.  Saunders   and   Miodownik, (1998), CALPHAD (Calculation of Phase Diagrams): A Comprehensive Guide, 1st
Edition, Pergamman Press,
2.  Lukas,H., Suzana,G., Fries, B.S., (2007), Computational Thermodynamics: The Calphad Method, Cambridge
1.  Porter,  D.A.,  Easterling,  K.  E.,  and  Sherif,  M.Y.,  (2009),  Phase  Transformation  in  Metals  and  Alloys,  3rd
Edition, CRC Press
Online Course Materials
1.  Murty,  B.S.,  Advanced  Metallurgical  Thermodynamics,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
Introduce the principles of physical separation methods, simulation, and instrumentation related
to mineral processing
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Ability to engineer selective mineral processing based on material and environment conditions
Introduction to Mineral Geology [2 lectures]: Geological formation of minerals. Classification and identification of
Introduction to Mineral Beneficiation [4 lectures]: Mineral Beneficiation Plant, Materials handling, Sampling, Sizing
of ore particles- sieve analysis and testing, particle size distribution
Comminution  and  Screening  [10  lectures]:  Liberalization  of  dissimilar  minerals,  Degree  of  liberalization,
comminution-  fracture,  laws  of  comminution,  crushing  –  Primary  and  secondary  crusher,  crushing  operation,
Ginding-  Ball  milling,  Wet  and  Dry  Grinding,  Chemical  Comminution-leaching,  dissolution,    Screening-  types,
factors affecting rate of screening, screening efficiency
Separation  and  Concentration  of  ores  [14  lectures]:  Classification  mechanical  sorting,  Gravity  separation  or
concentration- Float and sink, heavy medium separation, Jigging, Flowing film concentration, Froth Floatation-
floating reagents, types of floatation, Surface properties and selective flotation of ores, floatation for Sulphide ores,
flocculation, Magnetic and Electrical Separation
Solid-Liquid  Separation  [4  lectures]:  Settling  of solids  in fluids,  Solid-Liquid separation-Dewatering, Mechanical
Dewatering of Slurries and Liquid-Liquid processing methods, Filtering
Applications and Examples [8 lectures]: Mineral beneficiation of Zn, Cu, Fe, Pb ores, Heap leaching of Au, Mineral
Processing of special materials (from brine and mineral resources), rare earths, vanadium, etc.
1.  Wills,B.A. and Napier-Munn,T.J., (2006), Mineral Processing Technology, Elsevier Science & Technology
Books, 7th Edition
2.  Subbarao,D.V., (2011), Mineral Beneficiation: A Concise Basic Course, CRC Press
1.  Drzymala, J., (2007), Mineral Processing: foundations of theory and practice of minerallurgy, Wroclaw
University of Technology
2.  German,R.M., (2005), Powder Metallurgy & Particulate Materials Processing, Metal Powder Industry
Online Course Materials
1.  Majmuder, A., Introduction to Mineral Processing, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Mining
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/105105171/
Kinetics of Metallurgical Processes
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
This course aims to cover:
1.  Various kinetic aspects of metallurgical processes encountered in during metal extraction
The students will be able to:
1.  Identify the rate controlling mechanism for a metallurgical process
Introduction and Kinetics of Homogeneous Reaction [6 lectures]: Scope of metallurgical kinetics, rate processes,
rate of reaction, Rate equation, molecularity and order of reactions; reaction mechanism, temperature
dependence of reaction rate-Arrhenius equation and activation energy
Interpretation of Batch Reaction Data [8 lectures]: Irreversible first order, second order, and third order reaction,
zero-order reaction, overall order of reaction from half-life, homogeneous catalyzed reactions, irreversible
reactions in series, General and first order reversible reactions
Chemically Controlled Reactions [8 lectures]: Reaction steps and rate controlling step, reaction between a solid
and a fluid, interfacial reaction control-kinetic law, reduction of Hematite by CO or H2, Examples of leaching
reaction- Ammonia leaching and acid leaching of Chalcopyrite, Chemisorption, Total internal reaction
Diffusion through product layer [8 lectures]: Reaction of a flat plate and of a spherical solid, Diffusion through
porous solid, Example: packed bed, leaching of Sulphide minerals
Fluid Phase mass transfer [12 lectures]: Mass Transfer Across a Boundary Layer, Mass Transfer at Solid–Fluid
Interface, Dissolution of a Solid in a Liquid, Electrochemical Mechanism in Leaching, Smelting reduction process-
reduction of FeO in slag, reaction between two fluids-mass transfer across two fluid interface, slag-metal
reaction, mass-transfer as a rate controlling step
1.  Ray, H.S., Ray, S.K., (2018), Kinetics of Metallurgical Processes, 1st Edition, Springer
2.  Ghosh, A., Ghosh, S., (2014), Textbook of Metallurgical Kinetics, PHI Learning Private Limited
1.  Levenspiel, O., (2006), Chemical Reaction Engineering, 3rd Edition, John Wiley and Sons.
2.  Wilkinson, D.S., (2000), Mass Transport in Solids and Fluids, Cambridge Univeristy Press
Online Course Material
1.  Prof. B. Mandal, Chemical Reaction Engineering-I, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/103/103/103103153/
Principles of Process Metallurgy
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce methods for the calculation of mass and energy balance for various metal extraction processes
2.  Expose  the  students  to  various  process  control  and  transport  phenomena  for  various  metal  extraction
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the principles of thermodynamics and transport phenomena to understand and control metallurgical
2.  Relate the basic phenomena and process output through mass and energy calculations
Metal-slag  interactions  [6  Lectures]:  Thermo-physical  properties  of  metals  and  slags,  slag-metal  equilibrium
calculations, application of slag capacity during metal refining
Process phenomena [6 Lectures]:  bubble formation, foaming, gas-liquid reactions, reactions between liquid phases
Process control in metallurgical processes [6 Lectures]: Iron making, converter steel making, electric arc furnace,
secondary steel making
Mass and Energy balance in Iron and Steel Making [8 Lectures]: Materials Balance in Iron making, Blast furnace
stoichiometry, Enthalpy balance in blast furnace. Material and heat balance in converting. Material and heat
balance in steel making by L.D converters and open-hearth furnace.
Mass and energy balance in calcination and roasting [8 Lectures]: Calcination - Principles of calcination, Materials
and heat balance in calcinations. Roasting - Introduction, Sources of energy, Determination of calorific value of
gaseous  fuel,  Amount  of  air,  Materials  balance  calculation  in  roasting.  Basics  of  heat  balance  in  roasting.
Calculation Procedure for Roasting Temperature.
Mass and energy balance in non-ferrous smelting [8 Lectures] Matte smelting, Industrial copper smelting. Material
balance and heat balance problems in matte smelting. Reduction smelting, Material balance in zinc and lead
smelting, Material and heat balance in Imperial Smelting Process.
1.  Sano N., Lu W., Riboud P., (1997), Advanced Physical Chemistry for Process Metallurgy, Academic Press,
2.  Shamsuddin M., (2016), Physical Chemistry of Metallurgical Processes, John Wiley & Sons.
3.  Alan Fine H, Gordon H. Geiger, (1998),  Handbook on Material and Energy Balance Calculations in Metallurgical
Processes, 2nd Revised Edition, Wiley.
1.  Ray, H.S., and Ghosh, A., (1991), Principles of extractive metallurgy, Wiley Eastern Ltd., New Delhi
Online Course Materials
1.  Muzumdar,  D.,  and  Koria,  S.C.,  Steel  Making,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Material  Science  and
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/113104013/
2.  Ray,  H.S.,  Non-ferrous  Extractive  Metallurgy,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Materials  and
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Program Elective (PE)
This course aims to cover:
1.  Thermodynamic and kinetic aspects of leaching as a hydrometallurgical technique of metal extraction
2. Purification of leach liquors by ion exchange, solvent extraction, adsorption using active carbon, selective
precipitation operations, and solid-liquid separation techniques.
3.  Several practical leaching processes for nonferrous metal extraction and processing.
Understand the thermodynamics and kinetics of leaching and how it impacts the design of a
The students will be able to:
extraction; ion exchange; precipitation; crystallisation; and membrane treatment.
3. Explain the concepts and design of metal recovery processes
Discuss the concepts and design of separation and purification of leach liquors including solvent
Introduction and Chemical fundamentals of hydrometallurgy [8 lectures]: Mineral Deposition, lean ore, Aqueous
Processing and Utilization of Metals, Chemical Potential, Equilibrium, Solubility Product, Relationships Amongst
K, pK, pKa, and pH
Speciation and phase diagram [8 lectures]: Speciation (Ion Distribution) Diagrams, Metal-Ligand Speciation
Diagrams, Phase Stability Diagrams
Rate processes [14 lectures]: Chemical/Electrochemical/Biochemical Reaction Kinetics, Reaction Kinetics, Mass
Transport, Combined Mass Transport and Reaction Kinetics, Models for Reactions Involving Particles,
Metal extraction: [12 lectures]: Separation of dissolved metals, metal recovery processes, metal utilization
1.  Free,M.L., (2013) Hydrometallurgy: Fundamentals and Applications, 1st Edition, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
Hoboken, New Jersey
1.  Havlik, T., (2008) Hydrometallurgy: Principles and Applications, CRC Press Woodhead  Publishing
Online Course Material
1.  Prof. H.S. Ray, Non-ferrous Extractive Metallurgy, NPTEL Course Material, Metallurgy & Material
Science, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113105021/
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Program Elective (PE)
The aims to cover
1.  The principles and applications of aqueous electrochemistry in extractive metallurgy.
2.  Analysis  of  the  thermodynamic  and  electro-chemical  kinetic  phenomena  in  aqueous  and  non-aqueous
electrowinning and electrorefining of metals.
The student should be able to:
1.  Have knowledge and understanding of the existing electrometallurgical processes,
2.  Analyze, conceive and conceptually design novel electrometallurgical processes
Introduction, Definitions, Principles and Concepts [8 lectures]: Electrodes and electrochemical reactions, cell and
circuit, The Nernst equation and energy producing cells, Electrolysis, Faraday’s law, Electro-crystallization.
Surface Morphology of Metal Electrodeposits [10 lectures]: Thin Compact Surface Metal Films, Thick Compact Metal
Electrodeposits, Nucleation  rate  and  deposition  overpotential,  Deposition  from simple/  complex  salt  solutions
with/without  the  presence  of  adsorbed  additives,  Disperse  (Spongy,  Dendritic,  Powdered,  Granular,  Whisker)
The Current Distribution in Electrochemical Cells [10 lectures]: Two equal plane parallel electrodes arrangement,
Ohmic  resistance  of  the  cell,  The  edge  effect,  Cell  voltage-current  density  dependencies,  Determination  of  the
current density distribution, Cells with Low Anode Polarisation, Corner Weakness Phenomena in Electroforming,
Electrodeposition at a periodically changing rate.
Applications [14 lectures]: Electrowinning (zinc and aluminium), Electrorefining (copper), Optimum conditions for
electroplating  (metals/alloys/composites)  from  aqueous/non-aqueous/molten  salt  solutions,  Electropolishing,
Electro-machining, Electrochemical Oxidation of Metals.
1.  Popov K. I., Djokic S. S. and Grgur B. N. (2002) Fundamental aspects of electrometallurgy, Kluwer academic
publishers, New York.
1.  Free M., Moats M., Houlachi G., Asselin E., Allanore A., Yurko J., Wang S (2012)  Electrometallurgy 2012,
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Online Course Material
1.  Prof. H.S. Ray, Non-ferrous Extractive Metallurgy, NPTEL Course Material, Metallurgy & Material
Science, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113105021/
Secondary and Special Steel Making
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
B. Tech. (MT)
Program Elective (PE)
The Instructor will:
1. Provide knowledge on various secondary steel making process
1. Expose students to advanced methods of making super clean steel
Melt cleanliness and Degassing [14 Lectures]: The concept of cleanliness of steels, non-metallic inclusions, dissolved
gases.  Tramp  &  residual  elements  in  steels  and  their  effect  on  steel  properties.  Transport  Phenomena  during
taping  of  Liquid  Steel-  Estimation  of  Gas  absorption  during  tapping.  Importance  of  Slag  free  tapping.
Thermodynamic  and  kinetics  of  degassing  of  steel  melts.  Operation  of  degassing  reactors  viz.  DH,  RH,  tank
degassers etc., Re-melting refining technologies. Vacuum Degassing process.
Ladle  Metallurgy  [14  Lectures]:  Thermodynamics  &  Kinetics  of  Deoxidation.  Types  &  selection  of  Deoxidizers,
Metallurgical  &  Thermodynamic  conditions  for  Good  Desulphurization  and  synthetic  slag.  Wire  Injection
Techniques for increased efficiency of Deoxidation &Desulphurization. Limitations of primary steel making, unit
operations and unit processes in ladle metallurgy. Ladle furnaces design and operation, injection metallurgy.
Casting  and  Special  steel  making  process  [14  Lectures]:    Ingot  casting  of  steel,  Segregation,  Ingot  Defects.
Continuous  Casting:  Heat  Transfer  and  Solidification,  bloom,  Billet,  Slab  and  Thin  strip  Caster,  primary  and
Secondary Cooling, Process parameters of the caster. Special steel making processes viz. AOD, VOD continuous
steel  making  etc.  Principles  of  Electroslag  remelting  (ESR)  &  Vacuum  Arc  Remelting  (VAR).  Advantages  over
traditional Secondary Steel Making vs Costs involved.
1. Ghosh, A., (2000), Secondary Steel Making: Principles & Applications, First edition, CRC Press.
1. Ghosh, A., Chatterjee, A., (2012), Iron and Steel Making – Theory & Practice, PHI Leasing Private Ltd.
2. Mazumdar, D., (2015), A First Course in Iron and Steel Making, Universities Press(India) Pvt. Ltd.
1. Mazumdar. D  and Koria S.C., Steel Making, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Metallurgical Engineering
and Materials Science, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,