PhD Program in Design | School of Design | IIT Jodhpur
PhD Program in Design
Announcement: Ph.D. Admission (New)
Results PhD Admission AY 2025-26, Semester II: No candidates were found suitable.
Overview The PhD program in Design at the School of Design, IIT Jodhpur, encourages the participation of design practitioners, teachers, and aspiring design researchers in getting involved in design research activities and expanding the existing body of knowledge. The program focuses on conducting design research and projects in the overlapping fields of technology, science, engineering, humanities, education, arts and crafts through an interdisciplinary approach. Please Check the Rolling Advertisement for Admission to PhD Programme
Candidates are highly encouraged to familiarize themselves with the research areas of the faculty members before applying. Prospective students should get in touch with specific professors at the School of Design to talk about their research interests and gain a better understanding of the current research focus. It is highly recommended that candidates get in touch with the faculty members to establish their research interests prior to applying (a list of faculties accepting PhD candidates for the current academic year is given below). Faculty Name Email ID Research Interest Areas Dr. Gaurav Vaidya gauravvaidya@iitj.ac.in Industrial Design, Emotional Design, New Product Innovation, Product Styling and Perception, Creativity & Idea Generation, Computer-Aided Design, Product Form and Aesthetics, Product Prototyping, Craft Culture Design and Development, Toy Design, Furniture and Space Design, Design Methods. Dr. Kedar Dicholkar kedard@iitj.ac.in Interaction design; User experience design; visual culture and narrative systems; interactive storytelling; game design; experimental and new media art; design aesthetics; art, craft, practice-based research. Dr. Pranjal Protim Borah pranjalborah@iitj.ac.in Human-computer Interaction (HCI), Human-robot Interaction (HRI), Interaction Techniques, Gesture-based Interaction, Haptics, Tangible and Haptic User Interfaces, Multi-sensory User Experience Design, Extended Reality (XR), Ageing and Accessibility, Inclusive Design, Game Design, and Machine Learning (ML). Dr. Priyabrata Rautray priyabratarautray@iitj.ac.in User Centered Design, Sustainable architecture and design solutions, Design research and Frugal Design, Product Design and Rapid Prototyping, Installation, 3D scanning and digital documentation (Photogrammetry). Dr. Sajan Pillai sajanpillai@iitj.ac.in User Experience, UX Strategy, Inclusive and Accessible Design, and Design for Emerging Technologies. Dr. Shiv Kumar Verma skv@iitj.ac.in Industrial Design, Design Methodology, Form Studies, Design Education and Pedagogy, Product Semantics, Design & Nature, and Organic/Biomorphic Design Dr. Sumana Som sumanasom@iitj.ac.in Content design in XR technology, User interface design in XR, Visual culture, Storytelling and interactivity in visual narratives, Experimental art practice, Design aesthetics, New media art, Art, craft, and toy design, Game design, Research design in creative practice, Practice-based research.
Queries In case of any technical query with respect to the online application, applicants may contact the ERP Team ( erp@iitj.ac.in ). General queries may be directed - between 10.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. on working days - to the following: Office of School of Design, Phone Number: 0291-280-1782 Email: office_design@iitj.ac.in
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 06 Mar 2026 - 04:42 PM