C-H functionalization and Photoredox Catalysis Laboratory | Chemistry | IIT Jodhpur
C-H functionalization and Photoredox Catalysis Laboratory
C-H Functionalizations and Photoredox Catalysis are arguably the most exciting, powerful and rapidly emerging fields in synthetic organic chemistry. The laboratory is focused on utilizing these powerful strategies for the development of atom-economic, efficient and functional group tolerant methods.
Dr. Sandip Murarka’s research group is dedicated to develop novel sustainable synthetic methods towards molecules of medicinal importance. To this endeavor the group has embarked on developing a diverse array of transition metal catalyzed and metal-free synthetic transformations. The research group is actively engaged in the direct chemoselective C-H functionalization leading to the formation of carbon-carbon and carbon-heteroatom bonds allowing access to untapped regions of chemical space. Direct C-H functionalization does not only render the synthetic sequence of useful molecular entities more economical and straightforward but also provide a powerful alternative to the conventional de novo strategies. On the other hand, photoredox catalysis, another cutting-edge tool which allows photosensitizers to convert visible light into chemical energy and promote single electron transfer-based organic transformations is an another heavily investigated area in Murarka research group. The group has recently unfolded a visible light induced and organophotoredox catalyzed efficient and robust radical cascade cyclization strategy towards the synthesis of biologically important alkyl substituted chroman-4-one scaffolds. Dr. Sandip’s research group envisage that such novel chemical tools should potentially unlock unique reaction pathways and facilitate rapid diversification of pharmaceutical molecules to an exciting range of closely related bioactive analogs and thereby enabling development of new chemical entities (NCEs).
Facilities Available in the Laboratory ( Click here for the list) Laboratory Users: Student Name Details Research Topic Sushanta Kumar parida PhD(S. Murarka) (July 2019-Present) Synthesis of Heterocycles using Hypervalent Iodine Reagents, and Photoredox Catalysis Sudhir Kumar Hota PhD(S. Murarka) (Jan 2020-Present) Casacade Annulations Involving Carbenes and Carbenoids, and Photocatalysis Raushan Kumar M.Sc. Thesis(S. Murarka) (July 2019–Present)  Metal free Synthesis of Heterocycles
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 12 Mar 2026 - 03:42 PM