Neuroscience & Neuro Engineering Laboratory | Bioscience & Bioengineering | IIT Jodhpur
Neuroscience & Neuro Engineering Laboratory
Detailed observation and scientific study of Neuroscience defines the structure and function of the nervous system. Major objective of the current thematic lab is to find the answers of hidden challenges linked with the new reports that can directly contribute and enhance our current understanding of how the nervous system works. It is also critical to understand the molecular defects, repair and restore the neural systems. Neuroengineering research targets those complex interface problems of living neural tissues and engineering techniques of non-living constructs.
Faculty Members associated with the lab
Amit Kumar Mishra
(91 291) 280 1206
Groups under this theme
1. Cellular & Molecular Neurobiology Unit   Tight control of numerous cellular pathways is a vast and responsible task. To facilitate our research, we are combining various latest biochemical techniques’ that enable us to explore functional aspects of E3 Ubiquitin Ligases biology in a comprehensive way. Current efforts strive for identification, assessment, and characterization of E3 Ubiquitin Ligases substrates linked with the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, neurodevelopmental disorders, and cancer. The overall goal of our Research group on Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology is to understand how confidential network of cellular quality control mechanism (Autophagy and Ubiquitin Proteasome System linked with neurodegeneration and imperfect ageing, and how mutations that disrupt these processes impact disease development.
Projects that the lab is currently catering to   1. Understanding the molecular specific scales of tumor suppressor gene 101 (tsg101) encoded LRSAM1 E3 ubiquitin ligase in the elimination of polyglutamine proteins (Dr. Amit Mishra)
Key Instrumentation Available   Cell culture facility Floid cell imaging station Inverted microscope Gel dryer Gel documentation system -80 °C freezer Single tube multi-mode reader Nanodrop spectrophotometer Realtime PCR Thermal cycler Electrophoresis systems Automated cell counter Sonicator Gene pulser system Cryotome
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Mar 2026 - 05:27 PM