Molecular Motors & Cell Motility Lab | Bioscience & Bioengineering | IIT Jodhpur
Molecular Motors & Cell Motility Lab
“Almost all aspects of life are engineered at the molecular level, and without understanding molecules we can only have a very sketchy understanding of life itself." — Francis Crick, Nobel Laureate The mechanical work for the cell is performed by the molecular motors along the cell cytoskeleton. The thematic group is focused on understanding these molecular motors & cell motility in the healthy & diseased states.
Faculty Members associated with the lab
(91 291) 280 1208
Groups under this theme
1. Centrosome Biology Group Centrosomes are molecular machineries which are involved in a plethora of cell functions like spindle organization, cell migration and cell polarization. Their number, position, organization & functioning is precisely regulated in a cell. Any defect in centrosome structure or number could lead to several human diseases like cancer, neurodevelopmental disorders and ciliopathies. The Centrosome Biology group is utilizing a combination of cellular, molecular and biochemical approaches, in order to understand the molecular details of centrosome organization in mammalian cells.
Projects that the lab is currently catering to   1. Elucidating the Role of Centrosome Protein CEP152 in Primary Microcephaly (Dr. Priyanka Singh) This project has great potential to develop a molecular understanding of microcephaly development. This might be useful for gene-therapy technologies targeting such diseases. Furthermore, this work will also improve our molecular understanding of centrosome associated proteins in cell division, which can be further extrapolated to look into neural-stem cell divisions.   2. Role of Centriole Protein,CPAP in Neurodevelopmental Disorder (Dr. Priyanka Singh) We propose a comprehensive approach using cellular, molecular and biochemical methods, to map out CPAP interaction with core centriole proteins and mutation in CPAP leading to neurodevelopmental disorder.
Key Instrumentation Available   Cell culture facility Biosafety cabinet Inverted light microscope -20 °C freezer Nanodrop spectrophotometer -80 °C freezer Gradient thermal cycler Bacteriological incubator Electrophoresis systems Refrigerated centrifuge
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Mar 2026 - 05:27 PM