Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur 342037
Institute Publications Committee
Dr. Kamaljit Rangra, Visiting Faculty, Department of Electrical Engineering
Dr. S. C. Bose, Advisor (Academics)
Dr. Sushmita Jha, Associate Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Dr. Puneet Sharma, Associate Professor, Department of Mathematics
Dr. Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Dr. Kaamya Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Dr. Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Copyright © 2019, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (www.iitj.ac.in). All rights reserved.
Vision & Mission
Board of Governors
Buildings and Works Committee
Departments and Associated Faculty Members
Ph.D. Theses Defense
R & D Projects
Patents & Publications
Awards & Recognitions
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of Days of National Importance
Primary Health Center
Student Fests & Events
Student Counseling Service
Student Placement Cell
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur is in its tenth year. This is the beginning of a new journey for the institute. It is
now well settled in the permanent campus. With all the facilities in place, this year IIT Jodhpur has
embarked on a major plan of expansion. Senate has provided approval for initiating new M.Tech,
M.Tech-Ph.D  and  M.Sc-Ph.D  dual  degree  programmes.  Institute  has  initiated  interdisciplinary
research  programmes  in  seven  broad  areas:  Space  technology,  Quantum  Information  Processing,
Cognitive  Science,  Smart  Healthcare,  IOT  and  Applications,  Digital  Humanities,  Autonomous
Vehicle. IITJ has established a new generation AI lab with installation of high-end GPU based super
computing system in collaboration with NVIDIA. It has worked out a plan to increase its student
strength to 1500 by next academic session. The process for appointment of new faculty members is
Institute  community is now  looking forward  to  a  brighter future  with  support  of  all  stake
Vision, Mission & Core Values
The Institute shall
(1)  Promote technology thought and action, and
(2)  Prepare needed technical human resources to meet the technology challenges of the nation.
The Institute shall
(1)  Create a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research, invention
and eventually innovation; and
(2)  Prepare each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere to its core
(a)  Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand Challenges of India;
(b)  Train active functionaries of a process driven professional institute;
(c)  Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive academic institute; and
(d)  Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as possible for economic
The  Institute  stands  for  a  set  of  core  values,  wherein  each  member  of  the  IIT  Jodhpur
(1)  Uphold highest levels of human integrity and dignity;
(2)  Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute;
(3)  Work towards building the most admired technology Institute furthering interests of Students,
Industries and Society;
(4)  Commit to economic development of India through technological thought and action;
(5)  Be ethical, sincere and open in all transactions; and
(6)  Be  continually  responsible  for  upholding  utmost  confidentiality  of  all  information  and
circumstances arising out of any interaction.
Under the broad umbrella of IIT Council, IIT Jodhpur functions under the guidance of the
following statutory bodies.
(1) Board of Governors;
(2) Finance Committee;
(3) Senate; and
(4) Buildings & Works Committee.
The following organogram represents the broad administrative structure of the Institute, at
Member details of these Statutory Bodies are given in the pages to follow.
Dr. R. Chidambaram
Former Principal Scientific Advisor, Government of India, and
DAE - Homi Bhabha Chair Professor, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Bombay
BOARD  OF  GOVERNORS
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
1.  Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Government of India, New Delhi
2.  Dr. Narpat S. Shekhawat
Former Professor (Plant Technology)
Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur
3.  Dr. Akhil Ranjan Garg
Professor (Electrical Engineering)
Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur
4.  Mr. Anil Bhavarlal Jain
Vice Chairman, MD & CEO
Jain Irrigation Systems, Jalgaon
Member (Nominee of Government of Rajasthan)
Dr. Subodh Agarwal, IAS
Additional Chief Secretary
Government of Rajasthan, Jaipur
Member (Nominee of Senate)
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera
Department of Physics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Dr. R. Chidambaram
Former Principal Scientific Advisor, Government of India, and
DAE - Homi Bhabha Chair Professor, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Bombay
1.  Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development
Government of India
2.  Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development
Government of India
3.  G. S. Sood, IDAS
House No. 1090, Sector 29
4.  S. S. Bhandari
Director, Non-Executive Director on the Board
Bank of Baroda
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme
Member (from within the Institute)
Dr. Gaurav Harit
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Santanu Chaudhury  Chairman
Pratap Bhanu Mehta  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
H. P. Khincha  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Sanjeev Misra  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Head, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Head, Department of Physics
Chairman’s Nominee from Departments
Professor C. Venkatesan, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Professor B. P. Kashyap, Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Associate Dean (Faculty)
Associate Dean (R&D)
Associate Dean (Academics)
Associate Dean (Students)
Chairperson, Student Hostel Warden Committee
Chairperson, Library Committee
Chairperson, Student Counselling Services Committee
Chairperson, Admissions Committee
Secretary, Academics and Careers Society, Students Gymkhana
General Secretary, Students Gymkhana
BUILDINGS  AND  WORKS  COMMITTEE
1.  Prof. Santanu Chaudhury
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
1.  Ms. Usha Kasana
Public Works Department
Government of Rajasthan
Jacob Road, Civil Lines
2.  Mr. R. K. Govil
Additional Director General Civil (Retd.), CPWD
26, Ankur Apartments
7, I.P. Extension
3.  Mr. V. K. Bansal
Chief Engineer Electrical (Retd.), CPWD
721 Sky Lark Apartment,
Sector-6, Plot No.35, Dwarka
New Delhi 110075
Member (from within the Institute)
Dr. B. Ravindra
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
At  the  implementation  level,  the  Institute  has  organized  its  activities  through  various  key
functionaries, as depicted in the organogram below.
Abbreviations of Key Functionaries & Offices
Senior Executive Engineer
ARC  Alumni Relations Committee
Stores & Purchase
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow.
Rakesh K. Sharma  Research & Development
Suril V. Shah  Academics (UG Programs)
Somnath Ghosh  Academics (PG Programs)
Samanwita Pal  Students
Heads of the Departments
Meenu Chhabra  Bioscience & Bioengineering
Ritu Gupta  Chemistry
Gaurav Harit  Computer Science & Engineering
Anil K. Tiwari  Electrical Engineering
Ankita Sharma  Humanities & Social Sciences
Gaurav Bhatnagar  Mathematics
Kaushal A. Desai  Mechanical Engineering
Sampat Raj Vadera  Physics
Professors In-Charge of Departments
B. P. Kashyap  Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Chairman / Chairperson
Gaurav Bhatnagar  Admissions Committee
Shankar Manoharan  Alumni Relations Committee
B. P. Kashyap  Best B.Tech. Project Thesis Evaluation Committee
Rakesh K. Sharma  Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment
Associate Dean (Faculty)  Fellowship Application Evaluation Committee
Advisor (Administration)  Financial, Administration & Infrastructure Committee
V. Narayanan  Grievance Redressal Committee
B. P. Kashyap  House Allotment Committee
Industry Immersion Program
Internal Complaints Committee, Women Cell
Kaushal A. Desai
Kirankumar R. Hiremath  Library Committee
Nirmal K. Rana  Medical Services Committee
Appala Naidu Gandi  Scholarships and Prizes Committee
Ankita Sharma  Student Counselling Services Committee
Puneet Sharma  Student Hostel Warden Committee
Sandip Murarka  Student Placement Committee
Associate Dean (Academics)  Students Disciplinary Action Committee
Associate Dean (Students)  Anti-Ragging Committee
Associate Dean (Students)  COTPA Committee
Associate Dean (Faculty)  House Allotment Disciplinary Action Committee
Associate Dean (R&D)  Research Publication Committee
Dr. Kuldeep Singh, Physician
Institute Ethics Committee
Ananya Debnath  Nodal Officer, Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Appala Naidu Gandi  Nodal Officer for OBC, PwD, and Minorities
Atul Kumar  Green Initiatives Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar  Transparency Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar  Nodal Officer, National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)
Gaurav Harit  Chief Vigilance Officer
Kshema Prakash  Women Cell Officer
Meenu Chhabra  Nodal Officer, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan
Priyanka Singh  Nodal Officer, Vigyan Jyoti Program
Puneet Sharma  Hindi Officer
Rakesh K. Sharma  Nodal Officer, IMRPINT India Program
Ramesh K. Metre  Nodal Officer for SC and ST
Ritu Gupta  Nodal Officer, GIAN Program
Sandip Murarka  Nodal Officer, DAAD Scholarships Program
Amardeep Sharma  Estate Officer
Somnath Ghosh  Nodal Officer, Study in India Program
Amardeep Sharma  Public Relations Officer
Amardeep Sharma  Central Public Information Officer
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay  Nodal Officer, Ishaan Vikas Program
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay  Nodal Officer, Undergraduate Research Initiative (UGRI)
Associate Dean (Academics - UG)  Co-Chairman
Associate Dean (Academics – PG)  Co-Chairman
Head, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of  Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Professor In-Charge, Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Head, Department of Physics
Convener, Focus Group – Biologically Inspired System Science
Convener, Focus Group – System Science
Associate Dean (Students)
Liaison Officer (SC/ST Cell)
General Secretary, Students Gymkhana
Secretary, Academics & Careers Society, Students Gymkhana
Appointment of new Chairman and new Members of the Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur
Dr.  R.  Chidambaram,  Former  Principal  Scientific  Advisor,  Government
of India, and DAE - Homi Bhabha Chair Professor at Bhabha Atomic Research
Centre, Bombay, is appointed as Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur.
Also,  the  Board  of  Governors  of  IIT  Jodhpur  has  been  reconstituted
New BoG and Director
with four new Members.
1.  Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Ministry of Human Resource Development
Government of India, New Delhi
2.  Narpat S. Shekhawat
Former Professor (Plant Technology)
Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur
3.  Akhil Ranjan Garg
Professor (Electrical Engineering)
Jai Narayan Vyas University, Jodhpur
4.  Anil Bhavarlal Jain
Vice-Chairman, MD & CEO
Jain Irrigation Systems, Jalgaon
Professor Santanu Chaudhury assumes charge as Director, IIT Jodhpur
Professor  Santanu  Chaudhury,  Professor,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  IIT  Delhi,
assumed charge as Director, IIT Jodhpur, on December 10, 2018. He holds B.Tech. (Electronics and
Electrical Communication Engineering) and Ph.D. (Computer Science & Engineering) degrees from
Professor Chaudhury joined as Faculty Member in the Department of Electrical Engineering,
IIT Delhi, in 1992. He was Dean, Under-Graduate Studies at IIT Delhi. He has served as Director of
CSIR-CEERI,  Pilani,  during  2016-18.  Professor  Chaudhury  is  a  recipient  of  the  Distinguished
Alumnus award from IIT Kharagpur.
Professor  Chaudhury  is  a  Fellow  of  Indian  National  Academy  of  Engineers  (INAE)  and
National  Academy  of  Sciences  (NAS).  He  is  a  Fellow  of  International  Association  for  Pattern
Recognition  (IAPR).  He  was  awarded  the  INSA  (Indian  National  Science  Academy)  Medal  for
Young Scientists in 1993. He received ACCS-CDAC award for his research contributions in 2012.
A  keen  researcher  and  a  thorough  academic,  Professor  Chaudhury  has  about  300
journals  and  conference  proceedings,  15  patents  and  4
authored/edited books to his credit.
Departments and Associated Faculty Members
The  Institute  has  organized  its  academic  activities  to  be  conducted  through  nine
1.  Bioscience & Bioengineering,
3.  Computer Science & Engineering,
4.  Electrical Engineering,
5.  Humanities & Social Sciences,
7.  Mechanical Engineering,
8.  Metallurgical & Materials Engineering, and
The Institute welcomed 7 new faculty members into the IIT Jodhpur community during this
year. Details of the departments and associated faculty members are given in the pages to follow.
Recruitment of new faculty is underway.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOSCIENCE & BIOENGINEERING
The  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  aspires  to  cater  to  the  technological
requirements of the country by conducting high-quality, translatable research and by training our
students to be technological innovators in Biological sciences.
Department  currently  offers  B.Tech.  Program  in  Biotechnology,  and  M.Tech.  &  Ph.D.
programs in Bioscience & Bioengineering. In these programs, Students are exposed to state-of-the-
art research infrastructure, where they undergo hands-on training.
The  focus  of  research  efforts  of  the  department  is  on  developing  solutions  in  the  areas  of
healthcare, environment and agriculture. Faculty members pursue complex biological questions in
the fields of:
1. Molecular & Cellular Biology,
2. Systems & Computational Biology,
3. Biomaterials & Biomechanics, and
4. Biological Processes & Bio-Devices.
The department actively collaborates with other departments of the Institute and with other
institutions of higher learning in and around Jodhpur to maximize research and teaching outcomes.
The  department  has  received  research  funding  from  premier  funding  agencies  in  India,  namely,
Ministry of Human Resource Development,  Department of Science & Technology, Department of
Biotechnology, Board of Research in Nuclear Science, Science & Engineering Board, and Wellcome
Trust DBT India Alliance.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Biological Science & Bio-Engineering: Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Head of  Department
Amit Kumar Mishra
Molecular Pharmacology and Redox Biology
Cellular and Molecular Biology
Molecular Microbiology, Host-Microbe Interaction, Genomics and Metagenomics
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell and Molecular Physiology
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
Professor U. C. Banerjee, Professor & Head, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology at National
Institute  of  Pharmaceutical  Education  and  Research  (NIPER)  is  associated  with  the  department  as
Adjunct Faculty Member.
DEPARTMENT OF  CHEMISTRY
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is where Chemistry sees Technology. At IIT Jodhpur, Chemistry
embraces  a  distinctive  locus  in  science  and  technology  collaboration.  The  department  is  making
technological contribution to new materials for energy solutions, catalysis and water. Fundamental
understanding  of  chemical  dynamics,  biological  phenomena,  Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance  and
Quantum Chemistry are growing in prominence. The vision of the Department of Chemistry is to
strive to be acknowledged for excellence in teaching, research, and outreach. The following Faculty
Members are associated with the department:
Nanomaterials & Nanodevices for Water, Energy and Healthcare
Head of Department
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry
Quantum Information Processing
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry, Chemical Reaction Dynamics
Asymmetric Catalysis and Natural Product Synthesis
Nirmal Kumar Rana
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Catalysis  for  Energy  and  Stereocontrol,  Feedstock  Chemistry,  Fuel  and  Lubricants,
Energy Storage and Water Treatment Technology
Main-group  organometallic  chemistry,  Coordination  polymers,  Inorganic-organic
hybrid materials and Metal phosphonate and phosphate chemistry
Solution and solid state NMR and NQR spectroscopy
Organic Synthesis, Development of Novel Synthetic Methods, Transition Metal
Catalyzed Synthetic Transformations, C-H Functionalization Reactions, Asymmetric
Ramesh K. Metre
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
The  primary  objective  of  the  Department  of  Computer  Science  &  Engineering  is  to  impart
quality education in the field of Computer Science. The department’s vision is to:
1.  Expand  its  depth  and  breadth  in  the  research  and  study  of  core  Computer  Science  and
2.  Continually  improve  the  research  and  teaching  environment  to  ensure  creation  of  human
resources with adequate technical and soft skills, and
3.  Establish strong industry and academia partnership to augment the classroom knowledge with
practical hands on experience.
The  Department  is  currently  offering  three  academic  programs,  namely,  B.Tech.  M.Tech.
and  Ph.D.  Programs  in  Computer  Science  &  Engineering.  The  Bachelor  of  Technology  (B.Tech.)
aims  to  develop  core  competence  in  Computer  Science  and  Engineering  among  the  students  and
thereby prepare them to carry out development work, as well as take up challenges in research. The
intake of this B.Tech. Program is 60 and M.Tech. Program is 15. The students who have graduated
from the department are either placed in reputed industries in India, or pursuing higher studies in
reputed universities within the country or abroad.
The department has research interests in core areas of Computer Science and  Engineering.
The  Doctor  of  Philosophy  (Ph.D.)  program  is  offered  with  the  goal  of  producing  state-of-the  art
research outputs. Ph.D. students are working in the areas of video analytics, image understanding,
cloud  computing,  document  analysis,  and  internet  of  things.  To  strengthen  the  core  competence,
department is also looking for Faculty Members in all areas of Computer Science and Engineering.
Also, the department is keen to collaborate with industry and academia. At present, projects
are going on with All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Jodhpur, Department of Science
and Technology, Government of India.
Moreover, department works closely with industry leaders like Microsoft, IBM, Intel, TCS,
for academics and research collaboration. In near future, the department is also planning to move
towards Outcome Based Education (OBE) along with a strong industry-academia partnership. The
department  is  steadily  striving  towards  excellence  in  both  academics  and  research  with  active
participation from faculty, staff and students.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Image and Video Analysis
Head of Department
Computer Vision, Multimedia Systems, Computational Intelligence
Distributed System, Cloud Computing, Distributed Storage, Consistency
Software Architecture, Cloud Computing, Data Analytics
The  department  also  has  a  Scholar-in-Residence,  Professor  R.  K.  Shyama  Sunder,  who  is  a
Senior Professor and J. C. Bose National Fellow at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
The department has an Adjunct Faculty Member, Professor Venkatesh Raman from Institute
of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai.
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The Department of Electrical Engineering, formerly a part of the Centre for Information and
Communication  Technology  (ICT)  at  IIT  Jodhpur  (2008),  primarily  focuses  on  imparting  quality
education  and  preparing  students  to  face  the  future  technological  challenges.  The  vision  of  the
Department  is  to  enhance  the  research  environment  and  to  innovate  in  pedagogy  to  address  the
challenges of socio-economic and human resource development. The Department is committed to
engage in high quality research by Faculty Members and Students, and in the pursuit of excellence
With  excellent  laboratory  facilities  and  dedicated  Faculty  Members,  the  Department  of
Electrical Engineering offers the following programs:
1. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering),
2. M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering), and
3. Ph.D. with specialization in Electrical Engineering.
The  broad  areas  of  research  are  Microelectronics,  Power  and  Control  Systems,
Communication  and  Signal Processing,  RF  and Microwave;  and  thrust Areas  of  Research include
1. Signal processing for healthcare,
2. Devices and circuits for security and sensing,
3. Low-cost flexible electronics,
4. Smart grids and distribution of renewable energy,
5. Wireless and mobile communication,
6. RF and Microwave, and
7. Image Processing.
The  department  has  active  on-going  collaborations  with  organizations  like  Freescale
Semiconductors,  Global  Foundries,  AIIMS  Jodhpur,  DST,  DRDO,  ISRO,  to  name  a  few.    The
Department  has  been  receiving  various  sponsored  projects  from  R&D  organizations  since  its
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Electrical Engineering: Image Processing, Video Processing, and Signal Processing
application in Bio-Medical
Anil Kumar Tiwari
Head of Department
Abdul Gafoor Shaik
Protection of various components of Power System, Protection of Distribution
Network with DG penetration, Power Quality assessment and mitigation in
Distribution Networks with Renewable Energy Source penetration
Arun Kumar Singh
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Shree Prakash Tiwari
Power Line Communications, Free Space Optical Communications, Visible Light
Group III-V Optoelectronic Devices, Fiber Optics and Integrated Optics Sensors,
Non-Linear Photonics, Silicon Photonics and Optical Communication
Communication Theory, Wireless and Mobile Communications, Satellite based
Navigation Systems, Spread Spectrum Systems
Control and state estimation of uncertain systems, Power system, Control issues
in wind energy conversion system
Group III-V quantum structures by MBE, Growth of thin films and nanostructures,
Group III-nitride alloys for LEDs, HEMTs and photovoltaic applications, Inorganic-
Inorganic hybrid structures with special attention to band gap engineering, Si and
wide band gap semiconductors for MEMS, Micro and Nano device fabrications
Signal  Processing,  Condition  Monitoring,  Image  Processing,  Data  Compression,
Blind Source Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Microelectronics & VLSI Technology, Microfabrication, Organic Electronics, Device
Physics and Characterization, New Device Structures
Image  processing,  Noise-aided  image  processing  using  Stochastic  Resonance,
Image enhancement, Digital watermarking, Image quality assessment
The department has following three Adjunct Faculty Members.
1.  Kota  V.  Murali,  Chief  Technologist,  Semiconductor  Research  and  Development  Center,  IBM
2.  Debashish Datta, Retired Professor, IIT Kharagpur; and
3.  Akshay  Kumar  Rathore,  Associate  Professor,  Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering,  Concordia
University, Montreal, Canada.
The following activities were organized by the department during the FY 2018-19.
ANSOFT HFSS Workshop, 01-02 March 2019
Workshop on ANSOFT HFSS was organized by the Department of Electrical Engineering at
IIT Jodhpur during 01-02 March 2019.
The Department of Electrical Engineering celebrated Department Day on 11 March 2019. The
event was inaugurated by the Director, and the activities included an invited lecture by Prof. P. K.
Biswas, IIT Kharagpur, followed by a poster symposium by PhD students of the Department. Best
TA Award was presented to Bhuvnesh Rathore during the event.
The following are the collaborations by the Faculty Members.
1.  Aashish Mathur with Prof. Michael Cheffena and Dr. Yun Ai, NTNU, Norway in the area of in
PLC and FSO.
2.  Anoop Jain with Prof. Debasish Ghose, IISc, Bangalore and Prof. Daniel Zelazo, Technion in
the areas of multi-agent systems and nonlinear control.
Soumava Mukherjee with Prof. A. Biswas, Prof. M. J. Akhtar, IIT Kanpur in the area of SIW
DEPARTMENT OF  HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES
The  Department  of  Humanities  and  Social  Sciences  operates  from  spaces  that  gives  an
opportunity to act as an interface between empirical and experiential knowledge systems. Playing a
significant role in the academic curriculum of the young engineers, we offer both core and elective
courses  at  the  Bachelors,  Masters,  and  Doctoral  levels.  The  ability  to  provide  tools  and  skills  for
specific  aims  notwithstanding,  the  essence  of  Humanities  and  Social  Sciences  involves  the
sensitizing  of  individuals.  Acting  as  facilitators,  thus,  we  engage  in  meaningful  interactions  with
students and help them witness, study, and understand the interplays among technology, society,
and  humanity.  This  task  assumes  even  more  significance  in  an  educational  context  where  the
brightest young minds of India come together.
With  faculty  members  who  specialize  in  diverse  disciplines  (including  Philosophy,
Psychology,  and  Literature)  and  with  students  from  a  spectrum  of  backgrounds,  the  department
provides an enriching platform where technical education can be complemented with human and
social understanding. Following are the faculty members associated with the department.
Psychology: Gerontology, Clinical and Positive Psychology
Head of Department
K. J. George
V. Hari Narayanan
Philosophy: Applied Ethics, Ethics of Technology, Bioethics
Philosophy:  Cognitive  Studies,  Evolutionary  Theory,  Analytic  Philosophy  and
Sociology/Sociocultural  Anthropology:  Gender  Studies;  Postcolonial  South  Asia;
International and Transnational Migrations, Qualitative Research
English:  Literature  and  Environment  (Ecocriticism),  Film  and  Literature,  Literatures  of
the Global South, Regional Literatures in Translation,  American Literature
Chhanda  Chakraborti,  Professor,  Humanities  &  Social  Sciences,  IIT  Kharagpur  is  associated
with the Department as Adjunct faculty member.
Mayurakshi Chaudhuri was invited to participate in the Direct To Home (DTH) project by
the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD). As part of the project, she has recorded a
set of 20 lectures on the course Gender and Society at the Media Center, IIT Kanpur, which is the
Coordinating Institute for the project. Her lectures shall be telecast on Channel 16 for Humanities &
Social  Sciences  and  Management,  by  Doordarshan.  Channel  16  has  already  begun  telecasting
courses since early 2018.
DEPARTMENT OF  MATHEMATICS
Mathematics,  being  the  basis  of  many  disciplines,  is  a  subject  that  evolves  with  time  and
creates new theories to solve real-world challenging problems. The department has been taking a
leading role in developing new methods to model such situations that can be used in diverse areas
of  computer  science,  engineering,  and  basic  sciences.  The  department  has  faculty  with  research
interests  in  the  areas  of  Algebra,  Mathematical  Physics,  Scientific  Computation,  Numerical
Analysis,  Partial  Differential  Equations,  Topological  Dynamics,  Low  Dimensional  Chaos,
Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-dimensional dynamics, Wavelet Analysis, Fractional
Transform  Theory,  Image  Processing,  Financial  Risk  Analysis,  Categorical  Data  Analysis,
Reliability Theory and Applied Probability.
The  department  offers  high-quality  programs  at  postgraduate  level,  M.Sc.(Mathematics)
and  Ph.D.(Mathematics)  catering  mathematical  interests  of  students  in  various  areas  of  pure  and
applied  mathematics.  The  institute  has  also  approved  two  year  M.Tech  program  in  Data  and
Computational  Sciences,  a  four-year  M.Sc-M.Tech  program  in  Data  and  Computational  Sciences
and an M.Tech-Ph.D. dual degree program in Data and Computational Sciences to be offered by the
department of Mathematics, and are expected to commence from the upcoming academic session.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department.
Wavelet  Analysis,  Fractional  Transform  Theory,  Multimedia  Security,
Processing, Information Fusion
Head of Department
Theoretical, mathematical and computational aspects of wave-matter interactions
Kirankumar R. Hiremath
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-Dim Dynamics
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Regression
DEPARTMENT OF  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
The  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering  primarily  focuses  on  imparting  quality
education  and  preparing  students  to  face  the  future  technological  challenges  in  the  field  of
Mechanical engineering. The vision of the Department is to enhance the research environment and
to  innovate  in  pedagogy  to  address  the  challenges  of  socio-economic  and  human  resource
development.  The  Department  is  committed  to  high  quality  research  by  Faculty  Members  and
Students in the pursuit of excellence in teaching.
The department offers B. Tech. in Mechanical Engineering  providing specializations across
different domains in Mechanical engineering. The department also offers high quality postgraduate
programs,  M.Tech.(Mechanical  Engineering)  and  Ph.D.(Mechanical  Engineering)  with  a  broad
range  of  specializations.  The  institute  has  approved  to  offer  minor  degrees  in  Management  and
Entrepreneurship for B. Tech. students and to offer interdisciplinary specializations in the emerging
areas  such  as  Artificial  Intelligence  (AI),  Data  and  Computational  Science,  Smart  Healthcare,
Energy Materials and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS). All approved minor degrees are expected to
be offered from upcoming academic session.
The department offers a high quality Ph.D. program along different technology tracks. The
institute  has  approved  two  state-of-the-art  M.Tech.  programs,  M.Tech.
Engineering  and  M.Tech  in  Advanced  Manufacturing  and  Design  and  a  dual  degree  (M.  Tech.  +
Ph.  D.)  program  to  be  offered  by  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering.  The  programs  are
expected  to  commence  from  the  upcoming  academic  session.  The  department  is  well-equipped
with laboratories in different domains of Mechanical Engineering. The department has vast variety
of  computational  tools  such  as  ANSYS,  ABAQUS,  OpenFOAM,  Solidworks,  Hyperworks,  Creo,
Tecplot,  MATLAB  etc.  along  with  high  end  computational  facilities.  The  department  has  active
collaborations with AIIMS Jodhpur, General Electric, Thermax, DRDO, ISRO, TCS Innovation Lab,
TVS  Motor  Company  to  name  a  few.   The  department  has  been  attracting  various  sponsored
projects from R&D organizations since its inception.
Technology Tracks include the following.
1. Additive Manufacturing
2. Conventional and Non-Conventional Machining
3. Casting, Welding and Forming
4. Non-linear Vibration
6. Robot Modelling and Control
7. All Terrain Vehicles
8. Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
9. Energy and Propulsion
10. Solar Resource Assessment
11. Solar Thermal Storage
12. Solar Thermal Applications
13. Multi-phase Flow and Heat Transfer
14. Air Cooled Condensers
15. Compact Heat Exchanger
16. Heat Transfer Enhancement
17. Water energy Nexus
18. Technologies for Rural Development
19. Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0
20. Metrology and Quality Control
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Modeling  of  Manufacturing  Processes,  CAD/CAM,  CNC  Machining,  Error
Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Head of Department
Water, Water Management and Characterization of Engineered Materials
Anand Krishnan Plappally
Design, Dynamics, Vibration and Control
Hardik B. Kothadia
Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Dynamics  of  Machines  and  Structures,  Flexible  Robots,  MEMS,  Rotor  Dynamics,
Helicopter  Dynamics  and  Aeroelasticity,  Design  of  Autonomous  Mini  Helicopters,
and Smart Structure Analysis
Multiphase  Flow,  Boiling  and  Condensation,  Heat  Transfer,  Fluid  Mechanics,
Heat  and  mass  transfer,  Latent  heat  based  storage  device  for  high  temperature
applications, Alloy solidification process, Active and passive solar cooling systems,
behaviour of materials
joining,  Manufacturing  and  materials  processing,  Mechanical
Robotics, Multibody Dynamics and Control
Suril V. Shah
Energy  Technology,  Combustion  Technology,  Computational  Fluid  Dynamics,
Turbulent flows, Sprays
DEPARTMENT OF  METALLURGICAL & MATERIALS  ENGINEERING
The  Institute  has  started  Department  of  Metallurgical  &  Materials  Engineering  in  January
2017.  The  department  is  currently  offering  two  degree  programs,  namely,  M.Tech.,  and  Ph.D.  in
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering. The focus areas of the department are:
(1) Electronic Materials, Biomaterials, Optical and Magnetic Materials and Devices,
(2) Extraction of Metals and Mineral Processing,
(3) Integrated Computational Materials Engineering,
(4) Materials Processing and Process Development,
(5) Physical and Mechanical Metallurgy of Materials, and
(6) Thermodynamics and Kinetic Processes in Materials.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Bhagwati P. Kashyap
Thermo-mechanical  treatment  and  Super-plasticity,  Grain  boundary  phenomena,
-  flow  property
correlations, and Light metals and alloy development
low  temperature  deformation,  Microstructure
Mechanical Behavior of Materials, Fatigue of Bearing Steels, High-strain rate
Deformation of Materials, Indentation Response of Materials
First Principles Calculations, Phase Filed Modelling
Appala Naidu Gandi
Computational Thermodynamics for Alloy Design, Solidification Studies on light
alloys, Biodegradable magnesium alloys, Self-cleaning coating
Ravi, K. R.
The following activities were organized by the department.
International Day of Light Celebration
International  Day  of  Light  was  observed  on  16  May  2018.  On  this  occasion,  the  department
organized a lecture by Professor B. M. Arora, an eminent scientist and academic from IIT Bombay.
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its applications is the major theme of
Physics  department  at  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  faculty  members  carry  out  research  in  the  field  of
Astrophysics,  Condensed  Matter  Physics  &  Material  Science,  Particle  Physics,  Experimental  and
Theoretical Quantum Optics, Quantum Information and Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. The
research  facilities  available  in  the  department  include  SQUID  magnetometer,  Physics  Property
Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman Spectrometer and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM).
Following are the faculty members associated with the department.
Solid State Physics, Materials Science, Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Stealth
Materials, Stealth Technology
Sampat Raj Vadera
Head of Department
Semiconductors, multifunctional ferroics & materials for energy-fabrication &
characterization, Photovoltaic materials & devices ab initio DFT study and device
Particle Physics and Cosmology
Ashutosh Kumar Alok
Magnetic thin films and nanoparticles, Permanent Magnets, Synchrotron and Neutron
Scattering and X-ray imaging
Astrophysics, Astroparticle physics
Information Processing in Biological Systems
Open Quantum Systems; Quantum Information; Non-Equilibrium Statistical Mechanics;
Light in disordered and complex systems, Mid-IR photonics and unconventional
Optics and Solar Field Design, Plasmonics, Laser Produced Plasmas (LPP), Pulsed Laser
Deposition (PLD), Plasma Diagnostics (Interferometry & Optical Emission
Spectroscopy (OES)), Laser Matter Interaction and Laser Cluster Interaction
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor K. L. Chopra, Advisor, Thin Film
Laboratory, IIT Delhi.
The  following  are  the  Staff  Members  engaged  in  various  Offices  and  Departments  of  the
Academic Staff Members
Office of Library
Amit Kumar Soni
Kamleshkumar J. Patel
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Administrative Staff Members
Office of Academics
Sandeep Singh Chandel
Ram Niwas Dhayal
Office of Accounts
Office of Administration
Office of Alumni Relations & Student Placement
Gurpreet Kaur Virdi
Office of Establishment
Abhay Kumar Awasthi
Office of Infrastructure Engineering
T. Madhavi Lata
Senior Executive Engineer (Civil)
Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil)
Assistant Engineer (Electrical)
Assistant Engineer (Civil)
Junior Engineer (Civil)
Office of Internal Audit
Office of Recruitment
Darsh Kumar Khatwani
Shyam Sunder Singh
Office of Research & Development
Office of Students
Sandeep Singh Chandel
Mahesh Kumar Meena
Physical Training Instructor
Office of Stores & Purchase
Shakti Ranjan Patra
Suresh Chandra Phulara
Administrative Staff Members engaged in Offices of Departments
Dhani Ram Choudhary
Technical Staff Members
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Junior Technical Superintendent
Department of Chemistry
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav
Poonam Chand Sankhla
Ram Singh Ratnu
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Department of Electrical Engineering
Junior Technical Superintendent
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Chandra Veer Charan
Dhavalbhai M. Raiyani
Assistant Workshop Superintendent
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Sampatlal N. Suthar
Department of Physics
Narendra Kumar Singh
Current Academic Programs
Currently, the Institute offers the following four sets of Programs:
1.  Bachelor of Technology Programs:
1.  B.Tech. (Biotechnology)
2.  B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering)
3.  B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
4.  B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
2.  Master of Science Programs
1.  M.Sc. (Chemistry)
2.  M.Sc. (Mathematics)
3.  M.Sc. (Physics)
3.  Master of Technology Programs
1.  M.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering)
2.  M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
3.  M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
4.  M.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
5.  M.Tech. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)
4.  Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1.  Ph.D. with specialization in Biology
2.  Ph.D. with specialization in Chemistry
3.  Ph.D. with specialization in Computer Science & Engineering
4.  Ph.D. with specialization in Electrical Engineering
5.  Ph.D. with specialization in Humanities & Social Sciences
6.  Ph.D. with specialization in Mathematics
7.  Ph.D. with specialization in Mechanical Engineering
8.  Ph.D. with specialization in Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
9.  Ph.D. with specialization in Physics
Senate of the Institute has approved the following new programs from AY 2019-20.
Upcoming Academic Programs
1. Master of Science - Master of Technology Programs
1. Mathematics & Data Science
2. Master of Technology Programs
1. M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
2. M.Tech. (Artificial Intelligence)
3. M.Tech. (Cyber Physical Systems)
4. M.Tech. (Sensors and Internet of Things)
5. M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences)
6.  M.Tech. (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
7. M.Tech. (Thermofluids Engineering)
8. M.Tech. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)
3. Master of Technology - Doctor of Philosophy (M.Tech.-Ph.D.) Dual Degree Programs
1.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Bioscience & Bioengineering)
2.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Computer Science & Engineering)
3.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Artificial Intelligence)
4.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Communication Engineering)
5.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Cyber Physical Systems)
6.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Sensors and Internet of Things)
7.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Data and Computational Sciences)
8.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)
9.   M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Design Engineering)
10. M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Advanced Manufacturing and Design)
11.  M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Thermofluids Engineering)
4. Doctor of Philosophy Program in Inter-disciplinary Areas
1.  Ph.D. (AUV Technologies)
2.  Ph.D. (Cognitive Science)
3.  Ph.D. (Digital Humanities)
4.  Ph.D. (IOT & Applications)
5.  Ph.D. (Quantum Information and Computation)
6.  Ph.D. (Smart Healthcare)
7.  Ph.D. (Space Technologies)
The following Ph.D. Students defended their theses successfully this year:
S.No.  Name of the
Title of Thesis
Systems modeling of target
and chemical profiles of
drugs to predict their
phenotypic side effects
with canonical correlation
Rahul Badhwar  Systems Biological
Investigations of Brain
Ferroics and Their Rubber
Composites for Wide-band
HoD Bioscience &
HoD Bioscience &
Ambesh Dixit and
Center / Focus Group
Date of Defense
2 April 2018
18 April 2018
4 June 2018
Rohitash Kumar  Design, Development and
17 July 2018
Characterization of Low
Temperature Phase Change
Materials for Thermal
Structures For Delay
Sensitive Traffic in
Data Center Network
B. Venkata Ramana  Computer Science &
13 July 2018
Ranveer Singh   A Measure of Balance,
19 July 2018
Spectra of Signed Graphs,
Novel Algorithm for Matrix
generative models using
Technical Analysis for
Short-Term Forecasting of
Financial Data and Turn of
the Year Effect
19 July 2018
System Science and
associated with the
5 October 2018
Parvinder Singh   Analysing Multiqubit
System Science &
8 October 2018
10.  Om Prakash
Power Quality Assessment
and Mitigation in
System with Renewable
Abdul Gafoor Shaik  Electrical
11 October 2018
S.No.  Name of the
Title of Thesis
Center / Focus
Date of Defense
Suresh Dahiya   Massive MIMO Systems:
Arun Kumar Singh  Electrical
13 October 2018
Channel Modeling and
Conflicts in Geometry
Graph Theoretic Aspects of
14.  Amrita Kaurwar  Characterization of Clay
15.  Rakesh Joshi
Ceramics based on reuse of
Organic residue and
Industrial wastes for Point
of Use Water Filteration
on Development and
Assessment of Glass to
Computer Science &
8 January 2019
11 January 2019
28 January 2019
25 January 2019
16.  Manish Raghav  Dynamics of a General Non-
7 February 2019
17.  Goutam Kumar
18.  Vibhuti Joshi
19.  Arun Kumar
20.  Vipin Joshi
Thin Films and
Modulations of E3 Ubiquitin
Ligases Regulate Cellular
Innovative Harnessing of
Protein Quality Control
Modeling and Simulation of
Gallium Nitride High
Optimisation of Buffer
14 February 2019
Center for Solar
associated with the
Amit Kumar Mishra  Bioscience &
22 February 2019
Amit Kumar Mishra  Bioscience &
27 February 2019
27 February 2019
The  Institute  has  signed  Memoranda  of  Understanding  (MoUs)  with  several  international
and national universities, agencies for furthering cooperation on specific fronts. These MoUs are:
International Institutes and Universities
Central Connecticut State University, New Britain, Connecticut, USA (08 October 2018)
To  implement  academic  exchange  and  cooperation  in  teaching,  research  and  training
for the advancement and dissemination of learning.
(b)  National Institutes and Universities
1.  National Law University, Jodhpur (Continuing)
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
2.  All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur (10 July 2018)
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
3.  All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur (06 September 2018)
For development of joint Center for Healthcare Technologies.
CSIR – Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute (21 January 2019)
For  development  of  exchange  programs  based  on  their  respective  academic  and
CSIR - Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, New Delhi (26 February 2019)
For the joint pursuit of education, advancement of research and product development.
6.  National Digital Library of India, a project of MHRD (26 February 2019)
Collaboration  to  carry  out  research  and  develop  a  production  quality  Digital
Representation Generation tool for Bangla scanned image textual contents.
7.  National Coordinating Institute IIT Delhi (Unnat Bharat Abhiyan) and Regional Coordinating
Institute, IIT Jodhpur (06 March 2019)
MoU in line with Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, Ministry of Human Resource Development
1.  NVIDIA (30 January 2019)
To develop next generation AI systems at IIT Jodhpur’s AINEXT Centre, with NVIDIA
as a key technology and computing platform partner.
Sponsored Research Projects
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
(1)    How LRASM1 gene regulates cellular protein quality control functions? Implications in neurodegeneration
R & D Projects
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),  Government of
PI: Amit Mishra
Start Date: 26 Sep 2016
End Date: 25 Sep 2019
Rs. 23.10 Lakhs
(2)    Molecular studies to delineate the role of nitric oxide/nitric oxide synthase in neutrophil maturation,
survival and functions
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),  Government of
PI: Madhu Dixit
Start Date: 15 May 2018
End Date: 23 Feb 2021
Rs. 88.40 Lakhs
(3)    Bioremediation of low level wastes including denitrification using microbial fuel cells
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra;  Co-
PI: Atul Kumar
Start Date: 12 Mar 2018
End Date: 30 Sep 2018
Rs. 22.73 Lakhs
(4)    Development of low cost Microbial Carbon capture (MCC) cells for algae cultivation and powers
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra
Rs. 77.59 Lakhs
Start Date: 24 Dec 2018
End Date: 23 Dec 2019
(5)    Role of Centriole Protein, CPAP, in Neurodevelopmental disorder
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),  Government of
PI: Priyanka Singh
Start Date: 28 Nov 2018
End Date: 27 Nov 2020
Rs. 38.74 Lakhs
(6)    Hospital-associated ESKAPE pathogens: Unraveling novel regulatory layers controlling virulence and
The Wellcome Trust / DBT India Alliance
PI: Shankar Manoharan
Rs. 1.64 Cr.
(7)    Deposition of particulate matter in lungs
Start Date: 17 Jan 2018
End Date: 31 Aug 2022
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha
Rs. 24.79 Lakhs
Start Date: 12 Mar 2014
End Date: 31 Mar 2019
(8)    Expression analysis of inflammasome-forming NLRs in gliomas for identification of novel therapeutic
Rs. 42.15 Lakhs
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha
Integrative Approach for Identification of Disease Genes of Type II Diabetes
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),  Government of
PI: Sushmita Paul
Department of Chemistry
(10)   Multiparticle Entanglement, Nonlocality and Quantum Information processing-Analysing the role and
Start Date: 30 Mar 2017
Start Date: 06 Sep 2017
End Date: 29 Mar 2020
End Date: 05 Sep 2020
Rs. 26.76 Lakhs
applications of quantum correlations
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) ), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Atul Kumar
Start Date: 18 Mar 2019
End Date: 18 Mar 2022
Rs. 19.50 Lakhs
(11)    Development of Catalytic Diastereo and Enantiodivergent Tandem Reactions
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
Rs. 35 Lakhs
PI: Nirmal Kumar Rana
Start Date: 02 July 2018
End Date: 01 Nov 2020
(12)   Solid State High Energy Density Lithium Ion Rechargeable & Technlogy
Indo-Portugal Research Center, Minho, Portugal
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma  Rs. 6.45 Lakhs
(13)   Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to Transport Fuel
Start Date: 26 June 2014
End Date: 22 May 2018
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma  Rs. 94.79 Lakhs
Impact of Rainwater Harvesting on Groundwater Quality in India with Specific Reference to Fluoride and
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma  Rs. 75.27 Lakhs
Start Date: 10 May 2018
Start Date: 24 Dec 2014
End Date: 09 May 2021
End Date: 23 Dec 2019
(15)   New Single Source Precursors for Potential Nanostructured Bi2Te3/sb2Te3 System Based Thermoelectric
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Ramesh K. Metre
Start Date: 05 Oct 2017
End Date: 04 Oct 2020
Rs. 32.12 Lakhs
(16)   Development of electrochemical energy storage from carbon rich waste
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Ritu Gupta;
Co-PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Start Date: 02 Mar 2017
End Date: 01 Mar 2020
Rs. 37.17 Lakhs
(17)   Solid state Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) assessment of zinc oxide (ZnO) nanomaterial based drug
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Samanwita Pal;
Co-PI: Ambesh Dixit
Start Date: 28 Aug 2017
End Date: 27 Aug 2020
Rs. 34.45 Lakhs
(18)   Tandem Annulations Involving Metallocarbenes: Towards Diverse Molecular Architectures
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Sandip Murarka
End Date: 09 July 2021
Start Date: 10 Jul 2018
Rs. 33 Lakhs
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
(19)   Development of Multimodal Search Framework For Architectural Floor Plan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Information Access from Document Images of Indian Languages
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) & Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY)
PI: Gaurav Harit
Start Date: 30 Mar 2017
Start Date: 25 Oct 2017
End Date: 29 Mar 2020
End Date: 24 Oct 2020
Rs. 24.5 Lakhs
Rs. 40 Lakhs
(21)   Netapp Faculty Fellowship: Edge Computing
PI: Subhajit Sidhanta
Indian Heritage in Digital Space of Interdisciplinary cyber physical Systems
Department of Science & Technology (DST)
PI: Santanu Chaudhury
Start Date: 25 Mar 2019
Start Date: 02 Feb 2018
Rs. 12.75 Cr.
Rs. 5 Lakhs
End Date: 01 Feb 2020
End Date: 24 Mar 2022
(23)   Software as a service for OCR system for Odia Documents Images
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY)
PI: Santanu Chaudhury;
Co-PI: Gaurav Harit
Rs. 20.16 Lakhs
Start Date: 26 Mar 2019
End Date: 25 Sep 2020
(24)   Digital Representation Generation for Efficient Retrieval of Bangla Document Images in Digital Libraries
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur & Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD)
PI: Santanu Chaudhury;
Co-PI: Gaurav Harit
Start Date: 01 Mar 2019
Rs. 76 Lakhs
End Date: 31 Jan 2020
Department of Electrical Engineering
(25)   Transforming Healthcare through Tech-dinor
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Rs. 14.25 Lakhs
Start Date: 02 Dec 2014
End Date: 01 Dec 2016
(26)   Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) based Circuits and Systems for Millimeter Wave Application
PI: Soumava Mukherjee
Rs. 35 Lakhs
Start Date: 20 Sep 2017
End Date: 19 Sep 2022
(27)   Design and Development of Midrange(>=10 km) RF Transceiver system to transmit Nuclear Radiation
Defence Research & Development Organization, Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Arpit Khandelwal;
Co-PI: Suril V. Shah
Start Date: 17 Dec 2018
Rs. 9.60 Lakhs
End Date: 16 Dec 2019
(28)   Computationally efficient fixed complexity sphere decodes for multiuser MIMO communications
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Arun Kumar Singh
Start Date: 13 Jan 2016
End Date: 12 Jan 2019
Rs. 22.82 Lakhs
(29)   Design and development of NavIC Receiver
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India
PI: Arun Kumar Singh
Start Date: 18 Oct 2017
Rs. 64.55 Lakhs
End Date: 17 April 2020
(30)   Hub and Spoke Consortia for e2W and e3W Electric Drives-Design Development of Prototyping of
Advanced IM and Synchronous Reluctance Drives and Vehicle Integration for e2W and e3W Applications
Department of Heavy Industry (NFTDC), Government of India
PI: Deepak Fulwani
Start Date: 31 Aug 2018
End Date: 30 Aug 2020
Rs. 24.40 Lakhs
(31)   Design and Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar;
Co-PI: Satyajit Sahu
Start Date: 04 Dec 2017
Rs. 20 Lakhs
End Date: 03 Dec 2019
(32)   Noise-enhanced Edge-preserving Image Denoising using Stochastic Resonance
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Start Date: 17 Mar 2017
End Date: 16 Mar 2020
Rs. 26.64 Lakhs
(33)   Special Manpower development Program for Chips to System Design (SMDP-C2SD)/ Design of a Sensor
Signal Conditioning System (I) & Multiprocessor Scheduling Alogrithms using Control Theoretic Approach
Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari;
Co-PI: Deepak Fulwani
Start Date: 11 Aug 2015
End Date: 31 Mar 2020
Rs. 10.43 Lakhs
(34)   High Performance Low Voltage Flexible Organic Field-Effect Transistors for Circuit and Sensing
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 51.70 Lakhs
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
(35)   Wisdom as cognitive and motivational-emotional heuristics in ecologically rational decision making
Start Date: 15 Sep 2018
End Date: 14 Sep 2021
Department of Science & Technology, Government of India
PI: Ankita Sharma
Rs. 22.3 Lakhs
Start Date: 29 Apr 2015
End Date: 28 Apr 2018
(36)   Where the Bougainvillea Blooms: Stories of Place from a Resilient Landscape
M. R. A. R. Educational Foundation
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran
Rs. 0.5 Lakhs
(37)   Public Outreach Grant
Start Date: 04 Sep 2014
End Date: 03 Sep 2015
The Rachel Carson Center for Environment and Society, Munich, Germany
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran
Start Date: 05 Jun 2017
Rs. 1.06 Lakhs
End Date: 04 Jun 2019
Department of Mathematics
(38)   Multimedia security based on biometrics for copyright protection and authentication
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Gaurav Bhatnagar  Rs. 13.44 Lakhs
End Date: 12 Nov 2017  Project Extended
Start Date: 13 Nov 2014
(39)   Automorphism Groups of Induced Symbolic Systems
National Board for Higher Mathematics (NBHM), Government of India
Start Date: 31 Mar 2017
Rs. 3.32 Lakhs
PI: Puneet Sharma
End Date: 30 Mar 2020
Department of Mechanical Engineering
(40)   Local Composite geotextile mats for soil and water conservation in western Rajasthan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally
Start Date: 30 Aug 2016
End Date: 29 Aug 2019
Rs. 19.80 Lakhs
(41)   Hybrid reactionless manipulation and visual serving of a satellite mounted robot for autonomous on orbit
PI: Suril V. Shah
Rs. 35 Lakhs
Start Date: 27 Jan 2016
End Date: 28 Nov 2018
(42)   Bifurcation and stability assessment of a highly lightweight rotor-bearing system with moving platform
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Barun Pratiher
Start Date: 17 Jul 2014
End Date: 16 Jul 2017
Rs. 21.80 Lakhs
(43)   Performance Testing of ACC Tube Bundles Along With Establishing Their Theoretical Correlation
Thermax SPX Energy Technologies Limited
Rs. 29.15 Lakhs
PI: Hardik Kothadia
Start Date: 27 Mar 2019
End Date: 26 Sep 2019
(44)   Minimizing deflection induced surface errors in end milling of thin walled components
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Kaushal A. Desai
Start Date: 26 July 2016
End Date: 25 Jul 2019
Rs. 15.34 Lakhs
(45)   Thermal Design of PCM Cool and Warm Vest
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Prodyut R. Chakraborty;
Co-PI: Akshay Prakash
Start Date: 02 Dec 2015
Rs. 9.96 Lakhs
End Date: 30 Jun 2019
(46)   Cascaded Latent Heat Storage (CLHS) for high temperature CSP applications material development and
characterization to lab-scale setup
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Prodyut R. Chakraborty;
Co-PI: Laltu Chandra, Ambesh Dixit,
Rs. 58.44 Lakhs
Start Date: 03 Aug 2018
(47)   Development of Highly Efficient Low Cost Insulation for power plants
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India
PI: Sudipto Mukhopadhyay
Rs. 93.47 Lakhs
Start Date: 07 May 2018
End Date: 02 Aug 2021
End Date: 06 May 2021
Department of Physics
(48)   Synchrony Based Evolution of Various Biological and Artificial Systems to Understand Complex
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
Rs. 35 Lakhs
PI: Satyajit Sahu
Start Date: 13 Mar 2013
End Date: 12 Mar 2019
(49)   Development of III-Nitrides thin film(s) for high frequency saw device applications
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 22.62 Lakhs
Start Date: 01 Apr 2013
End Date: 30 Jun 2018
(50)   Probing Magnetic Structures and Spin Flop transition in bulk and nanostructured FeVo4  Multiferroic
UGC-DAE, Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Start Date: 13 Jan 2016
Rs. 6.60 Lakhs
End Date: 31 Dec 2019
(51)   Development of nanostructured Cu2ZnSn(S/Se)4 thin films and their electronic properties for next
generation solar photovoltaic applications
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 37.22 Lakhs
Start Date: 18 Mar 2017
End Date: 17 Mar 2020
(52)   Application specialty optical fibers and towards 1D random lasers in disordered lattices
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
Rs. 35 Lakhs
PI: Somnath Ghosh
Investigation of magnetoelectric coupling in Cil-xTMxOMultiferroic System
Board Of Research In Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Mumbai
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Start Date: 28 Mar 2017
Start Date: 27 Mar 2014
Rs. 23.42 Lakhs
End Date: 27 Mar 2019
End Date: 26 Mar 2017
(54)   Synthesis and study of properties of electrochemically active composites based on lithium intercalated
silicates of iron, manganese,cobalt and having high electron conductivity corbosilicides of transition
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Start Date: 22 Nov 2018
End Date: 07 Nov 2020
Rs. 23.31 Lakhs
(55)   Magnetars with Superfluid Core
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Monika Sinha
Start Date: 21 Mar 2018
End Date: 20 Mar 2021
Rs. 20.60 Lakhs
(56)   Possibilities and Device Applications of Degenerate Optical Microcavities
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of
PI: Somnath Ghosh
End Date: 08 May 2021
Rs. 34.89 Lakhs
Start Date: 09 May 2018
(57)   A Study of quantum correlations : Squeezing and its various facets
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Start Date: 22 Aug 2016
Rs. 5.10 Lakhs
Department of Chemistry
Towards the development of low-cost water quality sensors - Phase I
Panasonic R&D Center of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Towards the development of low-cost water quality sensors - Phase II
Panasonic R&D Center of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 64.37 Lakhs
Rs. 2.35 Lakhs
End Date: 22 Aug 2019
Start Date: 01 Oct 2014
Start Date: 16 Feb 2015
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Short term course on Helicopter dynamics and handling qualities
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Government of India
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah;
Co-PI: C. Venkatesan
Rs. 3.72 Lakhs
Start Date: 15 Feb 2017
(4)  Visual Servoing of Mobile Manipulator with application to smart warehouse and smart factory
Tata Consultancy Limited
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah
Rs. 10.12 Lakhs
Start Date: 01 Jul 2017
(5)  Helicopter Dynamics and Handling Quality
PI: C. Venkatesan
Rs. 3.42 Lakhs
Start Date: 10 Dec 2018
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Identification, assessment and characterization of E3 ubiquitin ligases implicated in the
Ramalingaswami Fellowship Project
PI: Amit Mishra
Start Date: 15 July 2011
Rs. 74.50 Lakhs
End Date: 14 Feb 2017
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvarya PhD Scheme
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)
PI: Gaurav Harit
Start Date: 22 Jan 2018
Rs. 22.2 Lakhs
End Date: 21 Jan 2020
Department of Electrical Engineering
Rs. 3 Cr.
Start Date: 21 Oct 2014
Visvesvaraya Ph.D Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT (Part-2)
Media Lab Asia
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari
Visvesvaraya Ph.D Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT (Part-2)
Media Lab Asia
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari
Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvarya PhD Scheme
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Young Faculty Research Fellowship (YFRF) of Visvesvarya PhD Scheme
Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY)
PI: Deepak Fulwani
Start Date: 01 Feb 2018
Start Date: 24 Jan 2018
Start Date: 21 Oct 2014
Rs. 37 Lakhs
Rs. 37 Lakhs
Rs. 3 Cr.
End Date: 20 Oct 2019
End Date: 20 Oct 2019
End Date: 23 Jan 2020
End Date: 31 Jan 2020
Department of Physics
(7)    Design and Development of Metal Oxide Hole Transporting Material (HTM) based Inverted
Perovskite Solar Cell (iPSC) Under Ambient Conditions
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 21.18 Lakhs
Start Date: 26 sep 2018
End Date: 25 Sep 2023
Department of Electrical Engineering
(1)    Design and Fabrication of Germanium on Silicon near infrared photodetectors
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Saravanan Rajamani
Rs. 19.20 Lakhs
Start Date: 09 Aug 2017
End Date: 08 Aug 2019
Department of Chemistry
(2)    Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD)
PI: Ananya Debnath
Rs. 3.77 Lakhs
Start Date: 06 Mar 2017
End Date: 05 Mar 2020
Department of Mechanical Engineering
(3)    Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (RCI)
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally
Rs. 5 Lakhs
Start Date: 31 Mar 2019
End Date: 31 Mar 2020
Appearing below are the details of completed sponsored research projects.
Department of Electrical Engineering
Rs. 61.29 Lakhs
Ion-Beam Synthesis and Characterization of Gallium Nitride based Nanocrystals embedded in Si based
Matrices for New-Generation Photodetector and Light-Emitter Applications.
Department of Science & Technology (DST) International Division [DST-RMES Indo-Russia], Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Outcome:  The  development  of  modern  optoelectronics,  high-speed  optical  communication  networks
demands integrated and packaged light sources and detectors. LEDs, lasers and photodetectors based on III-
nitride  semiconductors  show  excellent  technical  qualities,  but  their  integration  into  a  Si  electronics  is
associated with key technical difficulty such as large dislocation densities due to lattice mismatch and thermal
expansion coefficient mismatch. Possible ways to overcome these problems are creation of III-N and III-oxide
nanocrystals inside the Si, Si-based and other dielectric or semiconductor matrices by using ion implantation.
These nanocrystals in a wide-bandgap dielectric matrix can act as the sources of UV emission, as well as UV-
Start Date: 02 May 2015
End Date: 18 Apr 2019
(2)  Development of MEMS based gas sensors using RF sputtered transition metal doped ZnO Nanostructures
Rs. 24.17 Lakhs
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Outcome: Hydrogen is one of the most inflammable gases and have several potential applications. Due to low
ignition energy and broad explosive range of hydrogen, safety precaution is highly recommended. Nowadays,
Metal oxide based gas sensors are broadly used due to their good performance, low cost and compatibility
with electronic circuits. However, these sensors have some drawback like poor selectivity and high operating
temperature.  Thus,  it  is  highly  desirable  to  improve  the  sensing  properties  using  transition  metal  doping,
decoration of noble nanoparticles, addition of p-type material and inclusion of carbonaceous nanomaterials.
Start Date: 09 Sep 2015
End Date: 08 Sep 2018
(3)  Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering
Rs. 15 Lakhs
Indian National Science Academy
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Outcome:  The  continuous  upgradation  of  communication  system  from  radio  to  modern  4G  enabled  smart
phones seeks for highly efficient and miniaturized frequency agile components. Ferroelectric materials, due
to  their  inherent  spontaneous  electrical  polarizability  are  the  suitable  candidates  for  various  applications,
especially  for  tuning  purposes.  For  frequency  agile  components,  the  tunable  materials  should  possess  high
tunability with low dielectric loss. Ba0.5Sr0.5TiO3 (BST) is the most promising perovskite oxide and has been
extensively studied for RF and microwave applications.
Start Date: 01 Mar 2016
End Date: 31 Mar 2019
(4)  Algorithms for Blind Signal Detection and Demodulation
Rs. 55.24 Lakhs
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India, Rs. 55.24 Lakhs
End Date: 28 Jul 2018
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Outcome: Algorithm has been implemented and tested on real time signals. Any order of ASK, PSK and QAM
can  be  identified  from  the  developed  method  in  AWGN  channel.  This  algorithm  has  also  been  deployed  on
FPGA (PXIe 7975R). Algorithm is optimized in order to use less space on FPGA and achieves the result in 82
msec.  Different  thresholds  has  been  optimized  by  taking  many  signal  (around  1000)  each  different  symbol
length. Developed algorithm on labVIEW achieves reliable results above 12 dB SNR while FPGA requires a SNR
of 15 dB and above. Algorithm along with modulation type, estimates Symbol rate, carrier frequency offset,
and  symbol  timing  offset  as  well.  Developed  method  is  also  independent  to  any  phase  offset  and  work
without any requirement of training.
Start Date: 29 Jul 2015
Department of Physics
(5)  Probing the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in Neutrino Oscillations
Rs. 10.08 Lakhs
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee;
Co-PI: Ashutosh K. Alok
Outcome: The foundations of quantum mechanics are usually studied in optical or electronic systems. In such
systems,  the  interplay  between  the  various  measures  of  quantum  correlations  is  well  known.  Due  to  the
technical  advances  in  high  energy  physics  experiments,  such  as  the  short  and  long  baseline  neutrino
experiments, it will be fruitful to test the foundations of quantum mechanics in such systems. This is achieved
here in the context of neutrino oscillations.
Start Date: 01 Jan 2017
End Date: 31 Dec 2018
In 2018-19, our Faculty Members have filed 1 patent, published 143 research papers
and  articles  in  scholarly  journals.  30  of  their  works  have  been  covered  as  conference
proceedings; 22 preprints, 4 edited books and 10 book chapters have been contributed.
Patents & Publications
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Humanities & Social Sciences
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
The following is the department-wise list of patents filed.
Department of Chemistry
Sunlight driven H2 production by water splitting from nanocomposite heterostructures and preparation
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Application Number 201911008783 dated. 06 March 2019
The following is the department-wise list of publications.
Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Joshi, V., Upadhyay, A., Chhangani, D., Amanullah, A., Sharan, R. N., & Mishra, A. (2018). Gp78
involvement in cellular proliferation: Can act as a promising modulator for cell cycle regulatory proteins?
Journal of Cellular Physiology, 233(10), 6352-6368. ISSN: 1097-4652. https://doi.org/10.1002/jcp.26618
2.  Kanuri, B. N., Rebello, S. C., Pathak, P., Agarwal, H., Kanshana, J. S., Awasthi, D., Gupta, A. P., Gayen, J.
R., Jagavelu, K., &   Dikshit, M. (2018). Glucose and lipid metabolism alterations in liver and adipose
tissue pre-dispose p47phox knockout mice to systemic insulin resistance. Free Radical Research, 52(5), 568-
582. ISSN: 1071-5762. https://doi.org/10.1080/10715762.2018.1453136
3.  Mishra, R., Upadhyay, A., Prajapati, V. K., & Mishra, A. (2018). Proteasome-mediated proteostasis: Novel
medicinal and pharmacological strategies for diseases. Medicinal Research Reviews, 38(6), 1916-1973. ISSN:
4.  Narula, A., Pandey, R. K., Khatoon, N., Mishra, A., & Prajapati, V. K. (2018). Excavating chikungunya
genome to design B and T cell multi-epitope subunit vaccine using comprehensive immunoinformatics
approach to control chikungunya infection. Infection, Genetics and Evolution, 61, 4–15. ISSN: 1567-1348.
Paul, S., & Brahma, D. (2019). An Integrated Approach for Identification of Functionally Similar
MicroRNAs in Colorectal Cancer. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics,
16(1), 183–192. ISSN: 1557-9964. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCBB.2017.2765332
Sarkar, S., Gulati, K., Kairamkonda, M., Mishra, A., & Poluri, K. M. (2018). Elucidating protein-protein
interactions through computational approaches and designing small molecule inhibitors against them for
various diseases. Current Topics in Medicinal Chemistry, 18(20), 1719 - 1736. ISSN: 1568-0266.
Shahid, U., & Singh, P. (2018). Emerging Picture of Deuterosome-Dependent Centriole Amplification in
MCCs. Cells, 7(10), 152. ISSN: 2073-4409. https://doi.org/10.3390/cells7100152
Singh, S., & Jha, S. (2018). NLRs as Helpline in the Brain: Mechanisms and Therapeutic Implications.
Molecular Neurobiology, 55(10), 8154–8178. ISSN: 1559-1182. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12035-018-0957-4
9.  Upadhyay, A., & Mishra, A. (2018). Amyloids of multiple species: are they helpful in survival? Biological
Reviews, 93(3), 1363-1386. ISSN: 1469-185X. https://doi.org/10.1111/brv.12399
10.  Vijay, A., Arora, S., Gupta, S., & Chhabra, M. (2018). Halophilic starch degrading bacteria isolated from
Sambhar Lake, India, as potential anode catalyst in Microbial fuel cell: A promising process for saline
water treatment. Bioresource Technology, 256, 391-398. ISSN: 0960-8524.
11.  Sherine, J., Upadhyay, A., Mishra, A., Kumar, D., Pal, S., & Harinipriya, S. (2019). Ag(I) and Au(III)
Mercaptobenzothiazole complexes induced apoptotic cell death. Scientific Reports, 9(1), 621. ISSN: 2045-
12.  Vijay, A., Chhabra, M., & Vincent, T. (2019). Microbial community modulates electrochemical
performance and denitrification rate in a biocathodic autotrophic and heterotrophic denitrifying
microbial fuel cell. Bioresource Technology, 272, 217–225. ISSN: 0960-8524.
Paul, S., & Bansal, S. (2018). Type 2 Diabetes Gene Identification Using an Integrated Approach from
Single-Cell RNA Sequencing Data. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and
Biomedicine (BIBM) (pp. 2152–2158). Madrid, Spain: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-5488-0.
Joshi, V., Upadhyay, A., Amanullah, A., Mishra, R., & Mishra, A. (2019). Predicting E3 Ubiquitin Ligases
as Possible Promising Biomarkers for Brain Tumors. In K. K. Shukla, P. Sharma, & S. Misra (Eds.),
Molecular Diagnostics in Cancer Patients (pp. 43–72). Singapore: Springer Singapore. ISBN: 9789811358777.
Paul, S. (2019). Integration of miRNA and mRNA Expression Data for Understanding Etiology of
Gynecologic Cancers. In X. Lai, S. K. Gupta, & J. Vera (Eds.), Computational Biology of Non-Coding
RNA: Methods and Protocols (Vol. 1912, pp. 323–338). New York, NY: Humana Press. ISBN: 978-1-4939-
Department of Chemistry
Bahuguna, G., Ram, P., Sharma, R. K., & Gupta, R. (2018). An Organo-fluorine Compound Mixed
Electrolyte for Ultrafast Electric Double Layer Supercapacitors. ChemElectroChem, 5(19), 2767-2773.
ISSN: 2196-0216. https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201800908
Chaubey, B., & Pal, S. (2018). Binding Interaction of Organofluorine-Serum Albumin: A Comparative
Ligand Detected 19F NMR Analysis. The Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 122(40), 9409–9418. ISSN:
Dahiya, V., & Pal, S. (2018). The effect of paracetamol on 5 fluorouracil and bovine serum albumin
interaction: A biophysical study. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1953(1), 140012. ISSN: 0094-243X.
Gahlaut, A., & Paranjothy, M. (2018). Unimolecular decomposition of formamide via direct chemical
dynamics simulations. Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics, 13(20), 8498-8505. ISSN: 1463-9084.
Gupta, N., Rao, K. D. M., Srivastava, K., Gupta, R., Kumar, A., Marconnet, A. M., Fisher, T. S., &
Kulkarni, G. U. (2018). Cosmetically Adaptable Transparent Strain Sensor for Sensitively Delineating
Patterns in Small Movements of Vital Human Organs. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 10(50),
44126–44133. ISSN: 1944-8252. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b16282
Gupta, R. (2018). Fabrication of stretchable compliant electrodes on PDMS with Au nanoparticles.
Bulletin of Materials Science, 41(5), 114. ISSN: 0973-7669. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12034-018-1630-2
Joshi, A., Singh, R., & Kumar, A. (2018). Concurrence and three-tangle of the graph. Quantum
Information Processing, 17(12), 327. ISSN: 1573-1332. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11128-018-2085-5
Krishnan, Y., Rajbangshi, P., & Paranjothy, M. (2018). Theoretical Study of Perbenzoate Anion
Decomposition Pathways in the Gas Phase. International Journal of Mass Spectrometry, 428, 8-14. ISSN:
Kumar, D., & Pal, S. (2019). Solution dynamics of 5-fluorouracil entrapped in Poly Lactic-co-Glycolic
Acid (PLGA) microsphere - A study with 1D selective NMR methods. Magnetic Resonance in Chemistry,
52(2-3), 118-128. ISSN: 1097-458X. https://doi.org/10.1002/mrc.4799
Laishram, D., Shejale, K. P., Gupta, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). Solution Processed Hafnia
Nanoaggregates: Influence of Surface Oxygen on Catalytic Soot Oxidation. ACS Sustainable Chemistry &
Engineering, 6(9), 11286–11294. ISSN: 2168-0485. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.8b00674
Laishram, D., Shejale, K. P., Gupta, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). Heterostructured HfO2/TiO2 spherical
nanoparticles for visible photocatalytic water remediation. Materials Letters, 231, 225-228. ISSN: 0167-
Majumdar, D. J., Dey, S., Sreekumar, S. S., Das, S., Das, D., Metre, R. K., Bankura, K., & Mishra, D. (2018).
Nitrato, Pseudohalo-Linked Zn(II)/Cd(II) Schiff-Base Complexes with 1,3-Diimine Spacer Group:
Syntheses, Crystal Structures, DFT, TD-DFT and Fluorescence Studies. ChemistrySelect, 3(43), 12371–
12382. ISSN: 2365-6549. https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201802996
Murarka, S. (2018). N-(acyloxy)phthalimides as Redox-Active Esters in Cross Coupling Reactions.
Advanced Synthesis & Catalysis, 360(9), 1735-1753. ISSN: 1615-4169.
Murarka, S., & Antonchick, A. P. (2018). Metal-catalyzed oxidative coupling of ketones and ketone
enolatess. Synthesis, 50(11), 2150-2162. ISSN: 1437-210X. https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0037-1609715
Naz, E. G., Godara, S., & Paranjothy, M. (2018). Direct Chemical Dynamics Simulations of H3+ + CO
Bimolecular Reaction. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A, 122 (43), 8497–8504. ISSN: 1089-5639.
Nunes-Pereira, J., Lima, R., Choudhary, G., Sharma, P. R., Ferdov, S., Botelho, G., Sharma, R. K., &
Lanceros-Méndez, S. (2018). Highly efficient removal of fluoride from aqueous media through polymer
composite membranes. Separation and Purification Technology, 205, 1–10. ISSN: 1383-5866.
Nunes-Pereira, J., Sharma, P., Fernandes, L. C., Oliveira, J., Moreira, J. A., Sharma, R. K., & Lanceros-
Mendez, S. (2018). Poly(vinylidene fluoride) composites with carbon nanotubes decorated with metal
nanoparticles. Composites Part B: Engineering, 142, 1–8. ISSN: 1359-8368.
Rana, N. K., Shukla, K., Mahto, P., Jha, R. K., & Singh, V. K. (2018). A facile and highly diastereoselective
synthesis of carbocyclic spiro-pyrazolones via DABCO catalyzed Michael-Michael domino reaction.
Tetrahedron, 74(38), 5270-5279. ISSN: 0040-4020. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tet.2018.02.002
Kaur, H., & Kumar, A. (2019). Analyzing the efficiency of partially entangled states in Vaidman’s-type
games and its applications in Quantum Secret Sharing. International Journal of Computers and
Applications, 41 (1), 2–13. ISSN: 1206-212X. https://doi.org/10.1080/1206212X.2018.1465666
Pandey, M. D., Metre, R. K., Kundu, S., Mahanti, B., Kumar, A., Gopal, K., & Chandrasekhar, V. (2019).
Luminescent Pyrene-decorated Organotin Compounds: Observation of Monomer-and Excimer Emission.
Crystal Growth & Design, 19(3), 1888–1895. ISSN: 1528-7505. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.cgd.8b01856
Ram, P., Gören, A., Gonçalves, R., Choudhary, G., Ferdov, S., Silva, M. M., Singhal, R., Costa, C. M.,
Sharma, R. K., & Lanceros-Méndez, S. (2018). Improved electrochemical performance of rare earth doped
LiMn1.5-xNi0.5RExO4 based composite cathodes for lithium-ion batteries. Composites Part B: Engineering,
139, 55–63. ISSN: 1359-8368. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2017.11.054
Shejale, K. P., Laishram, D., Gupta, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). Engineered ZnO-TiO2 Nanospheres for
High Performing Membrane Assimilated Photocatalytic Water Remediation and Energy Harvesting.
ChemistrySelect, 3(25), 7291–7301. ISSN: 2365-6549. https://doi.org/10.1002/slct.201800988
Singh, P., & Kumar, A. (2018). Analysing Nonlocal Correlations in Three-qubit Partially Entangled States
Under Real Conditions. International Journal of Theoretical Physics, 57(10), 3172–3189. ISSN: 1572-9575.
Singh, P., & Kumar, A. (2018). Analysing nonlocality robustness in multiqubit systems under noisy
conditions and weak measurements. Quantum Information Processing, 17(9), 249. ISSN: 1573-1332.
Soni, V. K., Roy, T., Dhara, S., Choudhary, G., Sharma, P. R., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). On the investigation
of acid and surfactant modification of natural clay for photocatalytic water remediation. Journal of
Materials Science, 53(14), 10095–10110. ISSN: 1573-4803. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-018-2308-2
Urgunde, A. B., Kumar, A., Shejale, K. P., Sharma, R. K., & Gupta, R. (2018). Metal Wire Networks
functionalized with Ni Alkanethiolate for Transparent and Enzymeless Glucose Sensors. ACS Applied
Nano Materials, 1(10), 5571–5580. ISSN: 2574-0970. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.8b01115
Ram, P., Patel, H., Singhal, R., Choudhary, G., & Sharma, R. K. (2019). On the study of mixing and
drying on electrochemical performance of spinel LiMn2O4 cathodes. Journal of Renewable and
Sustainable Energy, 11(1), 014104. ISSN: 1941-7012. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5051583
Salian, S. R., Nayak, G., Kumari, S., Patel, S., Gowda, S., Shenoy, Y., Sugunan, S., GK, R., Managuli, R.,
Mutalik. S., Dahiya, V, Pal, S., Adiga, S. & K. Guruprasad (2019). Supplementation of biotin to sperm
preparation medium enhances fertilizing ability of spermatozoa and improves preimplantation embryo
development. Journal of Assisted Reproduction and Genetics, 36(2), 255-266. ISSN: 1573-7330.
Sharma, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2019). Electrophilic [N—F]+ catalysed asymmetric allylation of (E)-N,1-
diphenylmethanimine. Chirality, 31(2), 91–96. ISSN: 1520-636X. https://doi.org/10.1002/chir.23039
Shukla, K., Shah, S., Rana, N. K., & Singh, V. K. (2019). An efficient and highly diastereoselective
synthesis of carbocyclic spiropyrazolones via one-pot sequential dual organo-silver catalyzed Michael-
hydroalkylation reactions, 60(1), 92-97. Tetrahedron Letters. ISSN: 0040-4039.
Kaur, H., & Kumar, A. (2018). Analysing the role of entanglement in the three-qubit Vaidman’s game.
ArXiv:1807.05262 [Quant-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.05262
Srivastava, A., Karmakar, S., & Debnath, A. (2018). Slow Relaxations of Chemically Confined Hydration
Layers near Lipid Bilayers: Dynamical Heterogeneities above Supercooling. ArXiv:1808.03933 [Cond-
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Arkin, E. M., Banik, A., Carmi, P., Citovsky, G., Katz, M. J., Mitchell, J. S. B., & Simakov, M. (2018).
Selecting and covering colored points. Discrete Applied Mathematics, 250(2018), 75-86. ISSN: 0166-218X.
Banik, A., Panolan, F., Raman, V., & Sahlot, V. (2018). Fréchet distance between a line and avatar point
set. Algorithmica, 80(9), 2616-2636. ISSN: 1432-0541. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00453-017-0352-y
Khatua, M., Safavi, S. H., & Cheung, N. M. (2018). Sparse Laplacian Component Analysis for Internet
Traffic Anomalies Detection. IEEE Transactions on Signal and Information Processing over Networks, 4(4), 697
- 711. ISSN: 2373-776X. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSIPN.2018.2818950
Sharma, D., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2018). High-level feature aggregation for fine-grained architectural
floor plan retrieval. IET Computer Vision, 12(5), 702–709. ISSN: 1751-9640. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-
Arora, P., Banik, A., Paliwal, V. K., & Raman, V. (2018). Some (in) tractable parameterizations of coloring
and list-coloring. In Chen J., Lu P. (Eds.), Lecture Notes in Computer Science: Vol. 10823. FAW 2018:
Frontiers in Algorithmics (pp. 126–139). ISBN: 978-3-319-78455-7.
Banik, A., Choudhary, P., Lokshtanov, D., Raman, V., & Saurabh, S. (2018). A Polynomial Sized Kernel
for Tracking Paths Problem. In Bender M., Farach-Colton M., Mosteiro M. (eds) Lecture Notes in
Computer Science: Vol. 10807. LATIN 2018: Theoretical Informatics (pp. 94–107). ISBN: 978-3-319-77404-6.
Goyal, S., Chattopadhyay, C., & Bhatnagar, G. (2018). ASYSST: A framework for synopsis synthesis
empowering visually impaired. In Proceedings of the 2018 Workshop on Multimedia for Accessible
Human Computer Interface (pp. 17–24). Seoul, Republic of Korea: ACM. ISBN: 978-1-4503-5980-1.
Sharma, D., Gupta, N., Chattopadhyay, C., & Mehta, S. (2018). REXplore: A Sketch Based Interactive
Explorer for Real Estates Using Building Floor Plan Images. In 2018 IEEE International Symposium on
Multimedia (ISM) (pp. 61–64). Taichung, Taiwan: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-6857-3.
Sidhanta, S., Mukhopadhyay, S., & Golab, W. (2019). Consistify: Preserving Correctness and SLA Under
Weak Consistency. In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Distributed Computing and
Networking (pp. 282–291). New York, NY, USA: ACM. ISBN: 978-1-4503-6094-4.
Sundaram, S., & Harit, G. (Eds.). (2019). Document Analysis and Recognition: 4th Workshop, DAR 2018, Held
in Conjunction with ICVGIP 2018, Hyderabad, India, December 18, 2018, Revised Selected Papers. Springer
Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-13-9361-7. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9361-7
1.  Kalshetti, P., Rahangdale, P., Jangra, D., Bundele, M., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2018). Antara: An Interactive
3D Volume Rendering and Visualization Framework. ArXiv:1812.04233 [Cs].
2.  Kumar, A., Choudhary, S., Khokhar, V. S., Meena, V., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2018). Automatic Feature
Weight Determination using Indexing and Pseudo-Relevance Feedback for Multi-feature Content-Based
Image Retrieval. ArXiv:1812.04215 [Cs]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.04215
Department of Electrical Engineering
Agrawal, Abhay. V., Kumar, R., Venkatesan, S., Zakhidov, A., Yang, G., Bao, J., Kumar, M., & Kumar, M.
(2018). Photoactivated Mixed In-Plane and Edge-Enriched p-Type MoS2 Flake-Based NO2 Sensor
Working at Room Temperature. ACS Sensors, 3(5), 998–1004. ISSN: 2379-3694.
Ai, Y., Cheffena, M., Mathur, A., & Lei, H. (2018). On Physical Layer Security of Double Rayleigh Fading
Channels for Vehicular Communications. IEEE Wireless Communications Letters, 7(6), 1038 - 1041. ISSN:
Bhati, V. S., Ranwa, S., & Kumar, M. (2018). Highly sensitive H2 gas sensor of Co doped ZnO
nanostructures. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1942(1), 050059. ISSN: 0094-243X.
Bhati, V. S., Ranwa, S., Rajamani, S., Kumari, K., Raliya, R., Biswas, P., & Kumar, M. (2018). Improved
Sensitivity with Low Limit of Detection of a Hydrogen Gas Sensor Based on rGO-Loaded Ni-Doped ZnO
Nanostructures. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 10(13), 11116–11124. ISSN: 1944-8244.
Dahiya, S., & Singh, A. K. (2018). Channel estimation and channel tracking for massive MIMO system in
correlated block fading channel. Digital Communications and Networks, 4(2), 138-147. ISSN: 2352-8648.
Dahiya, S., Kumar, A., & Singh, A. K. (2018). Average power allocation based sum-rate optimization in
massive MIMO systems. Annals of Telecommunications, 73 (11–12), 689–701. ISSN: 1958-9395.
Gautam, A. R., Gaurav, K., Guerrero, J. M., & Fulwani, D. (2018). Ripple Mitigation with Improved Line-
Load Transients Response in Two-Stage DC-DC-AC Converter: Adaptive SMC Approach. IEEE
Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 65(4), 3125 - 3135. ISSN: 0278-0046.
Goel, N., Kumar, R., & Kumar, M. (2018). Enhanced sensing response with complete recovery of MoS2
sensor under photoexcitation. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1942(1), 050060. ISSN: 0094-243X.
Goel, N., Kumar, R., Hojamberdiev, M., & Kumar, M. (2018). Enhanced carrier density in a MoS₂/Si
heterojunction-based photodetector by inverse auger process. IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices,
65(10), 4149 - 4154. ISSN: 0018-9383. https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2018.2839913
10.    Goel, N., Kumar, R., Mishra, M., Gupta, G., & Kumar, M. (2018). Determination of band alignment at
two-dimensional MoS2/Si van der Waals heterojunction. Journal of Applied Physics, 123(22), 225301.
ISSN: 0021-8979. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5030557
11.    Goel, N., Kumar, R., Roul, B., Kumar, M., & Krupanidhi, S. B. (2018). Wafer-scale synthesis of a uniform
film of few-layer MoS2 on GaN for 2D heterojunction ultraviolet photodetector. Journal of Physics D:
Applied Physics, 51(37), 374003. ISSN: 0022-3727. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6463/aad4e8
12.    Jain, P. K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2018). A Robust Algorithm for Segmentation of Phonocardiography Signal
Using Tunable Quality Wavelet Transform. Journal of Medical and Biological Engineering, 38(3), 396–
410. ISSN: 2199-4757. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40846-017-0320-7
13.    Kumar, R., Goel, N., & Kumar, M. (2018). NO2 sensing at room temperature using vertically aligned
MoS2 flakes network. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1942(1), 060006. ISSN: 0094-243X.
14.    Kumar, R., Goel, N., Mishra, M., Gupta, G., Fanetti, M., Valant, M., & Kumar, M. (2018). Growth of
MoS2–MoO3 Hybrid Microflowers via Controlled Vapor Transport Process for Efficient Gas Sensing at
Room Temperature. Advanced Materials Interfaces. 5(10), 1800071. ISSN: 2196-7350.
15.    Kumar, R., Goel, N., Raliya, R., Biswas, P., & Kumar, M. (2018). High-performance photodetector based
on hybrid of MoS2 and reduced graphene oxide. Nanotechnology, 29(40), 404001. ISSN: 1361-6528.
16.    Kumar, R., Kulriya, P. K., Mishra, M., Singh, F., Gupta, G., & Kumar, M. (2018). Highly selective and
reversible NO2 gas sensor using vertically aligned MoS2 flake networks. Nanotechnology, 29(46), 464001.
ISSN: 0957-4484. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/aade20
17.    Kumari, C., Varun, I., Tiwari, S. P., & Dixit, A. (2018). Robust non-volatile bipolar resistive switching in
sol-gel derived BiFeO3 thin films. Superlattices and Microstructures, 120, 67-74. ISSN: 0749-6036.
18.    Mathur, A., Ai, Y., Bhatnagar, M. R., Cheffena, M., & Ohtsuki, T. (2018). On Physical Layer Security of α-
η-κ-μ Fading Channels. IEEE Communications Letters, 22(10), 2168 - 2171. ISSN: 1558-2558.
19.    Ai, Y., Mathur, A., Cheffena, M., Bhatnagar, M., & Lei, H. (2019). Physical Layer Security of Hybrid
Satellite-FSO Cooperative Systems. IEEE Photonics Journal, 11(1), 1-14. ISSN: 1943-0655.
20.    Bhati, V. S., Sheela, D., Roul, B., Raliya, R., Biswas, P., Kumar, M., Roy, M. S., Nanda, K. K., Krupanidhi,
S. B. & Kumar, M. (2019). NO2 gas sensing performance enhancement based on reduced graphene oxide
decorated V2O5 thin films. Nanotechnology, 30(22), 224001. ISSN: 0957-4484.
21.    Gangavarapu, S., Rathore, A. K., & Fulwani, D. M. (2019). Three phase single stage isolated cuk based
PFC converter. IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, 34(2), 1798 - 1808. ISSN: 0885-8993.
22.    Hojamberdiev, M., Zhu, G., Lu, H., Kumar, M., Wang, M., & Gao, J. (2019). MoS2 quantum dots-
modified porous β-Bi2O3 microspheres with enhanced visible-light-induced photocatalytic activity for
Bisphenol A degradation and NO removal. Journal of Materials Science: Materials in Electronics, 30(3),
2610-2621. ISSN: 1573-482X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10854-018-0536-5
23.    Joshi, V., Tiwari, S. P., & Shrivastava, M. (2019). Part I: Physical Insight Into Carbon-Doping-Induced
Delayed Avalanche Action in GaN Buffer in AlGaN/GaN HEMTs. IEEE Transactions on Electron
Devices, 66(1), 561 - 569. ISSN: 1557-9646. https://doi.org/10.1109/TED.2018.2878770
24.    Joshi, V., Tiwari, S. P., & Shrivastava, M. (2019). Part II: Proposals to Independently Engineer Donor and
Acceptor Trap Concentrations in GaN Buffer for Ultrahigh Breakdown AlGaN/GaN HEMTs. IEEE
Transactions on Electron Devices, 66(1), 570 - 577. ISSN: 1557-9646.
25.    Mahato, A. K., Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti, D., Varun, I., Prasad, N., Roy, M. S., & Tiwari, S. P. (2019). TIPS-
pentacene/Copper (II) phthalocyanine bi-layer photosensitive organic field-effect transistors. Synthetic
Metals, 248, 110–119. ISSN: 0379-6779. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.synthmet.2019.01.011
26.    Mathur, A., Bhatnagar, M. R., Ai, Y., & Cheffena, M. (2018). Performance Analysis of a Dual-Hop
Wireless-Power Line Mixed Cooperative System. IEEE Access, 6, 34380–34392. ISSN: 2169-3536.
27.    Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2018). Performance study of a fractal UWB MIMO antenna for on-
body WBAN applications. Analog Integrated Circuits and Signal Processing, 95(2), 249-258. ISSN: 1573-1979.
28.    Varun, I., Bharti, D., Mahato, A. K., Raghuwanshi, V., & Tiwari, S. P. (2018). Investigation of resistive
switching in PVP and ultra-thin HfOx based bilayer hybrid RRAM. Solid State Ionics, 325, 196–200. ISSN:
29.    Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti, D., Mahato, A. K., Varun, I., & Tiwari, S. P. (2019). Solution-Processed Organic
Field-Effect Transistors with High Performance and Stability on Paper Substrates. ACS Applied
Materials & Interfaces, 11(8), 8357–8364. ISSN: 1944-8244. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b21404
30.    Rahul, K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2018). Saliency enabled compression in JPEG framework. IET Image
Processing, 12(7), 1142–1149. ISSN: 1751-9659. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-ipr.2017.0554
31.    Rajamani, S., Arora, K., Belov, A., Korolev, D., Nikolskaya, A., Usov, Y., Pavlov, D., Mikhaylov, A.,
Tetelbaum, D., Kumar, M., & Kumar, M. (2018). Enhanced Solar-blind Photodetection Performance of
Encapsulated Ga2O3 Nanocrystals in Al2O3 Matrix. IEEE Sensors Journal, 18(10), 4046-4052. ISSN: 1530-
32.    Rajamani, Saravanan, Arora, K., Konakov, A., Belov, A., Korolev, D., Nikolskaya, A., Mikhaylov, A. N.,
Surodin, S., Kryukov, R., Nikolichev, D., Sushkov, A., Pavlov, D., Tetelbaum, D., Kumar, M., & Kumar,
M. (2018). Deep UV narrow-band photodetector based on ion beam synthesized indium oxide quantum
dots in Al2O3 matrix. Nanotechnology. 29(30), 305603. ISSN: 1361-6528. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-
33.    Rathore, B., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Wavelet-alienation based protection scheme for multi-terminal
transmission line. Electric Power Systems Research, 161, 8–16. ISSN: 0378-7796.
34.    Sarkar, A., Mukherjee, S., Sharma, A., Biswas, A., & Akhtar, M. J. (2018). SIW based quad-beam leaky-
wave antenna with polarization diversity for four quadrant scanning applications. IEEE Transactions on
Antennas and Propagation, 66(8), 3918 - 3925. ISSN: 0018-926X.
35.    Shaik, A. G., & Mahela, O. P. (2018). Power quality assessment and event detection in hybrid power
system. Electric Power Systems Research, 161, 26–44. ISSN: 0378-7796.
36.    Shinde, T. S., & Tiwari, A. K. (2018). Efficient direction-oriented search algorithm for block motion
estimation. IET Image Processing, 12(9), 1557–1566. ISSN: 1751-9667. https://doi.org/10.1049/iet-
37.    Singh, M., & Shaik, A. G. (2019). Faulty bearing detection, classification and location in a three-phase
induction motor based on Stockwell transform and support vector machine. Measurement, 131, 524–533.
ISSN: 0263-2241. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2018.09.013
38.    Tripathi, S., Upadhyay, A., Kotyan, S., & Yadav, S. (2019). Analysis and Comparison of Different Fuzzy
Inference Systems Used in Decision Making for Secondary Users in Cognitive Radio Network. Wireless
Personal Communications, 104(3), 1175–1208. ISSN: 1572-834X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11277-018-
Baghel, N., & Mukherjee, S. (2018). Design of a Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line Based 2x4 Slot
Antenna Array for Millimeter Wave Application. In 2018 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC)
(pp. 1561–1563). Kyoto, Japan: IEEE. ISBN: 978-4-902339-45-1.
Baghel, N., & Mukherjee, S. (2018). Design of Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line based Broadband Dipole
Antenna for Millimeter Wave Application. In 2018 IEEE Indian Conference on Antennas and Propogation
(InCAP) (pp. 1–4). Hyderabad, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-7060-6.
Bandaru, D. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Wind Farm Connected Distribution System Protection Using
Wavelet-Alienation Coefficient Technique. In 2018 3rd International Conference for Convergence in
Technology (I2CT) (pp. 1–6). Pune, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4273-3.
Bhatt, A., Syed, A., & Khandelwal, A. (2018). Designer Oriented Analysis of an All-Optical Binary Delta
Sigma Modulator. In 2018 Asia Communications and Photonics Conference (ACP) (pp. 1–3). Hangzhou,
China: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-6158-1. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACP.2018.8596001
Chawda, G. S., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Fuzzy Logic Based Control Algorithm for DSTATCOM Connected
to Weak AC Grid. In 2018 2nd International Conference on Power, Energy and Environment: Towards
Smart Technology (ICEPE) (pp. 1–6). Shillong, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4769-1.
Dhillon, D., & Chouhan, R. (2018). Noise-aided edge-preserving image denoising using non-local means
with stochastic resonance. In 2018 IEEE Global Conference on Signal and Information Processing
(GlobalSIP) (pp. 21–25). Anaheim, CA, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-72811-295-4.
Gangwar, A. K., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Wavelet Based Transmission Line Protection Scheme Using
Centroid Difference and Support Vector Regression. In 2018 7th International Conference on Renewable
Energy Research and Applications (ICRERA) (pp. 1184–1189). Paris, France: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-5982-
Gangwar, A. K., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Centroidal Difference of Wavelet Approximate Coefficients Based
Protection Scheme for Transmission Line. In 2018 2nd International Conference on Power, Energy and
Environment: Towards Smart Technology (ICEPE) (pp. 1–5). Shillong, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-
Gautam, A. R., Rathore, N., & Fulwani, D. (2018). Second-order Harmonic Ripple Mitigation: A Solution
for the Micro-Inverter Applications. In 2018 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting (IAS)
(pp. 1–6). Portland, OR, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4536-9. https://doi.org/10.1109/IAS.2018.8544687
10.    Jajoo, G., Yadav, Y. K., & Yadav, S. (2018). Blind Signal Digital Modulation Classification through k-
medoids Clustering. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Advanced Networks and
Telecommunications Systems (ANTS) (pp. 1–5). Indore, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-8134-3.
11.    Jangir, S., Choudhary, R., Rathore, B., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Transmission Line Fault Detection and
Classification Using Alienation Coefficient Technique for Current Signals. In 2018 3rd International
Conference for Convergence in Technology (I2CT) (pp. 1–6). Pune, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4273-3.
12.    Krishna, I. S., & Mukherjee, S. (2018). A Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line Dual-Band Balun for 5G
Applications. In 2018 Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC) (pp. 1190–1192). Kyoto, Japan: IEEE.
ISBN: 978-4-902339-45-1. https://doi.org/10.23919/APMC.2018.8617540
13.    Krishna, I. S., & Mukherjee, S. (2018). Design of Folded Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line Wideband
Balun for K-band Applications. In 2018 IEEE Indian Conference on Antennas and Propogation (InCAP) (pp.
1–4). Hyderabad, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-7060-6. https://doi.org/10.1109/INCAP.2018.8770732
14.    Rathore, B., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Fault Analysis Using Alienation Technique for Three-Terminal
Transmission Line. In 2018 2nd International Conference on Power, Energy and Environment: Towards
Smart Technology (ICEPE) (pp. 1–6). Shillong, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4769-1.
15.    Rathore, N., Gautam, A. R., & Fulwani, D. (2018). Adaptive Sliding mode based Loss Free resistor for
Power Factor Correction Application. In 2018 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting (IAS)
(pp. 1–6). Portland, OR, USA: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4536-9. https://doi.org/10.1109/IAS.2018.8544659
16.    Shah, J., Desai, S., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Detection and Classification of High Impedance Faults in
Transmission Line Using Alienation-based Analysis on Voltage Signals. In 2018 3rd International
Conference for Convergence in Technology (I2CT) (pp. 1–6). Pune, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4273-3.
17.    Singh, M., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Location of Defective Bearing in Three-Phase Induction Motor Using
Stockwell Transform and Support Vector Machine. In 2018 2nd International Conference on Power, Energy
and Environment: Towards Smart Technology (ICEPE) (pp. 1–5). Shillong, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-
18.    Chawda, G. S., & Shaik, A. G. (2019). Performance Evaluation of Adaline Controlled Dstatcom for
Multifarious Load in Weak AC Grid. In 2019 IEEE PES GTD Grand International Conference and Exposition
Asia (GTD Asia) (pp. 356–361). Bangkok, Thailand: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-7434-5.
19.    Mukherjee, S. (2019). Design of SIW based Millimeter wave Chipless Identification Tag for Low Cost
Application. In 2019 URSI Asia-Pacific Radio Science Conference (AP-RASC) (pp. 1–4). New Delhi, India:
IEEE. ISBN: 978-90-825987-5-9. https://doi.org/10.23919/URSIAP-RASC.2019.8738540
20.    Raghuwanshi, V., Mahato, A. K., Bharti, D., Varun, I., & Tiwari, S. P. (2019). Copper (II) Phthalocyanine
based Organic Field-Effect Transistors for UV Photo-detection. In 2019 Electron Devices Technology and
Manufacturing Conference (EDTM) (pp. 437–439). Singapore: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-6508-4.
21.    Singh, M., & Shaik, A. G. (2019). Broken Rotor Bar Fault Diagnosis of a Three-phase Induction Motor
using Discrete Wavelet Transform. In 2019 IEEE PES GTD Grand International Conference and Exposition
Asia (GTD Asia) (pp. 13–17). Bangkok, Thailand: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-7434-5.
1.  Mazumdar, S., Singh, A., Dutta, S., Yadav, S. K., & Guha, P. (2019). From Sharma-Mittal to von-
Neumann Entropy of a Graph. https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.07548v1
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
1.  Chaudhuri, M., & Thimm, V. (2018). Postcolonial Intersections: Asia on the Move. Transfers:
Interdisciplinary Journal of Mobility Studies, 8(3), 28–35. ISSN: 2045-4813, 2045-4821.
2.  Mahler, S. J., Cogua-López, J., & Chaudhuri, M. (2018). Expressing similarities and differences: Latin@
voices from metropolitan Miami. Latino Studies, 16(1), 21–42. ISSN: 1476-3443.
3.  Maidullah, S., & Sharma, A. (2019). Gender difference in information processing limit during online
decision making. Journal of Management Research and Analysis, 6(1), 14–23. ISSN: 2394-2770.
4.  Narayanan V, H. (2018). Freedom, responsibility and jurisprudence. Balkan Journal of Philosophy, 10(1),
55–62. ISSN: 2367-5438. https://doi.org/10.5840/bjp20181017
Sharma, A., & Dewangan, R. L. (2018). Indian socio-cultural conception of wisdom: does it follow
universal understanding? Journal of Psychology and Behavioral Science, 6(1), 5-19. ISSN: 2374-2399.
Slovic, S, Rangarajan, S., & Sarveswaran, V. (Eds.). (2019). Routledge Handbook of Ecocriticism and
Environmental Communication. Routledge. ISBN: 978-1-351-68270-1.
1.  Chaudhuri, M., Thimm, V., & Mahler, S. J. (2019). Scaling Educational Policy and Practice
Intersectionally: Historical and Contemporary Cases from South and Southeast Asia. In O. Hankivsky &
J. S. Jordan-Zachery (Eds.), The Palgrave Handbook of Intersectionality in Public Policy (pp. 367–385).
Cham: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN: 978-3-319-98473-5. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-98473-5_16
Department of Mathematics
Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2018). Bandwidth enhancement of Salisbury screen microwave
absorber using wire metamaterial. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 60(4), 891–897. ISSN: 0895-
Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2018). Bandwidth enhancement of triple layer microwave
absorber using metallic square patch. Applied Physics A, 124(12), 798. ISSN: 1432-0630.
Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2018). Design and Characterization of Square Patch Salisbury
Screen Microwave Absorber. Progress In Electromagnetics Research Letters, 76, 7–12. ISSN: 1937-6480.
Bhatnagar, G., & Wu, Q. M. J. (2019). Fractal dimension based framework for night vision fusion.
IEEE/CAA Journal of Automatica Sinica, 6(1), 220 - 227. ISSN: 2329-9266.
Choudhary, S., & Hiremath, K. R. (2018). Experimental studies of absorption bandwidth enhancement in
random metamaterials. Applied Physics A, 124(12), 829. ISSN: 1432-0630.
Liu, Z., Blasch, E., Bhatnagar, G., John, V., Wu, W., & Blum, R. S. (2018). Fusing synergistic information
from multi-sensor images: An overview from implementation to performance assessment. Information
Fusion, 42(Supplement C), 127–145. ISSN: 1566-2535. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2017.10.010
Sahu, A., Hiremath, K., & Dixit, A. (2018). Limiting efficiency factors and their consequences on
quantum dot sensitized solar cells: a detailed balance study. Applied Physics A, 124(8), 541. ISSN: 1432-
Sahu, A., Tirosh, S., Hiremath, K. R., Zaban, A., & Dixit, A. (2018). A novel process for sensitization and
infiltration of quantum dots in mesoporous metal oxide matrix for efficient solar photovoltaics response.
Solar Energy, 169, 488–497. ISSN: 0038-092X. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2018.04.058
Sharma, P., & Raghav, M. (2018). Dynamics of Non-Autonomous Discrete Dynamical Systems. Topology
Proceedings, 52, 45–59. ISSN: 2331-1290. http://topology.auburn.edu/tp/reprints/v52/tp52004p1.pdf
10.    Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2018). A new robust watermarking system in integer DCT domain. Journal
of Visual Communication and Image Representation, 53, 86–101. ISSN: 1047-3203.
Raghav, M., & Sharma, P. (2018). Dynamics of Finitely Generated Non-Autonomous Systems.
ArXiv:1810.01167 [Math]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.01167
Singh, R., Vijay, V., & Bapat, R. B. (2018). Algorithm for B-partitions, parameterized complexity of the
matrix determinant and permanent.  https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04670
Sharma, P., & Kumar, D. (2019). Multidimensional Shifts and Finite Matrices. ArXiv:1901.07533 [Math].
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Gupta, S., Satankar, R. K., Kaurwar, A., Aravind, U., Sharif, M., & Plappally, A. (2018). Household
production of ceramic water filters in Western Rajasthan, India. International Journal for Service
Learning in Engineering, Humanitarian Engineering and Social Entrepreneurship, 13(1), 53–66. ISSN:
Jain, A., Sharma, A., Borana, S. L., Ravindra, B., & Mangalhara, J. P. (2018). Study and Analysis of
Exhaust Emission of Diesel Vehicles using Thermal IR Imagers. Defence Science Journal, 68(6), 533–539.
ISSN: 0976464X. https://doi.org/10.14429/dsj.68.12701
Joshi, R., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Design and development of SiO2-Al2O3-B2O3-Na2O based glass sealant
for the glass-metal joint. Ceramics International, 44(16), 19084-19098. ISSN: 0272-8842.
Joshi, R., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Effect of SiO2/B2O3 ratio on the thermophysical and wetting properties
of borosilicate glass sealant for glass-metal joint. Journal of Materials Processing Technology, 259, 186–194.
ISSN: 0924-0136. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmatprotec.2018.04.028
Joshi, R., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Failure study of compression glass-metal joint for parabolic trough
receiver tube application. Materials Today: Proceedings, 5(7, Part 1), 14847–14851. ISSN: 2214-7853.
Joshi, R., & Chhibber, R. (2018). High Temperature Wettability Studies for Development of Unmatched
Glass-Metal Joints in Solar Receiver Tube. Renewable Energy, 119, 282-289. ISSN: 0960-1481.
Moges, T. M., Desai, K. A., & Rao, P. V. M. (2018). Modeling of cutting force, tool deflection, and surface
error in micro-milling operation. The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,
98(9–12), 2865–2881. ISSN: 1433-3015. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00170-018-2415-x
Monde, A. D., & Chakraborty, P. R. (2018). Prediction of Cooling Curves for Controlled Unidirectional
Solidification under the Influence of Shrinkage: A Semi-analytical Approach. Metallurgical and Materials
Transactions B, 49 (6), 3306-3316. ISSN: 1543-1916. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11663-018-1420-7
Prasanth, C., Harsha, C. S., & Pratiher, B. (2018). Electrostatic pull-in analysis of a nonuniform micro-
resonator undergoing large elastic deflection. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part C:
Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science, 212(18), 3337-3350. ISSN: 0954-4062.
10.    Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Mechanical properties and hydrogen induced cracking behaviour of
API X70 SAW weldments. International Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping, 165, 193-207. ISSN: 0308-
11.    Sharma, L., & Chhibber, R. (2019). Effect of Heat Treatment on Mechanical Properties and Corrosion
Behaviour of API X70 Linepipe Steel in Different Environments. Transactions of the Indian Institute of
Metals, 72(1), 93-110. ISSN: 0975-1645. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12666-018-1465-y
12.    Verma, V. K., Tripathi, B., Rana, K. B., & Chhibber, R. (2018). Factors Affecting the Performance of
Glass–Metal Seal of Solar Receiver Tubes: A Review. International Journal of Applied Engineering
Research, 13(8), 12. ISSN: 0973-9769. http://www.ripublication.com/ijaerspl2018/ijaerv13n8spl_18.pdf
Sakthivel, T., & Venkatesan, C. (2018). Estimation of handling quality parameters of a rotorcraft using
open-loop linearized and nonlinear flight dynamic models (Vol. 2, pp. 867–879). Presented at the 44th
European Rotorcraft Forum 2018, ERF 2018, Delft, Netherlands: Netherlands Association of Aeronautical
Engineers. ISBN: 978-1-5108-7964-5.
Raina, D., Gora, S., & Shah, S. V. (2019). Modeling and Estimation of Closed-Loop Impact for Multi-arm
Space Robot While Capturing a Tumbling Orbiting Object. In D. N. Badodkar & T. A. Dwarakanath
(Eds.), Machines, Mechanism and Robotics (pp. 561–570). Springer, Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-8597-0.
Shastry, S., Avaneesh, R., Desai, K. A., & Shah, S. V. (2018). Optimal Design of a Stewart–Gough
Platform for Multidirectional 3-D Printing. In S. S. Pande & U. S. Dixit (Eds.), Precision Product-Process
Design and Optimization (pp. 1–29). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-8767-7.
Tyagi, H., Agarwal, A. K., Chakraborty, P. R., & Powar, S. (2018). Introduction to Applications of Solar
Energy. In H. Tyagi, A. K. Agarwal, P. R. Chakraborty, & S. Powar (Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy (pp.
3–10). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 9789811333026. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-3302-6_1
4.  Monde, A. D., Shrivastava, A., & Chakraborty, P. R. (2018). Solar Thermal Energy Storage. In H. Tyagi,
A. K. Agarwal, P. R. Chakraborty, & S. Powar (Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy (pp. 131–162). Singapore:
Springer. ISBN: 9789811333026. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7206-2_8
5.  Verma, A., Satish, & Chakraborty, P. R. (2018). Water–Lithium Bromide Absorption Chillers for Solar
Cooling. In H. Tyagi, A. K. Agarwal, P. R. Chakraborty, & S. Powar (Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy
(pp. 209–232). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 9789811333026. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7206-2_11
Tyagi, H., Agarwal, A. K., Chakraborty, P. R. & Powar, S. (2018). Energy, Environment, and Sustainability
(ENENSU): Applications of Solar Energy. Singapore: Springer Nature Singapore Pte. Ltd. ISBN: 978-981-10-
1.  Naveen,  B.,  Shah,  S.  V.,  &  Misra,  A.  K.  (2018).  Momentum  Model-based  Minimal  Parameter
Identification of a Space Robot. ArXiv:1809.00367 [Cs]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.00367
2.  Ravindra,  B.
(2018).  Forecasting  solar  radiation  during  dust  storms  using  deep
ArXiv:1808.10854 [Physics]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.10854
Tallamraju,  R.,  Salunkhe,  D.  H.,  Rajappa,  S.,  Ahmad,  A.,  Karlapalem,  K.,  &  Shah,  S.  V.  (2019).  Motion
for  Multi-Mobile-Manipulator  Payload  Transport  Systems.  ArXiv:1903.07758
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Chougule, S., Sheed, D., Prabhu, N., Kashyap, B. P., Jha, K., & Singh, R. K. P. (2018). Multipass-friction
Stir Processing (MFSP) of Ti-6Al-4V Alloy and Investigation of Flow Properties. IOP Conference Series:
Materials Science and Engineering, 422, 012017. ISSN: 1757-899X. https://doi.org/10.1088/1757-
Dilip Chandra Kumar, G., Anil Kumar, V., Gupta, R. K., Narayana Murty, S. V. S., & Kashyap, B. P.
(2019). Effect of Strain Rate and Temperature on the Tensile Flow Behavior and Microstructure Evolution
in Fe-0.3 Pct C-CrMoV Grade Steel. Metallurgical and Materials Transactions A, 50(1), 161–178. ISSN: 1543-
Jagadeesh Babu, S. M., Narayana Murty, S. V. S., Prabhu, N., Kapoor, R., Singh, R. N., & Kashyap, B. P.
(2019). Effects of Temporary Alloying and Severe Plastic Deformation on Microstructure Evolution and
Mechanical Properties of Ti-Alloys: A Comparative Study. Transactions of the Indian Institute of Metals.
ISSN: 0975-1645. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12666-019-01594-3
Kashyap, B. P. (2018). Understanding the Concurrent Microstructural Evolution and Its Impact on
Superplastic Characteristics: An overview. Letters on Materials, 8(4s), 524–531. ISSN: 2218-5046.
Sekhar, K. C., Kashyap, B. P., Kumar, M. S., & Sangal, S. (2018). Strengthening of Thin Sheet Metals for
Advanced Structural Applications by Various Notch Wavy Rolling Techniques. Materials Today:
Proceedings, 5(9, Part 1), 16871–16879. ISSN: 2214-7853. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matpr.2018.04.089
Sharma, B., Singh, A., Sarma, T. K., Sardana, N., & Pal, A. (2018). Chirality control to multi-stimuli
responsive and self-healing supramolecular metallo-hydrogels. New Journal of Chemistry, 42(8), 6427-6432.
ISSN: 1369-9261. https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NJ00218E
Sharma, R. K., Bind, A. K., Avinash, G., Singh, R. N., Tewari, A., & Kashyap, B. P. (2018). Effect of radial
hydride fraction on fracture toughness of CWSR Zr-2.5%Nb pressure tube material between ambient and
300 °C temperatures. Journal of Nuclear Materials, 508, 546-555. ISSN: 0022-3115.
Sharma, R. K., Tewari, A., Singh, R. N., & Kashyap, B. P. (2018). Optimum shape and orientation of δ-
hydride precipitate in α-zirconium matrix for different temperatures. Journal of Alloys and Compounds,
742, 804–813. ISSN: 0925-8388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.12.085
Sharma, S., Kumar, B. R., Kashyap, B. P., & Prabhu, N. (2018). Effects of concurrent strain induced
martensite formation on tensile and texture properties of 304L stainless steel of varying grain size
distribution. Materials Science and Engineering: A. 725, 215-227ISSN: 0921-5093.
10.    Sharma, S., Ravi Kumar, B., Kashyap, B. P., & Prabhu, N. (2018). Effect of stored strain energy
heterogeneity on microstructure evolution of 90% cold rolled AISI 304L stainless steel during interrupted
annealing treatment. Materials Characterization, 140, 72–85. ISSN: 1044-5803.
11.    Bhattacharyya, A., & Maurice, D. (2019). Residual stresses in functionally graded thermal barrier
coatings. Mechanics of Materials, 129, 50–56. ISSN: 0167-6636.
Jagadeesh Babu, S. M., Narayana Murty, S. V. S., Prabhu, N., & Kashyap, B. P. (2018). Effect of caliber
rolling temperature on room and elevated temperature tensile properties of Ti-6Al-4V alloy (pp. 670–
679). Presented at the Materials Science and Technology 2018, MS and T 2018, Columbus, USA:
Association for Iron and Steel Technology. ISBN: 978-0-87339-768-1.
Department of Physics
Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumar, J., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2018). New physics solutions for RD
and RD∗. Journal of High Energy Physics, 2018(9), 152. ISSN: 1029-8479.
Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2018). Resolution of RD/RD⁎ puzzle. Physics
Letters B, 784(10), 16-20. ISSN: 0370-2693. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2018.07.001
Arumugam, S., Sivaprakash, P., Dixit, A., Chaurasiya, R., Govindaraj, L., Sathiskumar, M., Chatterjee, S.
& Suryanarayanan, R. (2019). Complex magnetic structure and magnetocapacitance response in a non-
oxide NiF 2 system. Scientific Reports, 9(1), 3200. ISSN: 2045-2322. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-
Dixit, K., Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Kumar, D. (2018). Geometric phase and neutrino mass hierarchy
problem. Journal of Physics G: Nuclear and Particle Physics, 45(8), 085002. ISSN: 1361-6471.
Dixit, K., Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., & Alok, A. K. (2018). Quantum correlations and the neutrino mass
degeneracy problem. The European Physical Journal C, 78(11), 914. ISSN: 1434-6052.
Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., & Banerjee, S. (2019). Condition for zero and nonzero discord in graph Laplacian
quantum states. International Journal of Quantum Information, 17(02), 1950018. ISSN: 0219-7499.
Ghosh, S. (2018). Signature of phase singularities in diffusive regimes in disordered waveguide lattices:
interplay and qualitative analysis. Applied Optics, 57(14), 3669–3673. ISSN: 2155-3165.
Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2018). Theoretical studies of single and tandem Cu2ZnSn(S/Se)4 junction solar
cells for enhanced efficiency. Optical Materials, 82, 11–20. ISSN: 0925-3467.
Kumar, N. P., Banerjee, S., & Chandrashekar, C. M. (2018). Enhanced non-Markovian behavior in
quantum walks with Markovian disorder. Scientific Reports, 8(1), 8801. ISSN: 2045-2322.
10.    Kumar, N. P., Banerjee, S., Srikanth, R., Jagadish, V., & Petruccione, F. (2018). Non-Markovian Evolution:
a Quantum Walk Perspective. Open Systems & Information Dynamics, 25(03), 1850014. ISSN: 1230-1612.
11.    Naikoo, J., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Entropic Leggett–Garg inequality in neutrinos and B(K) meson systems.
The European Physical Journal C, 78(7), 602. ISSN: 1434-6052. https://doi.org/10.1140/epjc/s10052-018-
12.    Naikoo, J., Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Probing nonclassicality in an optically driven
cavity with two atomic ensembles. Physical Review A, 97(6), 063840. ISSN: 2469-9934.
13.    Oberoi, D., Dagar, P., Shankar, U., Vyas, G., Kori, A., Sahu, S., & Bandyopadhyay, A. (2018). Design,
synthesis, and characterization of Fe(ii)-polymer of redox non-innocent, heteroatomic, polydentate
schiff’s base ligand: negative differential resistance and memory behaviour. New Journal of Chemistry,
42 (23), 19090-19100. ISSN: 1369-9261. https://doi.org/10.1039/C8NJ04106G
14.    Sahu, A., & Dixit, A. (2018). Design criteria of transition metal dopants in TiO2/CdS photoelectrode for
enhanced photovoltaic response. Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids, 122, 154–161. ISSN: 0022-
15.    Sharma, V., Shrikant, U., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Decoherence can help quantum
cryptographic security. Quantum Information Processing, 17(8), 207. ISSN: 1573-1332.
16.    Shrikant, U., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Non-Markovian dephasing and depolarizing channels.
Physical Review A, 98(3), 032328. ISSN: 2469-9934. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.98.032328
17.    Thomas, G., Siddharth, N., Banerjee, S., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Thermodynamics of non-Markovian
reservoirs and heat engines. Physical Review E, 97(6), 062108. ISSN: 2470-0053.
18.    Verma, R. N., Kumar, R., Dixit, A., & Chandra, L. (2018). A low temperature water-cooled radiation
calorimeter for estimation of concentrated solar irradiance. Solar Energy, 167, 194–209. ISSN: 0038-092X.
19.    Vyas, G., Dagar, P., & Sahu, S. (2018). Exponential increase in the on–off ratio of conductance in organic
memory devices by controlling the surface morphology of the devices. Applied Physics A, 124(5), 369.
ISSN: 1432-0630. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00339-018-1791-2
20.    Chaurasiya, R., & Dixit, A. (2019). Point defects induced magnetism in CdO monolayer: A theoretical
study. Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, 469, 279–288. ISSN: 0304-8853.
21.    Chaurasiya, R., Dixit, A., & Pandey, R. (2019). Strain-driven thermodynamic stability and electronic
transitions in ZnX (X = O, S, Se, and Te) monolayers. Journal of Applied Physics, 125(8), 082540. ISSN:
Biswas, P., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Pulse Reshaping and Stable Propagation through a Chirped-clad
Dispersion Oscillating Bragg Fiber. In Advanced Photonics 2018 (BGPP, IPR, NP, NOMA, Sensors,
Networks, SPPCom, SOF) (2018), paper JTh4A.3 (p. JTh4A.3). Zurich Switzerland: Optical Society of
America. ISBN: 978-1-943580-43-9. https://doi.org/10.1364/BGPPM.2018.JTh4A.3
Singh, G., Kumar, R., Dixit, A., & Chandra, L. (2018). Thermal and Materials Perspective on the Design of
Open Volumetric Air Receiver for Process Heat Applications. In H. Tyagi, A. K. Agarwal, P. R.
Chakraborty, & S. Powar (Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy (pp. 113–127). Singapore: Springer. ISBN:
Bazil Raj, A. A., Sharma, V., & Banerjee, S. (2019). Quantum Based Satellite Free Space Optical
Communication and Microwave Photonics. In Arun K. Majumdar, Zabih Ghassemlooy & A. Arockia
Bazil Raj (Eds.), Principles and Applications of Free Space Optical Communications (pp. 0-0). IET, UK.
ISBN: 978-1-78561-415-6. https://www.theiet.org/resources/books/telecom/free-space.cfm
Banerjee, S. (2018). Open Quantum Systems: Dynamics of Nonclassical Evolution. Singapore: Springer.
ISBN: 978-981-13-3182-4. https://doi.org/ 10.1007/978-981-13-3182-4
Abbas, G., Alok, A. K., & Gangal, S. (2018). New physics effects in radiative leptonic Bs decay.
ArXiv:1805.02265 [Hep-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.02265
Bhattacherjee, S., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Origin of third order exceptional singularities and its
signature in successive state conversion. ArXiv:1806.10795 [Physics]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.10795
Bhattacherjee, S., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Realization of third order exceptional singularities in a
three level non-hermitian system: towards cascaded state conversion. ArXiv:1805.06505 [Quant-Ph].
Biswas, P., Gandhi, H. K., Mishra, V., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Propagation and asymmetric behavior of
optical pulses through time-dynamic loss-gain assisted media. ArXiv:1806.05608 [Physics].
Chaurasiya, R., & Dixit, A. (2018). MoSSe Janus monolayer as a promising two dimensional material for
NO2 and NO gas sensor applications. ArXiv:1812.08547 [Cond-Mat]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.08547
Laha, A., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Non-adiabatic Modal Dynamics around Exceptional Points in
an All-Lossy Dual-Mode Optical Waveguide: Towards Chirality Driven Asymmetric Mode-Conversion.
Malpani, P., Alam, N., Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., Narayanan, V., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Lower- and
higher-order nonclassical properties of photon added and subtracted displaced Fock states.
ArXiv:1808.01458 [Quant-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1808.01458
Naikoo, J., Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2019). Leggett-Garg inequality in the context of
three flavour neutrino oscillation. ArXiv:1901.10859 [Hep-Ph, Physics:Quant-Ph].
Naikoo, J., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2018). Leggett-Garg inequality violation under non-Markovian
noise. ArXiv:1806.00537 [Quant-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.00537
10.    Sahu, A., & Dixit, A. (2018). Inverted structure perovskite solar cells: a theoretical study.
ArXiv:1806.03950 [Physics]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1806.03950
11.    Sharma, V., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Analysis of Quantum Key Distribution based Satellite Communication.
ArXiv:1807.07544 [Quant-Ph].  http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.07544
The following is the department-wise list of Invited Talks.
Department of Electrical Engineering
Aashish Mathur delivered an invited talk on “Free Space Optical Communications and its applications
to 5G” in 1st International Conference on 5G Communication and Applications at VFSTR, Vadlamudi,
AP, India on 6 December 2018.
Soumava  Mukherjee  delivered  an  invited  talk  on  “Aperture  Antennas”  at  IIT  Guwahati  in  Faculty
Development Programme on “Antenna Trends” on 02 July 2019.
Mahesh Kumar delivered the following invited talks.
"Heavy metal ion detection using AlGaN/GaN HEMTs as sensor" at Institute of Physics, Lobachewsky
University Nizhny Novgorod on 21 March 2019.
"Enhanced  NO2  Sensing  Performance  of  Vertically  Aligned  MoS2  via  a  Synergistic  Vacancy  and
Interface Engineering" at PSCES 2019, IIT Delhi during 6-8 March 2019.
"Multifunctional  High-Performance  MoS2/GaN  Heterojunction:  The  Futuristic  Optical  and  Gas
Sensors" at The 30th AGM of MRSI and the First Indian Materials Conclave at IISc Bangalore from 12-
15, February 2019.
"2D MoS2 based ultrafast and reversible room temperature NO2 Sensor" Workshop on Recent Trends
in Transducers and Actuators (RTTA-2019) at CEERI Pilani on 21 January 2019.
"Opportunities  and  Risks  of  Digitalization  for  Climate  Change  Mitigation/Adaptation  and  Research
Security  in  the  MENA  Region"  at  KAS  -  REMENA  Experts'  Meeting  in  Rabat  Morocco  during  19-21
"Development  of  highly  selective  and  sensitive  NO2  Sensor  using  2D  materials"  at  International
Conference on Nano-Structured Materials and Devices (ICNSMD-2018), University of Delhi during 17-
20, December 2018.
"MoS2  Functionalized  with  rGO  Particles  for  Efficient  Room  Temperature  NO2  Sensor"  at  the  3rd
International Conference on Soft Materials (ICSM 2018) at MNIT Jaipur during 9-14 December 2018.
"2D MoS2 based ultrafast and reversible gas Sensors" at 1st Indian National Young Academy of Science
-  Frontiers  of  Science  (INYAS-FoS)  Brainstorming  Meeting  at  Pragati  Resorts  Hyderabad  during  9-12
"Science Advice for a Changing World" at Tokyo Japan during 6-7 November 2018.
"Nanomaterials  based  Energy  efficient  Gas  Sensor"  at  Advanced  Materials  for  Energy  and
Environmental  Applications  at  Uzbekistan-Japan  Innovation  Center  of  Youth,  National  University  of
Uzbekistan Tashkent during Oct 15-20 October 2018.
13.  At IAP/AASSA Regional Workshop on the SDGs at Kuala Lumpur Malaysia during 13-14 August 2018.
"Energy efficient nano-devices for the better and sustainable society" at 8th International Conference of
Young Scientists & Annual General Meeting 2018 of the Global Young Academy, in Pattaya, Thailand,
during 7-11 May 2018.
"Self-aligned ZnO nanorods for energy efficient hydrogen sensor" at 1st TYAN International Thematic
Workshop  on  "Fundamentals  of  Photoelectrochemistry:  From  Materials  Chemistry  to  Energy
Conversion" in Chascomus, Argentina during 23-27 April 2018.
Rajlaxmi Chouhan delivered invited lectures on Basic Electronics (August 2018) and Signals & Systems
(April 2019) for B.Tech. students at JIET College of Engineering, Jodhpur.
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Ankita Sharma delivered an Invited talk and served as a panelist in Pan-Asian Symposium on Morality,
Character and Wisdom, 2019 at the Hilton Colombo in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
Ankita Sharma delivered an Invited talk on “Wisdom and decision making: Role of life experiences and
leadership position” at the 1st Indian Congress of Industrial and Organizational Psychology, University
of Rajasthan, Jaipur.
The following is the department-wise list of Conference Presentations.
Department of Electrical Engineering
1.  Ajay Kumar Mahato, Vivek Raghuwanshi, Deepak Bharti, Ishan Varun, Narottam Prasad, Mahesh Saran
Roy,  and  Shree  Prakash  Tiwari,  “Gate  Dielectric  Dependence  of  Electrical  and  Photo-Response
Behaviour in Copper (II) Phthalocyanine Based Organic Field-Effect Transistors,” 4th IEEE International
Conference on Emerging Electronics (ICEE 2018), December 16-19, 2018, Bangalore, India
I. S. Krishna, S. Mukherjee, "Design of Dual-Mode Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) Cavity Filter
for Millimeter-wave Applications", Presented in 2018 International Microwave & RF conference, Kolkata,
Ishan  Varun,  Deepak  Bharti,  Ajay  Kumar  Mahato,  Vivek  Raghuwanshi,  and  Shree  Prakash  Tiwari,
“Effect  Effect  of  Annealing  on  Resistive  Switching  Behavior  of  PMMA  Based  RRAM,”  4th  IEEE
International Conference on Emerging Electronics (ICEE 2018), December 16-19, 2018, Bangalore, India.
4.  S. Mukherjee and A. Biswas, Design of Eliptical SIW Cavity Backed High Gain Slot Antenna, Presented
in 2018 IEEE-INAE Workshop on Electromagnetics, Trivandrum, 2018.
5.  Vivek  Raghuwanshi,  Deepak  Bharti,  Ajay  Kumar  Mahato,  Ishan  Varun,  and  Shree  Prakash  Tiwari,
“Effect  of  TIPS-Pentacene:Polystyrene  Blend  Ratio  on  Electrical  Performance  and  Stability  of  Solution
Processed Organic Field-Effect Transistors,” 4th IEEE International Conference on Emerging Electronics
(ICEE 2018), December 16-19, 2018, Bangalore, India.
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
1.  Mayurakshi  Chaudhuri  presented  a  research  paper  titled  "Digitised  Swasthya:  Technology  and
Healthcare  As  Sociotechnical  Ensembles  in  Rajasthan,  India,"  at  the  XIX  ISA  World  Congress  of
Sociology organized by the International Sociological Association, in Toronto, Canada, 15-21 July 2018.
Department of Mathematics
1.  S. P. Singh and G. Bhatnagar “A Reference Based Secure and Robust Zerowatermarking Scheme” Proc.
Int. Conf. Computer Vision & Image Processing, IIITDM Jabalpur, India, September 29-October 01, 2018.
2.  S.  P.  Singh  and  G.  Bhatnagar,  “A  Robust  Watermarking  Scheme  for  Copyright  Protection”  Proc.  Int.
Conf. Computer Vision & Image Processing, IIITDM Jabalpur, India, September 29-October 01, 2018.
Awards & Recognitions
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Amit Mishra, Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, awarded eminent Shri
Om  Prakash  Sharma  Award,  India  by  Indian  Academy  of  Biomedical  Sciences  (IABS)  India  for
outstanding contributions in Biomedical Research.
Amit Mishra, Assistant Professor, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, selected  for Shankunta
Amir  Chand  Prize  by  Indian  Council  of  Medical  Research  (ICMR)  Human  Resource  Development
(HRD)-Health Research Ministry.  The ICMR awards recognize  the  contributions  of Indian biomedical
scientists  undertaking  pioneering  work  in  various  fields  of  health  sciences  and  finding  solutions  for
health problems in the country.
Amit  Mishra,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering,  selected  for  the
Distinguished Life Time Membership of National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS), India for his
excellent research contribution in Biomedical Science.
Sushmita  Jha,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering,  selected  for
Outstanding Scientist Molecular Biology award under the Health and Medical Sciences discipline at the
4th  Venus  International  Research  Awards  -  VIRA  2018.  This  award  recognizes  'Expertly  Qualified
Research  Professionals'  for  their  exceptional  research  record  of  significant  contribution  (Fundamental
Discoveries, New Theories, or  Insights  which had an Impact on their own discipline  and beyond and
cutting-edge achievements) to the laboratory/Institute.
Department of Chemistry
Rakesh  Kumar  Sharma,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Chemistry,  honoured  with
the Outstanding  Research  Award  2018 during 1st Annual  Transformational  Leadership  Summit  &
Awards  2018 at  Bangalore.  The  Outstanding  Research  Award  exemplifies  excellence  in  research,  and
fosters  and  felicitates  individuals  with  inclination  towards  creating  positive  impact  on  research  and
academic community with notable contribution to their field.
Department of Electrical Engineering
1.  Deepak  Fulwani,  Associate  Professor,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  inducted  in  Editorial
Board of IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications as an Associate Editor.
2.  Mahesh  Kumar,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  selected  as  Emerging
Leader  2018  by  the  Journal  of  Physics  D:  Applied  Physics,  published  by  the  Institute  of  Physics,  UK.
Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics (JPhysD) will be publishing a special issue bringing together the
best early-career researchers in condensed matter physics. Called Emerging Leaders, this special issue
will be part of the Journal of Physics (JPhys) series’ 50th anniversary celebrations in 2017, recognizing
the talents of exceptional, upcoming researchers.
3.  Mahesh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, admitted as Member of The
Royal Society of Chemistry, UK.
4.  Mahesh  Kumar,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  awarded  Bhaskara
Advanced Solar Energy (BASE) Fellowship
5.  Mahesh  Kumar,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  selected  as  Member  of
National Academy of Sciences India (NASI)
6.  Mahesh  Kumar,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  elected  as  Chairman  of
Indian National Young Academy of Science (INYAS)
Rajlaxmi Chouhan, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, was presented with Late
Shri  Pralhad  P  Chhabria  Award  2019  for  Best  Woman  Professional  (Early  Career)  instituted  by  Hope
Foundation  and  Research  Center  (HFRC)  in  association  with  IEEE  India  Council  and  Women  in
Engineering Affinity Group, IEEE Pune Section. The award includes a Medal, a Citation, and a Prize of
Rs. 1.25 Lakhs.
Soumava Mukherjee, Assistant Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, received URSI Young
Scientist Award in 2019 URSI Asia Pacific Radio Science Conference held during 9-15 March 2019.
Transaction paper titled "SIW Based Quad-beam Leaky-wave Antenna With Polarization Diversity for
Four Quadrant Scanning Applications," by A. Sarkar, Soumava Mukherjee, A. Sharma, A. Biswas and
M.  J.  Akhtar  selected  for  top  cover  page  of  the  journal  issue  (IEEE  Transactions  on  Antennas  and
Propagation, vol. 66, no. 8, Aug. 2018) in IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation.
The  following  Outreach  activities  have  been  undertaken  by  the  Faculty  Members  at  IIT
Jodhpur during the FY 2018-19.
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
The  orientation  program  on  UBA  2.0  was  attended  by  Nirmal  K.  Rana  at  IIT  Delhi  on  25
April 2018 and regional workshop on UBA 2.0 was attended by the Nodal Officer Ananya Debnath
at  MPUAT,  Udaipur  on  10  August  2018.  UBA  team  of  IIT  Jodhpur  along  with  Ananya  Debnath
attended  Gramsabha  meeting  in  Rudiya  village  on  15  August  2018.  Chiranjoy  Chattopadhyay,
Ganpat Choudhary, Amitap Khandelwal spoke about the action plans for the three major problems
in the village identified based on the survey performed under the guidance of Anand Plappally.
Unnat  Bharat  Abhiyan  team  organized  an  open discussion  on  “Use  of  emerging  technology
for social good” at IIT Jodhpur on 25 February, 2019. Two distinguished speakers, Mr Anurag Goyal
and Dr Anurag Agrawal delivered lectures on emerging technology relevant for health care and role
of administration in this aspect. This brainstorming session was attended by Faculty members and
Students.  In  continuation,  another  discussion  was  held  with  Mr  Anurag  Goyal,  Faculty  members
and the Director on 26 February 2019. Different aspects and practical challenges on working on such
areas were critically explored during the discussion.
Vigyan Jyoti Program
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan team of IIT Jodhpur at Gramsabha meeting in Rudiya village
Vigyan  Jyoti  Program  was  organized  by  IIT  Jodhpur  during  14  May  – 02  June  2018.  The
program is a new initiative of the Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India,
to  bring  gender  parity  in  the  different  fields  of  Science  &  Technology  (S&T),  where  women  are
under-represented.  This  program  was  spearheaded by  Priyanka  Singh,  Assistant  Professor,
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, IIT Jodhpur. Under this program, 30 female students of
Classes  XI  &  XII  attended this  comprehensive three  week  residential  program  at  IIT  Jodhpur
campus and participated in various activities specifically designed for them on a spectrum of issues
like Role Models, Society & Life, Health, Competence, and Profession & Life.
Participants of Vigyan Jyoti Program
Science Exhibition and Lecture Series on Nanotechnology, 15 October 2018
A  one-day  “Science Exhibition  and  Lecture  Series  on  Nanotechnology”  was  organized  by
Ritu Gupta, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, IIT Jodhpur in collaboration with Centre
for  Nano  and  Soft  Matter,  Bangalore and  support  from  Karnataka  Science  and  Technology
Promotion Society (Govt. of Karnataka). The event was scheduled at IIT Jodhpur on 15 October 2018
and  at  Rajasthan University,  Jaipur  on  29  October  2018  for  science  students  belonging  to  different
streams from various schools, colleges and institutes of Jodhpur and Jaipur. There were around 300
participants  at  the  event  organized  at  IIT  Jodhpur  and  250  participants  at  Rajasthan  University,
Jaipur. The  event  consisted  of  introductory  and  advanced  lectures,  an  exhibition,  open  discussion
session, a quiz and a video show. The main objective of the event was to introduce the importance of
nanoscience  for  mankind  and  linking  the  activities  of  Tenth  Bengaluru  India  Nano  Promotional
Programme  organized  every  year  by  Department  of  Information  Technology,  Biotechnology,  and
Science  &  Technology  and  Vision  Group  on  Nanotechnology  (VGNT)  under  the  guidance  and
support of Prof. C. N. R. Rao, FRS.
Group Photo of Participants, Faculty Members, Staff Members with Invited Guests
6th GIAN Course on Topological Solitons and their Applications, 10-15 December 2018
The  sixth  course  under  GIAN  Program  at  IIT  Jodhpur  on  “Topological  Solitons  and  their
Applications”  was  organised  during  10-15  December  2018.  Subhashish  Banerjee,  Associate
Professor, IIT Jodhpur and Richard MacKenzie, Professor, Université de Montréal, Canada were the
key resource persons.
Group Photo of Participants of GIAN Program, Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students with Invited Guests
National Workshop on Emerging Applications of Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos
in Science and Engineering , 13-15 December 2018
A  National  Workshop  on  “Nonlinear  Dynamics  and  Chaos  (NDCSE2018)”  was  organized
during 13-15 December 2018 at Department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT Jodhpur. The workshop
had 6 Keynote Talks, 20 invited Lectures and poster presentation in the area of nonlinear dynamics
and  Chaos  by  postgraduate  students/research  scholars
universities. The workshop received a very encouraging response and it was attended by more than
eighty-five  participants.  The  aim  of  this  workshop  was  to  bring  together  leading  specialists  from
engineering, applied mathematics, physics, and biophysics to promote interdisciplinary discussion
in areas related to dynamics, chaos and their applications. This workshop was primarily designed to
present the fundamentals and the recent developments in the fast developing, interdisciplinary field
of Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos. This workshop provided a platform to exchange experiences in
the  field  of  Nonlinear  Dynamics.  The  outcome  presented  recent  breakthroughs  in  the  state-of-art
applied  research  being  carried  out  in  the  field  of  Nonlinear  Dynamics  and  Chaos.  Further,  the
workshop  encouraged  Students  and  Scholars  pursuing  M.Sc.  (Physics/Applied  Mathematics/Bio-
physics),  M.E/M.Tech.  and  PhD  and  provided  an  opportunity  to  present  their  current  research
interest in this scientific field with their poster presentations.
Prof.  Santanu  Chaudhary,  Director  of  IIT  Jodhpur  welcomed  the  participants  and  invited
speakers and provided the opening note for the conference while Prof. Barun Pratiher, Convener of
NDCSE 2018 addressed briefly about the workshop. The workshop started with keynote lectures by
Prof.  P.  Parmananda  (IIT  Bombay)  and  Prof.  S.  Prof.  Keshavamurthy  (IIT  Madras).  Prof.  S.  K.
Dwivedy (IIT Guwahati), Prof. Kannan Iyer (IIT Bombay), Prof. Nandan K. Sinha (IIT Madras), and
Prof. S. Sinha (IISER Mohali) delivered keynote talks while Prof. S. P. Harsha (IIT Roorkee), Prof. B.
K.  Goswami  (BARC,  Mumbai),  Prof.  S.  Chakraborty  (IIT  Kanpur),  Prof.  A.  Prasad  (Delhi
University),  Prof.  L.  Chandra  (IIT  BHU),  Prof.  N.  Bairagi  (Javadpur  University),  Prof.  A.  Garg
(JNVU,  Jodhpur),  Prof.  J.  Vajpai  (JNVU,  Jodhpur),  Prof.  M.  Shrimali  (CU,  Rajasthan),  Prof.  D.
Fulwani  (IIT  Jodhpur),  Prof.  A.  Mishra  (IIT  Jodhpur),  and  Prof.  Rakesh  Choubisa  (BITS,  Pilani)
delivered the invited talks in this workshop.
Group Photo on the closing day
16th  Subject  Expert  Committee-Life  Science  Meeting  under  Women  Scientist  Scheme  (WOS-A),  14-16
The 16th Subject Expert Committee-Life Science meeting under the Women Scientist Scheme (WOS-
A) of DST, Government of India, was organized at IIT Jodhpur during 14-16 February 2019. Twelve
Committee  Members  and  around  100  participants  attended  this  event,  which  was  coordinated  by
Dr.  Priyanka  Singh,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering,  IIT  Jodhpur.
The  Women  Scientists  Scheme  aims  to  encourage  women  scientists  to  pursue  research  in  frontier
areas  of  science  and  engineering,  on  problems  of  societal  relevance  and  to  take  up  S&T-based
internship followed by self-employment.
Participants of the Meeting with Organisers
National Workshop on Intelligent Multimodal Interfaces, 09-10 March 2019
A National Workshop on Intelligent Multimodal Interfaces was organised by the Department of
Mathematics  at  IIT  Jodhpur  during  09-10  March  2019.  The  workshop  had  two  Keynote  talk,  four
Expert  Lectures,  two  interactive  sessions  and  a  Panel  Discussion  in  the  area  of  Intelligent
Multimodal  Interfaces  by  eminent  Professors,  Scientists,  and  Researchers  from  Academia,  R&D
Organizations  and  Industry.  The  workshop  received  a  very  encouraging  response,  and  was
attended  by  more  than  100  participants.  The  workshop  emphasized  bringing  forward  various
problems  and  research  opportunities  in  the  area  of  Intelligent  Multimodal  Interfaces.  More
specifically,  it  focused  on  artificial  intelligence,  computational  linguistics,  computer  graphics,
cognitive sciences, software design, and information retrieval.
Gaurav  Bhatnagar,  General  Chair  and  Head,  Department  of  Mathematics,  welcomed  the
participants  and  experts  to  the  workshop.  The  workshop  was  inaugurated  by  S.  Chaudhury,
Director, IIT Jodhpur who then delivered the inaugural talk. This was followed by the invited talks
by S. Das, IIT Madras; A. Sankaran, IBM Research, India; S.R. Nair, NVIDIA, India; A. Malik, Vizara
Technologies, Delhi; P.K. Biswas, IIT Kharagpur; B. Chanda, ISI Kolkata; M. Manivanan, IIT Madras;
C.  Arora,  IIT  Delhi.  The  workshop  concluded  with  a  panel  discussion  on  challenges,  opportunity,
and  road  ahead  in  the  area.  The  panel  discussion  was  steered  by  S.  Chaudhury,  Director,  IIT
Jodhpur  with  panel  members  as  P.K.  Biswas,  Professor,  IIT  Kharagpur,  B.  Chanda,  Professor,  ISI
Kolkata, C. Arora, Associate Professor, IIT Delhi, and A. Sankaran, Research Scientist, IBM Research
The workshop provided an opportunity to the participants to showcase their research in the
form of posters and demonstrations and to experts to get their valuable inputs. A total of 9 posters
were selected after peer review to demonstrate their research work during the poster session.
Group Photo of the Participants of NWIMI’19
Panel Discussion during NWIMI’19
National Conference on AI innovations and IP Trends, 11-12 March 2019
National  Conference  on  AI  innovations  and  IP  Trends  was  jointly  organised  by  DST
Government of Rajasthan, and IIT Jodhpur during 11 – 12 March 2019. It was the first conference in
the country to deal with the subject of AI Innovations and Intellectual property rights-related issues.
This  conference  brought  together  accomplished  and  experienced  AI  and  IP  professionals  from
academia, industry, and R&D organization to understand both – AI innovations and their protection
methodologies.  Eminent  speakers  were  invited  from  various  organizations  such  as  Tata
Consultancy  Services,  Office  of  Scientific  Advisor  to  Honourable  PM,  CIPAM,  Vibrant  Health
Limited, Mehta & Mehta Associates, XLPAT Labs, Ex Lege Chambers, FormulateIP, etc.
In the year 2018-19, the following Lectures and Seminars were organised whose details are
Lectures & Seminars
IIT Jodhpur Decennial Lecture Series
IIT Jodhpur has completed ten years since successful inception in July 2008. This journey of
its  first  decade  has  been  a  journey  of  accomplishments,  challenges,  learning  and  opportunities.  In
this  context,  the  Institute  started  organizing  a  Decennial  Lecture  Series  to  celebrate  this  special
milestone in its journey.
S.No.  Speaker & Topic
Distinguished Scientist, Former Director
Indian Space Research Organisation, Ahmedabad
1st Decennial Lecture - “Sanskar” of Innovation
11 February 2019
Dr. Anurag Agrawal
CSIR - Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi
2nd Decennial Lecture - “Multi, Inter and Trans: Brothers from different Mothers”
25 February 2019
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Senior Principal Scientist
CSIR - Indian Institute of Chemical Technology
“Cooperativity of non-covalent interactions”
02 April 2018
Ramakrishna Ramaswamy, Professor
Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
“Fireflies and Chimeras: Symmetry and symmetry-breaking in dynamical systems”
19 April 2018
Rama S. Verma
Department of Biotechnology
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras
“Developing Biological Dressings From Biological Waste For Diabetic Wound Healing”
30 August 2018
Department of Chemistry
Nanotherapeutics Research Laboratory, University of Miami, USA
"Cancer, Atherosclerosis, Mitochondria Isolation, BBB penetration and their 'Nanoparticle Connection’”
17 April 2018
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, USA
“A Plasmonics Route towards Spectroscopic Fingerprinting of the Tumor and its Microenvironment”
8 June 2018
“Crystal Engineering: Design and Synthesis of Multicomponent Crystals and their Applications”
24 October 2018
Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research (ISIR), Osaka University, Japan
"Systematic Development, Synthesis and Applicati on of New ‐ Conjugated Compounds for Organic Solar
4 January 2019
Banani Chakraborty, Professor
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
“DNA-aptamer coupled DNA origami as bio-sensors and delivery vehicles”
18 January 2019
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Managing Director, Asia South, NVIDIA
29 January 2019
Avinash Sharma, Assistant Professor
Philippe Dugerdil, Professor
University of Applied Sciences
Department of Electrical Engineering
S.C. Sahasrabudhe, Professor
Former Director, DA-IICT, Gandhinagar
“Electronics, as it evolved over the years”
23 October 2018
Saif Khan Mohammed , Professor
Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi
"Massive MIMO and OTFS Modulation for 5G Wireless Communication Systems"
20 February 2019
H.M. Gupta,  Formerly, Professor
“Ten Points Academics & Not So Random Thoughts”
11 July 2019
M.L. Kothari, Professor
Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and INAE Fellow
08 August 2019
Department of Mathematics
Inder K. Rana
Emeritus Fellow, Department of Mathematics, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay
“Why Linear Algebra!” and “Beyond Infinity”
12,14 November 2018
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Ashok Joshi, Professor
Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay
20 – 22 April 2018
Chief Designer at Rotary Wing Research & Design Centre (RWRDC)
Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, Bangalore
“Development Challenges of Modern Helicopter Transmission Systems”
28 September 2018
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
KU Leuven, Belgium
“Structure  – Property Correlations in Polymer based Nanocomposites”
21 February 2019
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of Days of National Importance
World Immunology Day Celebration
World  Immunology  Day  was  organized  at  IIT  Jodhpur  on  1st  May  2018,  by  Dr  Sushmita  Jha,
with  support  from  Indian  Immunology  Society.  This  program  was  organized  with  the  aim  of
encouraging students to choose a career in Science. M.Tech and PhD students from the Department
of Bioscience and Bioengineering, conducted quiz, skit, videos and laboratory visit for Students of
Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur.
Students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur, watching videos on
Students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, IIT Jodhpur, viewing samples under
Ph.D. and M.Tech. Students of Department of Biocience &
Bioengineering enacting a skit on Immune System
4th International Day of Yoga Celebration
The 4th International Day of Yoga was observed on 21 June 2018 at IIT Jodhpur. Members of
the IIT Jodhpur fraternity including Students, Faculty and Staff Members, and their family members
enthusiastically participated in the event. Professor B. P. Kashyap, Professor In-charge, Department
of  Metallurgical  &  Materials  Engineering,  IIT  Jodhpur,  in  his  opening  remarks,  welcomed  the
participants  and  explained  the  benefits  of  Yoga  for  physical  and  mental  health.  The  participants
were  taught  various Aasanaas and Pranayam.  A  vote  of  thanks  was  proposed  by Shri  Subhash
Pandey, Advisor (Administration), IIT Jodhpur.
The day was observed in the GPRA Residential Campus as well, by the Staff Members and
Students staying there.
Yoga session in progress at Permanent Campus and at GPRA Residential Campus, IIT Jodpur
72nd  Independence Day Celebration
The  72nd  Independence  Day  of  the  Nation
was celebrated by Members of IIT Jodhpur, on 15
August  2018.  The  Director  hoisted  the  National
Flag,  and  the  National  Anthem  was  sung  with
affection  and  devotion  to  the  motherland,  by  all
present.  Competitions  were  organized  for  the
children  of  IIT  Jodhpur  employees.  Students
presented music and street play.
A  Children’s  Library  was  inaugurated  on
this  occasion,  for  the  children  of  employees,
which is an initiative of the IIT Jodhpur Library.
Musical performance by Students of IIT Jodhpur
Street Play on Depression in Youth by Nukkad Natak Mandali, Students Gymkhana, IIT Jodhpur
Observance of Swachhta Pakhwada
Swachhta  Pakhwada  was  observed  at  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Jodhpur  during  1-15
September 2018. On this occasion, activities such as Institute Lecture on Swachhta and Hygiene in
Children,  poster  making  and  slogan  writing,  were  organized.  The  Institute  Swachhta  Committee
assessed the level of cleanliness in buildings on campus and a cleanliness drive was undertaken in
Members of the Institute Swachhta Committee assessing level of
cleanliness in buildings on Campus
Dr. Saroj Dabas, Principal, KV IITJ, delivering a talk on How to inculcate
Swachhta and Hygiene in Children
International Day of the Girl Child Celebration
The International Day of Girl Child was observed at IIT Jodhpur on 11 October 2018 during
which  the  Women  Cell  of  the  Institute  organized  its  Autumn  Activities.  Chief  Guest  Professor.
Poonam  Saxena,  Vice  Chancellor,  National  Law  University,  Jodhpur  addressed  on  “Towards
making gender parity a reality” and a competition was organized on Legal Awareness.
Professor Poonam Saxena addressing the audience
Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat celebration
On 29 April 2018, under the Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat initiative, the students of IIT Jodhpur,
in  collaboration  with  SPICMACAY,  Rajasthan  Chapter,  rendered  a  soulful  presentation  of  the
beauty  and  cultural  heritage  of  Assam,  deep  in  the  hinterlands  of  Rajasthan.  The  evening  started
with  a  beautiful  traditional  performance  of Bihu  Dance,  an  ethnic  folk-dance  of  Assam,  by  the
students of IIT Jodhpur. The State Anthem of Assam was then receited. Shrimati Anwesha Mahanta, a
famous exponent of the traditional Assamese dance Sattariya, presented two beautiful renditions of
the  ancient  dance  forms Bhagavatam and Krishnakatha  followed  by  a  short  video  presentation
depicting the natural beauty of Assam and music performance by the students.
Bihu Dance performance by Students
Sattriya Dance by Shrimati Anwesha Mahanta
Vigilance Awareness Week
Vigilance  Awareness  Week  was  observed  at  IIT  Jodhpur  as  per  Central  Vigilance
Commission’s  (CVC)  guidlelines  from  29  October  2018  to  3  November  2018,  with  the  theme
Eradicate Corruption - Build a New India. The pledge of integrity was administered by Professor S.
R.  Vadera,  Head  and  Professor,  Department  of  Physics,  which  was  attended  by  the  Faculty
Members and Staff Members.
Banners  and  display  boards  propagating  the  message  on  Vigilance  Awareness,  Anti-
corruption  etc.  were  displayed  at  all  prime  locations  of  the  Institute.  Also,  essay  writing  and
presentation competitions on the said theme were organized by Dr. Gaurav Harit, Chief Vigilance
Officer, during 1-2 November 2018 for all members of the Institute.
Pledge of Integrity administered by Professor S.R. Vadera and prize distribution for participants of the competitions
Celebration of Rashtriya Ekta Diwas, Birth Anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel
Rashtriya  Ekta  Diwas  was  celebrated  at  IIT  Jodhpur  under  the  guidance  of  Ministry  of
Human Resource development (MHRD), Government of India on 31 October 2018 to commemorate
the  birth  anniversary  of  Sardar  Vallabhbhai  Patel,  one  of  the  founding  fathers  of  the  Republic  of
India. Professor S. R. Vadera, Professor, IIT Jodhpur, led the Institute’s Community i.e., the Faculty
Members, Staff Members and Students, in taking a pledge for National Unity, which was taken at
Institute’s  Lecture  Hall  Complex.  Also,  on  this  occasion,  a  5  kilometer  Run  for  Unity  event  was
flagged  off  by  Vadera  along  with  Sh.  Subhash  Pandey,  Advisor  (Administration),  IIT  Jodhpur.
Many Students, Faculty and Staff Members participated in the event. Professor Vadera encouraged
the participants and distributed prizes amongst the winners of Run for Unity.
Prof S. R. Vadera, Head and Professor, Department of Physics, and Sh. Subhash Pandey, Advisor (Administration) flagging off of the Run for Unity
National Education Day
National Education Day, which is the birthday of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was celebrated by
the  Children’s  Library  of  the  Institute  on  17  November  2018.  Elocution  and  drawing  competitions  were
organised for children of the employees of IIT Jodhpur. Children participated in these competitions with
great  enthusiasm.  Prizes  were  given  away  to  the  winners  and  runners  up  by  Professor  S.  R.  Vadera,
Head, Department of Physics.
Children participating in competitions with great enthusiasm
2018 Institute Day Celebration
2018 Institute day was celebrated at IIT Jodhpur on 20 April, 2018 marking the culmination
of the year’s academic and non-academic activities. Sri Subhash Pandey, Advisor (Administration)
welcomed  the  gathering.  Reports  of  the  Institute’s  activities  during  2017-18  were  presented  by
Rakesh  K.  Sharma  (Associate  Dean  (R&D)),  Suril  V.  Shah,  (Associate  Dean  (Academics)),
Samanwita  Pal  (Associate  Dean  (Students)),  and      C.  V.  R.  Murty  (Director).  Certificates  of
appreciation  were  distributed  to  students  for  their  achievements  in  academic  and  non-academic
activities  during  2017-2018.  Thereafter,  Madhu Dikshit  (Professor-in-Charge,  Department  of
Bioscience & Bioengineering), B. P. Kashyap (Professor-in-Charge, Department of Metallurgical &
Materials Engineering), and Shri M. L. Bapna (Advisor (Industry – Academia Interface)) addressed
the gathering on growth of the Institute. The Director delivered the closing remarks.
Dr. Rakesh K. Sharma, Associate Dean (R&D) presenting Report of R&D
Activities during 2017-18
Dr. Suril V. Shah, Associate Dean (Academics) presenting Certificates to
Students for Academic Achievements
Outgoing Students attending the function
Dr. Samanwita Pal, Associate Dean (Students) presenting Certificates
to Students for Non-Academic Achievements
4th Convocation Ceremony
The  4th  Convocation  of  IIT  Jodhpur  was  organized  on  25  August  2018  in  its  Permanent
Campus. The Chief Guest for this momentous occasion was Dr. Srikumar Banerjee, Chancellor, Homi
Bhabha National Institute, Mumbai. Dr. R. Chidambaram, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur
(and  former  Principal  Scientific  Advisor  to  Government  of  India),  presided  over  the  ceremony.  In
this 4th Convocation, the Institute awarded 388 degrees – 289 B.Tech., 37 M.Sc., 43 M.Tech. and 19
Ph.D. degrees, consisting of students who graduated in 2017 and 2018 together. With this the total
number of students who graduated from this Institute has reached 1,108. 267 of these 388 students
received  their  degrees in  person in  the  presence  of  their  parents  and  family  members.  Also,  the
academically  outstanding  students  received  medals  and  certificates.  The  following  are  the  Medal
winners in the Convocation.
2018 President’s Gold Medal
for the graduating student with Best Academic Performance among all
students of ALL 2018 B.Tech. Programs
Vijay Kumar Paliwal
B.Tech. (CSE) Student
2018 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student
with Best Academic Performance amongst all students of 2018 B.Tech.
(Computer Science & Engineering) Program
Vijay Kumar Paliwal
B.Tech. (CSE) Student
2018 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student
with Best Academic Performance amongst all students of 2018 B.Tech.
(Mechanical Engineering) Program
B.Tech. (ME) Student
2018 Director’s Prize
for the Group of Students with Best Academic Innovation work
amongst all Students of B.Tech. Programs of 2018
Balasankula Sai Chaithanya
for their project on Self-Balancing Two Wheeler. The work was done under the supervision of Kaushal
Kumar  A.  Desai  and  Suril  V.  Shah,  and  the  technology  has  been  transferred  to  TVS  Motor  Company
2017 President’s Gold Medal
for the graduating student with Best Academic Performance among all
students of ALL 2017 B.Tech. Programs
B.Tech. (CSE) Student
2017 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student
with Best Academic Performance among all students of
2017 B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) Program
B.Tech. (CSE) Student
2017 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student
with Best Academic Performance among all students of 2017 B.Tech.
(Mechanical Engineering) Program
B.Tech. (ME) Student
2018 Chairman, Board of Governors, Prize for the graduating student
with Best Academic Performance among all students of 2018 M.Tech.
(Electrical Engineering) Program
M.Tech. (EE) Student
Opening Ceremony of Children’s Library @ The Learning Hub, IIT Jodhpur
The  Learning  Hub,  IIT  Jodhpur,  has  started  a Children’s  Library under  its  umbrella  for
children of IIT Jodhpur fraternity. The Opening Ceremony was witnessed by guests and children
of IIT Jodhpur employees along with their parents.
Dr. (Mrs.) Bharti Swamy, opening the Children’s Library
Today’s enthused readers, tomorrow’s informed citizens…!!
Curious children and parents during the Opening Ceremony of Children’s Library
IIT Jodhpur moved into its sprawling Permanent Campus located on NH 65, Nagaur Road,
Karwar (Village), Jodhpur (City) during May – June 2017. By shifting its entire academic activities
to  its  Permanent  Campus,  the  Institute  crossed  a  major  milestone.  This  new  campus  has  been
planned meticulously and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep. More
importantly, it will be an international exemplar of sustainability with strategies for ensuring NET
ZERO ENERGY, WATER and WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are:
(1) Walking campus, which is pedestrian oriented and bicycle dominant;
(2)  Learning  facilitated  anywhere,  anytime  with  wireless  ICT  backbone  (including  Multi-media
enabled learning spaces with flexible, shared public spaces);
(3) Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant buildings and GRIHA
LD  benchmark  campus  (including  dense  desert  settlement  morphology,  low  height  buildings
(up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low embodied energy materials, and improved local
and traditional methods);
(4) Plantation  with  native  species,  soil  stabilization,  protection from  dusty  wind  to  arrest  erosion,
desertification, and building-up soil moisture over time;
(5)  Rain  water  harvesting,  and  water  reduction  and  sewage  recycling,  together  greening  the  site
over time; and
(6) Segregated wastes and customized recycling.
Many  of  the  Faculty  Members  are  residing  on campus.  Initially,  there were  60  flats in  the
Park  Avenue  residential  colony;  in  the  Second  Phase  of  Campus  Development,  72  more  flats  have
been constructed. Also, 3 new hostel buildings have been constructed. The salient feature of these
hostels is Single AC Room accommodation in all buildings. A dedicated dining hall building caters
to  the  needs  of  students  and  other  residents. It has a  mess  and  a  canteen  that serve hygienic  and
nutritious food. Essential services and amenities have been established to facilitate residents in their
day-to-day needs. A Primary Health Center runs in the residential area, in collaboration with M/s.
Goyal  Hospital  &  Research  Center,  Jodhpur,  and  is  ISO:9001  certified.  Basic  services  (like  the
groceries, dining and food court, bank, stationery, laundry, beauty parlour and salon services) are
operational in the Community Center towards southern side of the Campus. A Kendriya Vidyalaya is
functional in the campus, running Classes 1 to 8. It is housed in the First Building of IIT Jodhpur.
There is a dedicated bus service for commuting from the Campus to and from the city of Jodhpur.
The Staff Members have relocated to the Staff Quarters on campus during February 2019.
The  photographs  in  the  pages  to  follow  give  a  glimpse  of  the  Permanent  Campus  of  IIT
A view of the Main Building of IIT Jodhpur
Blue 1: Boys Hostel, IIT Jodhpur
Library Building: The Learning Hub
A view of Park Avenue: Faculty & Officers Housing
ISO Certified Primary Health Center
Shopping Center in the Community Center, Jaisalmer Club
Facilities on Campus
Following are some facilities that are available in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur:
(a)  ATM & Bank: The IIT Jodhpur Branch of SBI (State Bank of India) and its ATM are housed in
the  Community  Center  Building,  enabling  students  and  residents  to  make  transactions  with
(b)  Dining Hall: The Dining Hall Building has a Mess and a Restaurant that cater to the needs of
students and employees. They provide hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks. The
mess offers good quality food, regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene and nutritional
values, and provided at affordable cost.
(c)  Gymnasium: All students hostels have well-equipped gymnasium for students.
(d)  Entertainment  Room:  Every  hostel  consists  of  recreation  facilities  (like  TV  Rooms,  where
students can enjoy matches and watch movies) along with indoor games (like table tennis and
(e)  Laundry  Service:  Students  and  residents  are  facilitated  with  a  dedicated  laundry  service  on
(f)  Shopping  Center:  Shops  catering  to  the  various  primary  needs  of  students  and  residents,  like,
grocery,  stationery,  grooming  parlour,  milk  parlour,  are  housed  in  the  Community  Center
(g)  Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Permanent Campus and
Jodhpur City at regular intervals, exclusively for the Students of the Institute.
(h)  Medical  Services:  The  Primary  Health  Center  operated  by  M/s.  Goyal  Hospital  &  Research
Center  Pvt.  Ltd.,  Jodhpur,  in  the  residential  area  of  the  Institute,  provides  routine  health
services to students and residents of the Campus. Besides this fully functional, round-the-clock,
ISO Certified, Primary Health Center in the campus, IIT Jodhpur is fortunate to have in the city
an all new state-of-the-art All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the associated Hospitals of the
S. N. Medical College and some specialized hospitals. The Institute has agreements with a few
prominent hospitals for priority treatment to its employees and students. These include: Goyal
Hospital  and  Research  Center,  Medi  Pulse  Hospital,  and  Vasan  Eye  Care  Hospital.  Also,  the
Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical College
and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health Centers and
in  critical  medical  cases.  IIT  Jodhpur  has  empanelled  two  hospitals  in  Jaipur.  These  two
hospitals  are  accredited  by  National  Accreditation  Board  for  Hospitals  &  Healthcare,  and
patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the treatment.
For its copybook-style Master Plan, the Master Plan of IIT Jodhpur’s Permanent Campus has
been  awarded  5  Star  Rating  by  the  Green  Rating  for  Integrated  Habitat  Assessment  (GRIHA)
Council  under  GRIHA  LD  V1  category  on  11  December  2018.  The  campus  design  of  IIT  Jodhpur
visualizes all parts of all zones as interdependent, integral network, like the metabolism of a living
organism,  integrating  social,  economic  and  environmental  sustainability  to  become  a  near-zero
emission campus. Unlike a campus where buildings are spread out, increasing infrastructure and
water consumption and creating heat islands, this campus uses a series of compact urban clusters
typical of desert settlements. The campus is designed to be a flexible plug and play system by using
a  series  of  service  tunnels,  trenches  and  serviceable  shafts  that  allow  easy  maintenance  and
upgrading of all wired and piped services without breaking open a wall, slab or road.
ACADEMIC & RESEARCH FACILITIES
The  Permanent  Campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur  spreads  across  852  acres  of  land  located  ~24  km
away from the center of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 65 towards Nagaur, N-NE from
the center of Jodhpur. It has 3 parcels of land. Presently constructions exist in Pockets A and B. The
First Phase of Construction is complete with the buildings following buildings that are being used
for its academic, research and administrative activities are:
1.  Main Building, housing all the administrative offices of the Institute;
2.  The  Learning  Hub,  housing  the  Library  of  the  Institute,  and  accommodating  the  Computer
3.  Lecture  Hall  Building  with  9  classrooms  of  60  seating  capacity  and  a  325  and  650  seater
classrooms  each.  All  the  classrooms  are  air  conditioned,  equipped  with  modern  learning
facilities like the Internet and audio visual facilities;
4.  The Basic Laboratories are established in one building;
5.  Department  of  Computer  Science  &  Engineering  (CSE)  Building  houses  the  Departments  of
CSE,  Mathematics,  and  Humanities  &  Social  Sciences.  Also,  the  laboratories  of  Computer
Science & Engineering are established in this building;
6.  Departments  of  Chemistry  and  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  are  housed  in  the  building  of
Department of Chemistry;
7.  Departments  of  Electrical  Engineering  and  Physics  share  the  space  in  the  building  of
Department of Electrical Engineering;
8.  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering  also  houses  the  newly  established  Department  of
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering;
Besides  these  buildings,  the  First  Building  of  IIT  Jodhpur  in  Pocket  B  houses  the  Office  of
The following pages give a description of the laboratories and research facilities, library and
computing facilities of the Institute.
IIT  Jodhpur  has  established  good  number  of  teaching  and  research  laboratories  and
facilities,  which  aid  in  elevating  the  students  from  minimalist  academic  concerns  to  inquisitive
world  of  scientific  arena.  These  teaching  and  research  laboratories  help  Faculty  Members  and
Students work for better future by supplementing and improving existing technologies and bodies
of  knowledge,  using  competence,  creativity  and  imagination.  Also,  the  Institute  has  a  centralized
management of its sophisticated instruments under one umbrella known as the Center for Advanced
Scientific Instruments (CASE); for use by both internal and external users.
Appearing below is a list of laboratories established in IIT Jodhpur whose details are given
in the following pages.
S.No.  Name of the Laboratory
Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
Chemical Biology laboratory
Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
Protein Engineering Laboratory
Networking Technologies Laboratory
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
Instrumentation & Communication Laboratory
Power Electronics Laboratory
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
Dynamics & Vibration Laboratory
Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
6.  Multimedia Laboratory
19.  Materials Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
23.  Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS / SQUID) Laboratory
24.  Materials Analysis Laboratory
Renewable Energy Laboratory
Solar Radiation Laboratory
Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
1. Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
The  Advanced  Biosciences  and  Neuroscience  laboratory  provides  cellular  and  molecular
investigative  tools for  UG  and PG  teaching  and research  in neuroscience.  Cell  culture  studies  are
utilised  along  with  molecular  biology,  biochemistry  and  microscopy  approaches  to  elucidate  the
molecular  mechanisms  underlying  molecular  and  cellular  interactions  underlying  inflammation
and  repair.  Inflammation  is  a  key  component  of  many  diseases  including  traumatic  brain  injury,
cancer,  multiple  sclerosis,  stroke,  asthma,  Parkinson’s  disease  and  Alzheimer’s  disease.
Inflammation  is  characterized  by  accumulation  and  proliferation  of  innate  immune  cells.  This  is
followed  by  clearance  of  dead  cells  and  cellular  debris  along  with  enhanced  expression  of
molecular mediators called cytokines and chemokines, which cause migration and proliferation of
immune  cells  and  may  even  lead  to  cell  death.  Understanding  the  mechanisms  by  which
inflammation  occurs,  and  the  molecular  mediators  involved  in  this  process,  is  necessary  for
identification of potential therapeutic targets.
2. Chemical Biology laboratory
The  Chemical  Biology  Laboratory  deploys  cellular  and  molecular  biology  approaches  to
explore  the  pathogenesis  of  cancer  and  other  neurodegenerative  diseases.  Given  the  interest  in
neuronal death, it is no wonder that this lab team is interested in E3 ubiquitin ligases essential for
quality control events in neuronal survival. Protein ubiquitylation is highly versatile, ordered, the
multistep  post  translation  modification  enzymatic  process  that  regulates numerous  aspects  of  cell
physiology.  This  lab  team  has  been  studying  the  role  of  such  E3  ligases  to  find  out  the  role  of
quality  control  E3  ubiquitin  ligases  in  maintenance  of  proteostasis  and  hence  playing  a  role  in
cellular  survival  and  death.  Such  important  biochemical  findings  may  contribute  to  innovative
therapeutic approaches for the diseases associated with misfolded proteins.
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control mechanism
which the lab team is trying to understand at present. The role of E3 ubiquitin ligases was reported
in  such  mechanisms  so  far.  Our  laboratory  is  dedicated  to  a  qualitative  research  in  the  field  of
protein  quality  control  mechanisms.  We  have  recently  found  that  a  HECT  domain  containing  E3
ubiquitin  ligase  E6-AP  helps  in  Amyotrophic  Lateral  Sclerosis  diseases  suppression  through  its
association with the misfolded protein aggregates formed by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support
that an E3 ligase can have a capability to clear the misfolded protein aggregation. However, while
appreciating  the  incredible  efficiency  of  cellular  systems,  we  must  recognize  the  crucial  role  of
chaperones which are supposed to work preferentially compared to E3 ubiquitin ligases in order to
refold  the  misfolded  proteins,  and  hence  conserving  the  energy  utilized  during  the  translation  of
those  proteins.  Various  examples  made  us  think  that  we  could  explore  the  role  of  both  the
chaperones and E3 ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are
working  not  only  with  E3  ubiquitin  ligases  but  also  with  the  chaperones  and  even  in  their
functional association to confer an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell.
3. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur, in addition to serving various
undergraduate  and  post-graduate  courses,  undertakes  research  in  the  areas  of  bioenergy  and
bioremediation. Researchers in the lab investigate on waste to energy conversion processes with an
aim  to  develop  sustainable  biotechnological  solutions  to  water  pollution  and  energy.  At  present,
successful bioremediation processes for nitrate and chromium (VI) contaminated wastes have been
developed. Also, research is underway for the development of low cost Microbial Carbon Capture
cells for power generation and algae cultivation. In addition to this, researchers in the lab have been
successful in isolating novel yeasts, the potential biodiesel producing candidates.
4. Protein Engineering Laboratory
The Protein Engineering Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is undertaking cutting-edge research in
developing  biomaterials  based  on  the  understanding  of  structural  and  functional  properties  of
useful  proteins  such  as  collagen.  The  implications  of  the  research  could  also  extend  towards
development of effective biomedical devices and implants.
5. Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students in scientific
methods that would solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding of the matter. This is a
multi-use  laboratory  and  provides  a  number  of  resources  to  assist  undergraduate,  graduate  and
Ph.D.  students  in  planning  their  professional  careers  after  completing  their  academic  program  at
This  laboratory  maintains  a  broad  spectrum  of  state-of-the-art  instrumentation  including
basic  laboratory  set  up  (for  organic,  inorganic,  organometallic  and  material  synthesis),  Nitrogen,
Oxygen and LPG gas line, Inert atmosphere boxes, vacuum line work, fume hood pH, conductivity,
BOD, COD, meters, Rotary evaporator, Vacuum pumps, centrifuges, High pressure reactor system,
Chiller, microbalances, Orbital Shaker, GC, HPLC and Radleys ready reactor. In the academic year
2012-2013,  the  lab  procured  equipment  such  as  Polarimeter,  Melting  point  Instrument,  Solar
Simulator, Digital Titrator, Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery analysers.
A  500  MHz  NMR  spectrometer  with  solid  state  probe  is  an  essential  resource,  whose
mission  is  to  make  a  state-of-the-art  high  field  NMR  and  methods  available  to  researchers,
providing  a  place  for  them  to  pursue  their  projects  and  develop  new  methodologies  in  NMR
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer (500 MHz)
Powder X-ray Diffractometer
Scanning Electron Microscope and Electron Dispersion
Surface Area Analyzer
Atomic Force Microscope
High Pressure Reactor
6. Multimedia Laboratory
The  Media  Laboratory  provides  facilities  to  carry  out  work  related  to  E-learning,  image
processing, and computer vision. The thrust areas of research in this lab are: Semantic analysis of
video/image  content,  video  surveillance,  human  motion  analysis,  document  image  analysis,
content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities include video recording, audio-video
digitization, video editing, etc. In the academic year 2011-2012, a research on Indian sign language
recognition  using  Kinect  has  been  initiated.  The  following  equipment  are  available  in  this
1.  Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook.
2.  Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP
3.  Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
7. Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking  Technologies  Laboratory  has  been  started  functioning  in  the  Academic  Year
2011-2012. It aims at enabling undergraduate and graduate students, who pursue their interest in
the area of computer networks, to understand the concepts of  computer networks and work with
contemporary  networking  equipment  in  a  realistic  setting.  In  addition,  the  lab  aims  at  providing
necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on advanced topics, such as wireless mesh
networks, sensor networks, communication on power lines, from computer networks. The activities
that take place in this laboratory are:
1.  Prototyping  of  networking  hardware  (Example,  Ethernet  switch,  IPV4  router  etc.)  using
2.  Developing packet processors using “Click router” modular software framework.
3.  Establishing  infrastructure  for  the  mini-Internet,  single-hop  wireless  networks,  multi-hop
wireless  mesh  and  sensor  networks,  power  line  communication  networks,  home  phone  line
4.  Studies  related  to  the  performance  analysis  of  various  protocols  over  on  different  network
5.  Development of novel routing algorithms, transport layer mechanisms, and services for next
6.  Setting  up  planet-lab  infrastructure  (which  will  essentially  become  part  of  the  global
distributed computing platform created over the Internet by connecting over 500+ sites). This
allows the students and researchers not only to understand the traffic patterns on the Internet
but  also  to  develop  new  technologies/applications  on  the  Internet  for  distributed  storage,
networking  mapping,  peer-to-peer  systems,  content  distribution  service,  and  cloud
8. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out experiments in the
field  of  Control  Systems,  Microprocessor  and  DSP.  Broadly,  the  lab  includes  the  following
1. Control Systems
(a)  Ball & Beam System from Quanser
(b)  Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser
(c)  Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser
(d) Software include Scilab / MatLab
2. DSP Lab Equipment
3. Microprocessor Lab
9. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In  this  laboratory  the  students  make  and  test  their  analog  and  digital  circuits  by  using  all
kinds  of  circuit  components  like  diode,  transistor,  op-amps,  and  clocks.  The  lab  has  following
1.  Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent
2.  Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent
3.  Programmable Power Supply from Scientific
4.  6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
10. Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The  mission  of  Instrumentation  and  Communication  Laboratory  is  to  provide  platform  for
UG  and  PG  students  on  research  and  hands-on  learning  in  Measurement  and  Automation
Technology. The state-of-the-art facilities at this laboratory offer innovative research opportunities
in  the  astronomical  space  of  communication  and  real  time  measurement  technology.  The
experienced  Lab  team  nurtures  students'  talent  in  research  and  offers  an  opportunity  for
developing  sophisticated  measurement,  test,  control  systems,  data  analysis  system  and  next
generation communication technologies.
Students  also  develop  theoretical  and  practical  competence  in  (i)  building  baseband
communication  circuits, (ii) the application of NI LabVIEW graphical programming software, (iii)
the  PXI  based  NI  RF/Wireless  measurement  stand,  (iv)  evaluating  NI  WSNs  and  LabVIEW
software, adjusting a software-defined radio system, measuring the parameters of studied antennas
and  (v)  the  operation  of  analog  modulation  schemes.  NI-Lab  contains  software  and  hardware
subsystems  which  enable  rapid  prototyping  and  development  of  embedded  systems  for  various
applications.  Currently, this lab constitutes the following setups:
1.  NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand
2.  Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard Development
3.  Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA, Bluetooth
4.  FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme Development
5.  Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand
6.  Wireless Sensor Networks Stand
7.  Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand
8.  Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand
9.  FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing
10.  VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand
11.  Fiber Optic Communication Stands
12.  Network Based Manufacturing
13.  USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless communication system for physical
layer design, record and playback, signal intelligence, algorithm validation and more.
14.  Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
This  lab  has  contributed  immensely  to  the  learning  and  research  activities  at  IIT  Jodhpur.
Communications  and  Networking  Lab,  Intelligent  Instrumentation,  System  Analysis  Techniques
and  Bio-Sensors  courses  are  being  offered  through  this  lab  for  both  graduate  and  undergraduate
students.  The  lab  has  provided  the  right  hardware  and  software  tools  for  many  industrial
consultancy  projects,  including  the  development  of  DRM/DRM+  IP  for  digital  radio  standards,
Link budget design for Marine environment, DRFM based Radar echo simulator and Blind Signal
Demodulator.  Other  projects  being  done  in  the  lab  are  development  of  affordable  wireless  video
transmission systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee protocol development.
11. Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in the area of
power  electronics  based  power  conversion  systems,  control  systems  and  drives.  The  laboratory
facilitates for faculty and students to conduct research in the areas power converters and AC/DC
micro-grid.  The  laboratory  is  equipped  with  state-of-art  test  and  measurement  instruments,
converters, power supplies and programming boards. Major equipment available in this lab are:
1.  High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000.
2.  DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B).
3.  Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B.
4.  Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32, 10A.
5.  Three phase inverter drive.
6.  Three phase inverter stacks.
7.  DC-DC converters.
8.  Differential currents Probes.
9.  Current clamps.
10.  Isolation Transformers.
11.  FPGA training kits and programming boards.
12. Robotics Laboratory
IIT  Jodhpur  has  an  advanced  robotics  laboratory  for  PG/UG  education  and  research.  The
infrastructure includes the following:
1.  Vicon Motion Tracking System
2.  Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret WAM ARM mounted on a PowerBot Mobile robot
3.  Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units
5.  Wheel Chair
6.  Force Plate
7.  Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-planning, SLAM
8.  Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution, Inverse Kinematics of
Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing, and
9.  GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
13. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
In  the  Advance  Manufacturing  Laboratory,  CAD  model  of  object  is  prepared  using  3D
modelling  software  like  ProE,  SolidWorks,  and  Catia.  FE  analysis  is  carried  out  using  Analysis
software  like  Ansys,  Nastran/Patran  and  precision  manufacturing  is  carried  out  using  CNC
programing/CNC  machines  and  Rapid  Prototyping  Machine/  3D  Printer.  The  manufactured
components  are  characterised  for  mechanical  behaviour  using  UTM,  Hardness  testers,  Impact
testers  etc.  The  role  of  CNC  machines  in  increasing  flexibility  and  precision  of  the  product  to  be
manufactured and, increasing productivity are illustrated. The Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
of institute is equipped with following facilities:
1.  CAD Section
2.  Precision Machining Section
3.  Rapid Prototyping Section
4.  Mechanical Behaviour Characterisation section
14. Central Workshop
Central workshop is the central facility of Institute, consisting of various workshops such as
Welding shop, Carpentry shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, Foundry and Heat treatment shop
and Machine shop. Undergraduate Students get hands on experience in above sections by doing the
job work and carrying out projects as part of their coursework and also students utilize the facilities
for fabrication purpose of their academic projects. It also supports the R&D projects of the institute
handled by various Faculty Members and Ph.D. and M.Tech. Thesis work of research scholars by
providing  them  assistance  in  fabrication  of  their  research  set-ups.  The  following  machines  and
equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1.  Welding fume extraction down draft table
2.  Multi process welding equipment
3.  Portable single phase MIG/MAG
4.  AC/DC welding equipment
5.  MIG/MAG welding equipment
6.  Treadle operated shearing Machine
7.  Hand operated Folding Machine
8.  Kaizen Muffle Furnace
9.  Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine
10.  Motorized Circle cutting Machine
11.  Hand operated Circle cutting Machine
12.  Hydraulic shearing Machine
13.  Portable Heating Plant
14.  Portable hardening plant
15.  Forging Heating Plant
16.  Aluminium Melting Plant
17.  Fitting Table
18.  Mould Making Facility
19.  Portable Tool Grinder
15. Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory
Dynamics  and  Vibration  Laboratory  is  well  equipped  with  various  mechanisms  such  as
Motorized  Gyroscope  Apparatus,  Static  and  Dynamic  Balancing  Apparatus,  Universal  Governor
Apparatus, Coriolis Component of Acceleration Apparatus, Epicyclic Gear Train Apparatus, Cam
Analysis  Machine  Apparatus,  Universal  Vibration  Apparatus,  Stroboscope  and  Tachometer  10  in
helping  the  students  to  understand  the  behavior  of  the  various  mechanisms  and  forces  acting  on
In addition, the laboratory is also equipped with various vibration measuring instruments
for computing the vibration characteristics of a machine or structures and equipment for vibrating
the  machine  or  structures  in  order  to  finds  its  resonance  characteristics  in  various  environmental
conditions.  Following  equipment  are  available
characteristics of elements to structures.
for  measuring  and/or
16. Electro Mechanical (EM) Energy Conversion Laboratory
In  order  to  familiarize  students  to  Electrical  Machines  properties  &  characteristics,  IIT
Jodhpur has established “Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory” and has continually
been developing the potential of its lab facility. In this lab, state-of-the-art “Electrical Engineering”
facilitates  the  students  to  empower  their  potential  by  familiarizing  themselves  with  the
fundamental  of  electro-mechanical  energy  conversion  process,  including  several  practical  &
industrial applications of machines in true applicable environment. This lab occupies conventional
as  well  as  modern  equipment  to  fulfil  the  basic  and  modern  technological  requirements  with
continual developing efforts.
17. Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn about the following:
1.  Analyses and evaluation of experimental data
2.  Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data
3.  How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system considering
various technical aspects,  heat exchanger, thermal energy storage, receiver, wind catcher,
volumetric air receiver.
In addition to the above, this laboratory aims at generating innovative ideas in students by
promoting  the  design  of  experiments  and  small  scale  projects.  At  present  in  the  fluid  mechanics
laboratory are conducted experiments on losses in pipes (smooth/rough) and fittings (e.g. valves,
bends), comparison between different flow meters, particle image velocimetry technique, Hot-wire
anemometer,  labscale  sub-sonic  wind  tunnel  for-  pressure  distribution  around  a  cylinder/air-foil,
lift  and  drag  balance,  boundary  layer  development,  weather  monitoring.  Furthermore  the  lab
provides training on standard software, such as, CFAST for fire simulation.
The Heat Transfer Laboratory is equipped with the demonstration of various thermometry
techniques, heat exchange system, ventilation system, Natural and forced convection system, heat
conduction  unit  for  different  materials,  lab  and  industrial-scale  solar  water  heater  system,  and
thermal radiation unit. All these equipment are installed with respective software.
For testing, calibration and research purpose in these laboratories, various equipment such
as Laser Doppler Velocimeter with Particle Analyzer, pressure and temperature calibration, blower
with  variable  flow,  pressure  transducers,  differential  pressure  transducers,  turbine  test  rig,  turbo-
machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc., have been procured.
Moreover, multi-purpose test set up is being indigenously designed and the components /
sub-systems involved are being fabricated locally. This system aims at investigation and evaluation
of solar thermal sub-systems such as volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat
exchange  systems  and  their  simultaneous  operation.  Devices  such  as  earth  air  heat  exchange
system,  wind  catcher,  and  air-cooled  heat  exchange  systems  are  being  fabricated  and  tested  for
18. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
High  Temperature  Solar  Thermal  Laboratory  is  one  of  the  specialized  laboratories  at  IIT
Jodhpur. The aim of this laboratory is to:
1.  Address  fundamental  aspects  of  fluid  flow  and  heat  transfer  related  problems,  like,  dust
2.  Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar thermal systems.
Some of the sub-systems being designed and analyzed in this laboratory are:
(a) Open Volumetric Air Receiver for process heat applications
(b) Compact heat exchanger
(c)  Solar Convective Furnace
This  laboratory  includes  test  facility,  such  as,  Solar  Air  Tower  Simulator  (SATS)  facility,
advanced research grade equipment like Laser Doppler Velocimetry. SATS facility includes, open
volumetric  air  receiver,  thermal  energy  storage,  air-water  heat  exchanger  and  is  being  extended
with solar convective furnace.
19. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics Laboratory
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of different types of
materials to find out their mechanical properties like modulus of elasticity, tensile and compressive
strength, stress strain curve, bending properties, hardness etc. The lab is equipped with following
1.  Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN
2.  Rockwell Tester
3.  Brinell Tester
4.  Vickers Tester
5.  Poldi Hardness Tester
6.  Portable hardness tester
20. Renewable Energy Laboratory
To  resolve  most  daunting  challenge  of  this  world—energy  needs—and  also  our  nation’s
heavy reliance on fossil fuels, Renewable Energy Laboratory (REL) promotes rigorous and objective
empirical  research  at  IIT  Jodhpur  on  issues  related  to  energy  and  environment.  REL  focuses  on
designing, testing, and disseminating renewable and efficient energy system. The mission of REL is
to help these technologies to realize their full potential to contribute to environmentally sustainable
development in industrial and developing countries. In the renewable energy field, expert faculty
and students at this Laboratory are currently striving to create an innovative system to efficiently
harness  energy  from  sunlight  and  wind  power.  REL  has  computer  interfaced  systems  and
approximately  30  students  can  work  at  a  time.  Students  are  the  greatest  resource  of  REL  and  IIT
Jodhpur has made substantial commitment to the area of renewable energy and been providing all
required  resources  to  execute  a  viable  plan  and  innovative  research  at  REL.  One  aspect  of  the
evolution  of  REL  is  the  development  of  collaborative  partnership  with  other  academic  and
industrial  groups.  In  the  near  future,  it  will  be  a  hub  for  training  and  public-private  sector
collaboration. Recently, the lab has started a consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D India Pvt.
Ltd.,  on  the  prototyping  of  microbial  fuel  cells.  In  addition,  the  lab  has  started  work  on  data
collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW in Rajasthan and Gujarat.
The Renewable Energy Laboratory uses the following equipment:
1.  Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent magnets
~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc.
2.  PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell,
3.  Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with solar
altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid
inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4.  Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications.
21. Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has selected the IIT Jodhpur campus
site  as  one  of  their  solar  radiation  centers.  Solar  radiation  measurement  (Global  and  Direct),
Humidity, Ambient temperature, Rain gauge and wind speed measurement are carried out at this
center and the data is transmitted via a satellite link to the MNRE nodal center C-WET in Chennai.
The instruments in this laboratory are powered by a couple of solar panels. The data collected from
this  center  enables  the  solar  resource  assessment  required  for  the  setting  up  of  solar  thermal  and
solar  photovoltaic  power  plants  as  outlined  in  the  Jawaharlal  Nehru  National  Solar  Mission
22. Biomolecular Information Processing laboratory
This laboratory is involved in the understanding of information processing by various kinds
of  biomolecules  and  related  synthetic  molecules.  The  process  involves  in  using  a  single  molecule
first and then a group of molecule on a given interface. The interaction among the molecules in a
given external stimuli will help us understanding the communication among them.
23. Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS/SQUID)
IIT  Jodhpur  has  created  an  excellent  facility  in  the  field  of  material  characterization.
Recently  an  additional  dimension  has  been  added  to  it  by  procuring  magnetic  property
measurement system (MPMS). MPMS (SQUID) is getting installed in coming few months. This will
provide  a  wide  temperature  2  K  –  1000  K  range  for  both  DC  and  AC  magnetic  measurements  in
conjunction  with  field  dependent  magnetic  measurements.  Such  measurements  will  help  to
understand magnetic properties and associated spin dynamics in magnetic materials.
24. Materials Analysis Laboratory
The  research  focuses  on  the  development  of  novel  materials  for  different  applications
including materials for energy generation and storage. The current work includes the development
of  solution  processable  CIGS  compound  semiconductor  materials  for  solar  cell  applications  and
transition metal oxide based materials for lithium ion batteries and supercapacitor applications. The
laboratory is equipped with synthesis of bulk and thin films techniques such as sputtering, sol-gel
process  assembly  etc.,  and  numerous  characterization  techniques  such  as  X-ray  diffraction,
Scanning  electron  microscope,  Optical  spectroscopic  techniques,  LCR  meter,  ferroic  measurement
system for bulk samples etc.
In addition, the group is also focusing on the development of multifunctional materials for
different applications such as solar selective coatings, ferroic materials for high frequency absorbing
system, and magnetic particles for different applications. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-
the-art facilities to carry out thermal analysis, electrochemical analysis, surface morphology studies,
separation techniques for chemicals, electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove box etc.
25. Physics Laboratory
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students with experiential
knowledge  in  basic  physics.  This  laboratory  has  state-of-the-art  facilities  including  specific
equipment  and  offers  different  experiments  in  Mechanics,  Waves,  Electricity,  Magnetism,  and
Optics. The lab has facilities for experimenting with Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, and Michelson
The  Institute  has  a  modern  Computer  Center,  presently  running  on  a  gigabit  LAN  with
1Gbps internet bandwidth. It is the nucleus of all computing activities for Students, Staff Members
and Faculty Members. Several terminals running on Windows and GNU/Linux operating systems
across the campus provide access to several licensed software, like MatLab, Mathematica, Cadence,
Mentor  Graphic, Ansys,  PSCAD  and  Solidworks.  A  802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi  service  is  enabled  in  the
academic and residential areas. Also, the Computer Centre hosts a High Performance Computing
cluster for scientific research.
The Institute has five key resources at the Computer Center, namely, the Linux Operating
System,  SVN  Server,  GIT  Server,  OwnCloud  and  various  licensed  application  software  that  are
used for academic and research purpose, have made it possible to offer the various resources and
The  Institute  extends  three  facilities,  namely,  networking,  computing,  Internet  access,  and
LDAP and Active Directory ID facilities through its Computer Center.
High Performance Computing
Highly equipped laboratory facilities
The  Institute  offers  services  like  FTP,  LDAP,  HPC,  Web  Hosting,  Network  Connectivity,
VPN, EduRoam, and News Group, through its Computer Center.
The Learning Hub, i.e., the library supports teaching and research activities of the Institute by
facilitating  acquisition,  organization  and  dissemination  of  knowledge  resources,  and  also  by
providing  library  &  information  services  to  IIT  Jodhpur  community.  The  Learning  Hub  on  the
Permanent  Campus  of  the  Institute is  sited  pre-eminently at  the  entrance  of  the  academic  area  of
the Institute, stands as the tallest structure on the campus scaling over 15m from the ground; keeps
time  for  the  entire  campus  with  a  4-way  clock  at  the  clock  tower,  only  the  third  in  the  city  of
Jodhpur. It functions with the guidance of Library Committee, which has representatives from all
Departments, and Student Representatives.
The Learning Hub, Library Building in Permanent Campus, IIT Jodhpur
The  Library  has  a  rich  and  growing  collection  of  13,000  volumes  of  books  (approx.),  which
include  textbooks, and books  of  general and  reference nature.  A wide  range  of  scholarly  journals
and databases are also subscribed from various sources for the academic and research purposes of
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided by the Library to its registered users.
1.  Member & Circulation Services,
2.  Orientation & User Education,
3.  Borrowing Facility,
4.  Reference & Information Service,
5.  Course Reserves,
6.  Current Awareness Service,
7.  Inter Library Loan & Document Supply, and
8.  Digital Library Facility & Services.
Digital resources are accessible through the Library website, which is a comprehensive site
maintained  by  Library.  These  include  the  Library  subscribed  resources,  online  catalogue,  lists  of
useful  resources  accessible  in  the  open  domain  like  the  open  access  journals,  books,  repositories,
video lectures, open courseware. These resources are continuously updated.
Also, Library maintains a portal for hosting bibliographic listing of the Faculty Publications.
Additionally, a course guide portal has also been developed and maintained by Library, wherein,
resources i.e., books available in Library, subscribed journals, resources accessible in open domain
are  listed  and  linked,  course-wise.  This  platform  is  very  useful for  the  students  in finding  topical
and  course-wise  resources.  Library  also  provides  remote  access  to  the  subscribed  scholarly
resources and anti-plagiarism checking.
Stacks & General Section
Course Reserves & Digital Library Section
Appearing below are some vital statistics of Library for FY 2018-19:
a.  Number of titles added
b.  Number of volumes added
Number of Scholarly Resources subscribed (For CY 2018)
a.  Fulltext resources
b.  Research databases
Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requested fulfilled
a.  Document supply of articles & research papers
b.  Books arranged on Inter Library Loans
a.  Number of book check-outs
b.  Number of book check-ins
c.  Number of book renewals
d.  Number of book recalls
Details of Journal Resources
Library has licensed the following journal resources in this year, for teaching, research and
IEL (IEEE) Online Digital Library,
Institute for Studies in Industrial Development (ISID) Database,
private study of its academic community.
1.  Association of Computing Machinery Digital Library,
2.  American Chemical Society Journals,
3.  American Physical Society Journals,
4.  American Society for Mechanical Engineers Digital Library,
9.  Nature Journal,
10.  Oxford University Press Journals,
11.  Elsevier Science Journals,
12.  Society of Industrial & Applied Mathematics Journals, and
13.  Springer Journals.
Also,  the  Library  is  a  core  member  of  the  eShodhSindhu:  Consortium  for  Higher  Education
Electronic Resources, operated by INFLIBNET Center, Gandhinagar, through which subscriptions to
major  resources  are  fulfilled.  Besides,  the  Library  is  a  member  of  DEveloping  Libraries  NETwork
(DELNET), New Delhi through which the Library meets its Inter Library Loan requirements.
Library  subscribes  to  Plagiarism  Detection  Tool  and  Remote  Access  Tool  for  its  users.
Orientation  sessions  and  Library  Instruction  sessions  for  Students  are  conducted  by  the  Library
Staff Members during registration of new students and on demand.
Primary Health Center
IIT  Jodhpur  provides  round  the  clock  health  care  facilities  to  Students,  Faculty  and  Staff
Members of the Institute, at its Permanent Campus. This fully equipped and self-sufficient facility is
run by M/s. Goyal Hospital & Research Center Private Limited, Jodhpur. Presently, the following
facilities available at the Primary Health Center (PHC).
1.  Qualified Medical Doctors,
2.  Regular Visits of Specialist Doctors,
3.  Paramedical Staff,
4.  Physiotherapy Unit,
6.  24 Hours Emergency Room, and
7.  an ICU Ambulance.
Besides  this fully  functional,  round-the-clock,  ISO  Certified, Primary Health  Center  (PHC)
in  the  campus,  IIT  Jodhpur  is  fortunate  to  have  in  the  city  an  all  new  state-of-the-art  All  India
Institute  of  Medical  Sciences,  the  associated  Hospitals  of  the  S.  N.  Medical  College  and  some
specialized  hospitals.  The  Institute  has  agreements  with  a  few  prominent  hospitals  for  priority
treatment to its employees and students. These include: Goyal Hospital and Research Center, Medi
Pulse Hospital, and Vasan Eye Care Hospital.
The  Health  Center  coordinates  and  supervises  the  treatment  of  students,  employees,  and
their  dependents  during  hospitalization  in  other  hospitals  that  are  empaneled  by  the  Institute,  to
provide  in-patient  care. On  request,  the  Health Center  extends  its  health  care  services  to  Institute
visitors  during  their  stay  in  the  residential  campus.  Under  emergency  circumstances  medical
services are also extended to the non-IIT Jodhpur community residents in the residential campus.
Details  like  patient  records,  medicine  procurement/disbursement,  assets,  equipment  of  Health
Center are all computerized.
Sports and games facilities to students are provided on campus. Facilities for playing Basket
Ball, Volley Ball, Cricket, Lawn Tennis and Table Tennis have been developed. Jogging and running
track is available. There is a modest badminton facility in every hostel. Development of facilities for
few more sports are underway. Students also enjoy a gymnasium facility at the residential campus.
Lawn Tennis Court in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur
Basket Ball Court in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur
An SC/ST Cell for ensuring the proper utilization and adaptation of reservation policies and
guidelines  issued  by  the  Government  of  India,  is  functional  at  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  Cell  deals  with
matters  related  to  grievances  received  from  SC/ST  and  OBC  employees  and  students  in  the
Institute.  The  Cell  acts  as  a  communicator  between  the  Institute  and  the  Ministry  of  Human
Research  and  Development  in  matters  related  to  SC/ST  and  OBC  students  and  employees  in  the
Institute.  IIT  Jodhpur  has  adopted  the  reservation  policy  while  selecting  the  students  for  MCM
scholarship. In addition, a substantial number of SC students whose total family income is limited
to  Rs.  6  lakhs  per  annum,  are  deriving  the  benefit  of  Central  Sector  Scholarship  of  Top  Class
Education available from the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.
The  Women  Cell,  IIT  Jodhpur,  functions  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  contained  in
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The
following are some activities organized by the Women Cell during FY 2018-19.
International Women’s Day Celebration
The  2019  International  Women’s  Day  was  celebrated  at  the  Indian  Institute  of  Technology
Jodhpur on 8 March 2019. The program was organized by the Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur. Dr. Kshema
Prakash, Convenor, Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, introduced the program to the guest gathering. The
event  had  an  invited  talk  by  Ms.  Nisha  Johari,  Director  of  Marketing  and  Product  Development,
Johari  Digital  Healthcare  Ltd.,  Jodhpur.  She  shared  her  life  experiences  as  a  woman  entrepreneur
and  her  journey  in  evolving  the  company.  A  Panel  Discussion  on  the  theme  “Think  equal,  build
smart, innovate for change”, focusing on innovative ways in which we can advance gender equality
and the empowerment of women, followed the invited talk. The panel discussion was moderated by
Dr.  Kirankumar  R.  Hiremath,  Assistant  Professor,  IIT  Jodhpur  with  panel  members  as  Ms.  Nisha
Johari, Director of Marketing and Product Development, Johari Digital Healthcare Ltd., Jodhpur, Dr.
(Ms.)  Lipika  Dey,  Principal  Scientist,  TCS  Innovation  Labs,  New  Delhi, Prof.  Santanu  Chaudhury,
Director,  IIT  Jodhpur,  and  faculty  members,  namely  Dr.  Samanwita  Pal,  Dr.  Sushmita  Jha,  Dr.
Rajlaxmi  Chouhan,  and  Dr.  Kirankumar  R.  Hiremath.  Prayrika  Sharma,  3rd year  B.  Tech.  student
recited  a  poem  written  by  her  on  this  occasion.  Dr.  (Ms.)  Lipika  Dey,  Principal  Scientist,  TCS
Innovation Labs, New Delhi read out a play based on a woman’s struggle between new ambitions
and  old  restrains.  Thereafter,  Professor  Santanu  Chauhuri,  Director,  IIT  Jodhpur,  welcomed  the
gathering  and  shared  his  thoughts  on  the  occasion.  In  closing  Professor  Kirankumar  Hiremath,
Member, Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, proposed a vote of thanks.
Panel Discussion during International Women’s Day Celebration
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury presenting the memento to the Chief Guest
Ms. Nisha Johari
Students Gymkhana is the organized system of self-governance of the activities of the Student
Body at the Institute level. The Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur is established to:
(1)  Uphold the spirit of cooperation, fraternity and social bonding among all Students of the Institute,
(2)  Provide a platform for organizing themselves, undertake self-governance, and organize creative
activities for the all-rounded mental, physical, social and cultural growth of students.
Similarly, the student activities at the hostel level are organised through Students Regatta.
The Students of the Institute associate and establish the Constitution of the Students Gymkhana
in keeping with the tenets of the Gymkhana, and agree to abide by it in all walks of life during their
student life. The Students Gymkhana hosts its activities through seven Student Societies, and in turn,
each Society comprises of several clubs. A Society is a thematic community of students, furthering the
cause of the theme among the students. These societies fulfil the varied interests of the students and
contribute to their holistic development.
These seven societies are:
(1)  Sports & Games Society,
(2)  Cultural & Literary Society,
(3)  Design & Arts Society,
(4)  Science & Technology Society,
(5)  Academics & Careers Society,
(6)  Campus Life Society, and
(7)  Elected Representatives Society.
Under  the  overall  leadership  of  the  General  Secretary,  Students  Gymkhana,  and  with  the
overall  guidance  of  Associate  Dean  (Students),  these  societies  are  run  by  students  with  help  of
Student Secretaries and Faculty Advisors for each society.
(1) Sports & Games Society
Sports & Games produce remarkable athletes, and can nurture humble human beings, who have
(1) The grace of learning to face victory with humility and defeat with grace; and
(2) The force multiplier effect of teamwork.
The Sports & Games Society has been formed with an intent to promote this spirit, by providing
to  the  campus  community  facilities  for  sports  &  games.  This  Society  aims  to  inculcate  this  as  essential
part  of  every  student’s  life.  This  society  deals with all  the  sports (formal  physical  activities  carried  out
under  an  agreed  set  of  formal  rules with  the intent  of  competition,  self-enjoyment  or  a combination  of
these intents) and games (informal physical activities carried out under a mutually agreed set of informal
rules with the intent of recreation) at the Institute level. It is headed by the Student Secretary (Sports &
Games Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Sports and Games; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Sports & Games Society) of all the Hostels.
The  Sports  &  Games  Society  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Students  Gymkhana  formally  adopts  all  Student
Sports & Games, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT Students Sports Meet. These sports include
Aquatics,  Athletics,  Badminton,  Basketball,  Bridge,  Chess,  Cricket,  Football,  Gymnastics,  Hockey,
Kabaddi, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Table Tennis, Volleyball and Weightlifting.
(2) Culture & Literary Society
Student  Culture  &  Literary  activities  produce  remarkable  citizens  of  the  country,  and  can
nurture knowledgeable and skilled human beings, who have internalised:
(1) The diverse cultures of India with equal respect for all; and
(2) The richness of traditional & modern literature of India with desire to share with others.
With  this  intent  of  promoting  this  spirit,  Students  Gymkhana  of  IIT  Jodhpur  provides  to  the
campus community facilities for culture & literary activities. The Student Culture & Literary Society of
IIT Jodhpur aims to inculcate this as essential part of every student's life.
This  society  deals  with  all  the  cultural  and  literary  activities  at  the  Institute  level.  It  is  headed  by  the
Student Secretary (Cultural & Literary Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Cultural and Literary activities; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Cultural & Literary Society) of all the Hostels.
The Cultural & Literary Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all Student
Culture  &  Literary  activities,  which  are  included  in  the  annual  Inter-IIT  level  and  other  national  level
Students Culture & Literary Festivals. These include Student Music Activities, Student Dance Activities,
Student Drama Activities, Student Film Activities, Student Literature Activities, Student Quiz Activities,
Student Book Activities and Student Newsletter Activities as a Club each.
(3) Design & Arts Society
Design  &  Arts  activities  produce  skilful  citizens  of  the  country,  and  can  nurture  artistic  and
skilled human beings, who have internalised:
(1) The diverse creative arts & crafts of India with equal respect for all; and
(2) The richness of traditional & modern designs of India with desire to share with others.
With  this  intent  of  promoting  this  spirit,  Students  Gymkhana  of  IIT  Jodhpur  provides  to  the
campus  community facilities  for  culture  &  literary  activities.  The  Student  Design  & Arts  Society of  IIT
Jodhpur aims to inculcate this as essential part of every student's life.
This society deals with all the design and arts activities at the Institute level. It is headed by the Student
Secretary (Design & Arts Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Teams of the various design and arts activities; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Design & Arts Society) of all the Hostels.
The  Design  &  Arts  Society  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Students  Gymkhana  formally  adopts  all  Student
design  and  arts  activities,  which  are  included  in  the  annual  Inter-IIT  level  and  other  national  level
Students Design & Arts Festivals. These include Student Animation Activities, Student Design Activities,
Student  Fine  Arts  Activities,  Student  FM  Radio  Activities,  Student  Photography,  Student  Media,  and
Student Cinematography as a Club each.
(4) Science & Technology Society
Science & Technology activities produce skilful citizens of the country, and can nurture artistic
and skilled human beings, who have internalised:
(1) The intriguing magic of science and importance of basic, applied and targeted research; and
(2) The challenges of undertaking technology development for the good of the nation.
Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur intends to promote this inquisitiveness towards science and
technology,  by  providing  to  the  campus  community  facilities  for  Science  &  Technology  activities.  The
Student Science & Technology Society of IIT Jodhpur aims to inculcate this as essential training of every
student at the Institute.
This society deals with all the science and technology activities at the Institute level. It is  headed
by the Student Secretary (Science & Technology Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Science and Technology activities; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Science & Technology Society) of all the Hostels.
The  Science  &  Technology  Society  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Students  Gymkhana  formally  adopts  all
Student  Science  &  Technology  activities,  which  are  included  in  the  annual  Inter-IIT  level  and  other
national  level  Students  Science  &  Technology  Festivals.  These  include  Student  Automobile  Activities,
Student  Robotics  Activities,  Student  Astronomy  Activities,  Student  Aeromodeling  Activities,  Student
Science  Activities,  Student  Electronics  Activities  and  Student  Computer  Programming  Activities  as  a
(5) Academics & Careers Society
Academics & Careers are two basic premises of presence of student at the Institute. Each student
is expected to internalise:
(1)  A basic competence (knowledge, skill and attitude) in the discipline of the Program registered for;
(2)  Clarity on distinction between jobs and careers, and prepare for a planned career in the discipline
chosen for the study.
Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur wishes to provide a platform to students to represent their
desires,  difficulties  and  concerns  during  the  process  of  education,  by  providing  a  mechanism  of
representation through the Academics & Careers Society. The Student Academics & Careers Society of
IIT  Jodhpur  aims  to  actively  contribute  to  providing  inputs  on  academic  programs,  curricula,  teaching
and infrastructure through the Office of Academics of the Institute.
This  society  deals  with  all  the  student  academics  and  careers  related  activities  at  the  Institute
level. It is headed by the Student Secretary (Academics & Careers Society), and its membership consists
(i)  Captains of all Institute Clubs of the various student Academics and Careers related activities; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Academics & Careers Society) of all the Hostels.
The  Academics  &  Careers  Society  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Students  Gymkhana  formally  adopts  all
Student  Academics  &  Careers  activities,  which  are  included  in  the  annual  Inter-IIT  level  and  other
national level Students Academics & Careers Events. These include Student Career Planning Activities,
Student  Communications  Development  Activities,  Student  Entrepreneurship  Skills  Development
Activities and Student Personality Development Activities as a Club each.
(6) Campus Life Society
Campus  Fraternity  of  students  needs  to  build the  personal  side  of  students  of life,  beyond  the
purpose of building academic side of life at  the Institute. Each student is expected to internalise issues
(1) The basic needs of shelter and food; and
(2) The safety, health and hygiene.
To provide a platform to students to get real-life experiences and to improve quality of holistic
life of students on campus, the Campus Life Society was formed. Also, Students Gymkhana and Students
Regatta of IIT Jodhpur actively help in providing the needed interactions and experiences to be able to
make  considered  decision  to  choose  and  prepare  for  a  career  after  graduating  from  the  Institute.  The
Student Campus Life Society actively works with the Office of Students of the Institute.
This  society  deals  with  all  the  student  campus  life  related  activities  at  the  Institute  level.  It  is
headed by the Student Secretary (Campus Life Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Clubs of the various student Campus Life related activities;
(ii)  Hostel Secretaries (Campus Life Society) of all the Hostels;
(iii) Faculty Member Mentors;
(iv) Staff Member Mentors; and
(v)  Senior Student Mentors.
The  Campus  Life  Society  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Students  Gymkhana  formally  adopts  all  Student
Campus  Fraternity  activities  at  the  Institute,  including  Student  Legacy  Activities,  Student  City  Tourist
Services, Student Dining Services, Student Informal Events, Student Picnics and Social Service Activities
as a Club each.
(7) Elected Representatives Society
Student Elected Representatives form a critical interface of students with the Institute, to better
the  situation  on  all  fronts  related  to  study  &  living  on  the  campus,  and  to  learn  &  practice  the
constitutional  way  of  conducting  oneself  in  &  as  a  community  of  students.  The  Student  Elected
Representatives Society actively works with the Dean (Students).
This  society  deals with all  the  student  matters  specific  to  each  group  (program-wise  and  year-
wise) at the Institute level. Student Elections and Student Conduct activities are the major activities of the
Student  Elected  Representatives  Society.  It  is  headed  by  the  Student  Secretary  of  the  Student  Elected
Representatives  Society  (SERS),  and  its  membership  consists  of  all  Student  Elected  Representatives
elected from each group of students.
The  Students  Gymkhana  of  the  Institute  organizes  events  with  dual  purpose.  On  the  one
hand,  these  events  help  engage  students  in  creative  work  during  their  leisure  hours  and  thereby
build skills and interests in them. And, on the other side, these events help students to self-organise
themselves and provide platforms for others to excel.
Besides  celebrating  the  Gymkhana  Day,  the  events  organized  by  the  Students  Gymkhana
Student Fests & Events
can be seen in two streams, namely:
1. Inter-Institute Festivals and Tournaments; and
2. Intra-Institute Festivals and Championships.
Like every year, during FY 2018-19 too, the students were successful in nurturing a culture
filled  with  energy  and  initiative.  They  have  organized  events  which  served  as  a  medium  of
communication  and  bonding  amongst  themselves.  Major  festivals  like  Janmashtami,  Ganesh
Chaturthi, Navratri, Diwali, Sankranti, Eid and Holi were celebrated with great enthusiasm. Sports
activities were also regularly conducted to encourage sportsmanship, which were supported by the
IGNUS,  the  annual  technical-cultural-social  festival  of  IIT  Jodhpur  was  organized  at  IIT
Jodhpur during 21-24 February, 2019. The technofest included several technical events  which was
attended  by  representations  from  various  institutions.  The  event  also  included  performances  by
various National and International artists.
Glimpse of IGNUS ‘19
During the Financial Year 2018-19, students of the Institute received their share of accolades.
(1)  Inter-IIT  Tech  Meet  2018:  A  contingent  of  32  students  participated  in  the  Inter-IIT  TechMeet
2018 held in IIT Bombay, and won one Gold Medal and two Bronze Medals. The Gold Medal
was  won  in  the  event  BETiC  Innovation  Challenge  by  the  team  comprising  Dhruv  Krishna,
Aman  Goel,  Pushpank  Katare,  Deepak  Arjariya,  Subham  Suresh  Gattani,  Bhaskar  Vijay,
Mukesh  Sharma,  and  Ashutosh  Pandey.  The  Bronze  Medal  was  won  in  the  Campus
Sustainability Challenge by the team mentored by Dr. Ritu Gupta, comprising Kuldeep Singh
Jangir,  Shreyas  Mahajan,  Vaibhav  Mishra,  Aksh  Chordia,  Nikhil  Srivastava,  Aryan  Singh,
Shivang Khandelwal,  Sanchit  Tapadiya, Piyush Kumar,  and  Saksham  Sanjay  Banga. Another
Bronze Medal was won in the Coding Hackathon by the team  comprising Ajat Prabha, Sahil
Harish Batra, Abhinav Suthar, and Saksham Sanjay Banga. The overall position of IIT Jodhpur
in the TechMeet was 10th among all the participating IITs.
(2)  DST  &  TI  India  Innovation  Challenge  Design  Contest  (IICDC)  2018:  Two  of  our  teams  have
qualified  for  the  quarterfinals  of  the  DST  &  TI  India  Innovation  Challenge  Design  Contest
(IICDC)  2018.  These  teams  comprise  Eashan  Jindal,  Ankit  Mittal,  Arham  Chordia,  Akshay
Goel, and Animesh Kumar Singh (for their project on automated quality control of crops), and
Kanani Alishkumar Hareshkumar, Chakshu Gupta, Siddhant Shrikant Saoji, Sumanth U, and
Srijan Agarwal  (for  their  project  on  Netra  -  Indoor  navigator  for  the  visually  impaired).  This
edition  of  IICDC  witnessed  participation  of  26,511  students  from  10,146  teams  from  all  the
states  of  India.  Our  two  teams  are  among  the  346  teams  who  will  be  moving  ahead  to  the
(3)  ACM  ICPC  Regional  Rounds:  Three  teams  from  our  Institute  qualified  for  the  ACM  ICPC
Regional  Rounds,  out  of  which  the  team  comprising  Anurag  Shah,  Srijan  Agarwal,  and
Shambhu Singh have received a rank 30 in the Regional rounds.
(4)  IEEE Signal Processing Society Travel Grants 2018: Two of our PhD students received $1000 as
a part of the IEEE Signal Processing Society Travel Grant to attend two flagship international
conferences  of  the  IEEE  Signal  Processing  Society.  Hiteshi  Jain  (PhD  Student,  CSE)  was
awarded  the  travel  grant  for  attending  IEEE  International  Conference  on  Image  Processing
(ICIP)  2018  in  Greece,  and  Deepak  (PhD  Student,  EE)  received  the  travel  grant  for  attending
IEEE Global Conference on Signal and Information Processing (GlobalSIP) 2018 in California,
(5)  Aditya  Raj,  Ph.D.  Student,  working  under  the  supervision  of  Anil  Kumar  Tiwari,  Assistant
Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, has been selected for the prestigious Newton
Bhabha  Ph.D.  Placement  program  2019.  Under  this  program,  he  will  work  as  a  visiting
researcher  at  Kingston  University,  London,  under  the  supervision  of  Professor  Maria  G.
Martini, for a period of four months. His visit is funded by the Department of Biotechnology
(DBT), India and the British Council, UK.
(6)  A  team  of  second  year  students  namely  Anshul  Ahuja,  Aksh  Chordia  and  Ayush  Saxena
bagged the 3rd prize at the Microsoft AXLE 2019 organized at Bengaluru. In their project they
developed  a  distributed  IoT-based  solution  which  can  be  deployed  in  different  rooms  of  a
building and acts as an early warning system and takes precautionary measures on detection
of  disasters.  For  instance,  if  an  earthquake  is  detected,  it  will  shutdown  the  water,  gas  and
power  supplies.  They  also  developed  an  application  that  could  predict  and  diagnose  skin
(7)  Megha  Singh,  Ph.D.  Student,  working  with  Abdul  Gafoor  Shaikh,  Department  of  Electrical
Engineering,  won  the  Best  Paper  Award  in  the  track  Power  Systems  and  Smart  Grid  for  the
research paper “Location of Defective Bearing in three-phase Induction Motor using Stockwell
Transform  and  Support  Vector  Machine”  at  the  2nd  International  Conference  on  Energy,
Power and Environment (towards Smart Technology) organized by NIT, Meghalaya, during 1-
2 June 2018.
(8)  Tushar  Shinde,  Ph.D.  Student,  working  with  Anil  Kumar  Tiwari,  Assistant  Professor,
Department of Electrical Engineering, has been awarded Winner's Prize of $1500 in 3 Minute
Thesis  Competition  for  a  compelling  oration  on  his  research  work  at  the  IEEE  International
Conference on Image Processing (ICIP 2018), held during 7-10 October 2018 at Athens, Greece.
(9)  Abhinav  Srivastava,  Ph.D.  student,  working  with  Ananya  Debnath,  Assistant  Professor,
Department of Chemistry, received Best Poster Prize from Royal Society of Chemistry, for his
research  work  at  the  International  conference  on  Computational  Fluids  (CompFlu-2018)  held
during 06-09 December 2018 at Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee.
(10)  Harshkooshal  Kamlesh  Gandhi,  II  Year  B.Tech.  (Electrical  Engineering)  Student  has  been
awarded Excellence in poster presentation. He has been given a Certificate of Appreciation and
Rs. 10,000/- for the paper titled Asymmetric Pulse Propagation through Time-dynamic Gain-
loss  Assisted  Media  jointly  authored  by  Piyali  Biswas,  Bishnu  P.  Pal  and  Professor  Somnath
Ghosh.  It  was  presented  to  him  during  the  international  conference  PHOTONICS  2018:  The
International Conference on Fiber Optics and Photonics, 12-15 December 2018 at IIT Delhi.
Student Counseling Service
The  Student  Counseling  Service  is  an  integral  part  of  IIT  Jodhpur  since  2008.  Every  year,  it
strives to ensure that every student gets to know the Institute in intricate details and to help absorb
all that the opportunities that the Institute creates. It works towards making the transition of new
Students from their homes to the Institute a memorable one. The objective of Student Counseling
Service is to provide friendly support to the new Students for their well-being during their stay on
the campus and for their personal & professional developments. In essence, the Student Counseling
Service promotes the development of students along three aspects, namely:
(1)  Academic:  It  provides  information  about  different  academic  programs  of  the  Institute,  and
suggests efficient time management and study skills,
(2)  Extra-Curricular: It strives to develop talents in students, and encourages them to discover their
extra-curricular interests/hobbies. Also, it provides an interface with the Institute activities, and
provides a platform for interaction with the Institute; and
(3)  Personal:  It  provides  a  cushion  against  homesickness,  and  assists  in  adjusting  to  the  new
environment  (including  concerns  and  difficulties  arising  during  their  stay  at  the  Institute)  by
providing  personalised guidance. Also, it  provides  psycho-education  and  confidential  referral
services to students.
The  Student  Counseling  Service  is  headed  by  a  Faculty  Member,  as  the  Chairperson  of  the
Student  Counseling  Service  Committee,  and  ably  supported  by  Faculty  Members,  Staff  Members
and  senior  students.  A  full-time  Student  Counselor  plays  the  role  of  growth  coach,  well-being
moderator and psychological counselor. Besides, the Student Counseling Service strives to:
(1)  Maintain a ragging-free campus;
(2)  Organize Orientation Program for new students to acquaint them with the Institute;
(3)  Organize  lectures  and  trainings  on:  (a)  Career  counseling,  (b)  Stress  management,  (c)  Time
management,  (d)  Health  care  and  hygiene,  (e)  Vocational  training,  (f)  Relationships,  (g)  Cope
with homesickness, (h) Addiction and others, and (i) motivational lectures by eminent speakers;
(4)  Address  academic  issues  of  students,  e.g.,  poor  academic  performance,  basic  IT  skills  and
language skills of students from non-English background; and
(5)  Organize  events  for  encouraging  interaction  among  students  of  different  years,  and  Staff  and
The following are some activities organized by the Student Counseling Service during FY 2018-19.
The  Orientation  Program  2018  was  organised  during  23-29  July  2018.  A  week  full  of  fun-
filled activities welcoming the students to college and making their transition from school to college
smooth.  Orientation  week  included  motivating  talks  from  guest  speakers  Dr.  Arvind  Bhatt  and
Smita Majumdar, a fun-filled trip to Mehrangarh Fort, a social drive to various government school
in  villages  near  Jodhpur.  Arvind  Bhatt,  Director,  Samvaad,  advised  students  to  not  focus  on
problems  but  on  selections.  Compliment  others,  don’t  criticize  them  and  welcome  criticism  from
your well-wishers, he said. Student Counseling Service in coordination with Border Security Force
(BSF) organized a trip to Jaisalmer and Indo-Pak border outpost during 7 August 2018, 18 August
2018 and 23 September 2018 for the newly joined students. Amit Lodha, IPS Officer, addressed these
students during their visit and inspired them to be a patriotic citizen of India.
Welcome Program during Orientation Week
Yoga session during Orientation Program
Group photo of Student Counseling Team
Speaker during the Orientation Program
World Gratitude Day Celebration
World  Gratitude  Day  was  organized  at  IIT  Jodhpur  on  21  September  2018.  The  activities
included a carnival with a series of social media posts, rides and open mic.
Campus Mentorship Program
The  Institute  has  launched  a  Campus  Mentors  Program  in  2014,  especially  for  the  new
Students,  wherein  Faculty  Members,  Staff  Members  and  senior  Students  work  towards  helping
each new student towards:
(a) Adjusting well in hostel life away from home and in his academic life, and
(b) Keeping in touch with the student and his/her family members/guardians.
These on-campus friends and guides support and motivate new students in their personal
life and academic life. Also, through this association, Faculty Members get insider’s perspectives in
the lives of students. This interaction will help both the teacher and the taught, to grow together as
one community. Further, the Campus Mentors Program ensures that even parents of students get
opportunities to interact with the Institute.
Student Placement Cell
The  Office  of  Student  Placements  (OSP)  is  moving  ahead  in  developing  Student  Career
Development  Centre,  which  aims  to  create  an  encouraging  atmosphere  for  students  by
providing them ample reminders to build competencies in sync with their dream careers,
thereby ensuring their smooth landing into the professional world. The office performs duties
related  with  creating  awareness  about  career  planning,  soft  skills  enhancement  along  with
coordinating with various companies, their interaction with the students, arranging pre-placement
talks, tests, and interviews and activities related with placements.
In 2018-19, companies in core engineering, information and communication technology, and
banking  sector,  government  and  public  sector  organizations  have  visited  IIT  Jodhpur  for
Total  77  of  our  students  i.e.,  64  B.Tech.  students  and  13  M.Sc.  and  M.Tech.  students, have
been placed with different companies in the year 2018-19.
Details of companies and placements are as below.
B.Tech. Placements for the year 2018– 2019
Number of Students Selected per Branch  Total Number of
Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)
3.  Morgan Stanley
Tata Consultancy Services
8.  MAQ Software
All on Block
Linkbal Inc. (Japan)
SMS Data Tech (Japan)
27.  One Assist
E Value Serve
30.  Aakash Institute
CVRS Education Private Limited
32.  Delhi Rounds
PG Placements for the year 2018 – 2019
Number of Students Selected per Branch
MIC Engineering College
The  Alumni  Relations  Committee  (ARC)  of  the  Institute  envisions  building  a  mutually
beneficial relationship with the Alumni of the Institute by purposeful engagement. The Committee
shall  enable  and  facilitate  activities  that  (1)  Benefit  our  Alumni  (2)  Foster  mutual  trust  and  (3)
Promote professional and technical excellence.
IIT Jodhpur values its Alumni as indispensable partners in its ultimate goal of Technology
development  for  India.  The  Institute  seeks  to  nurture  and  support  its  Alumni  into  a  strong  and
dependable resource. The ARC will facilitate this objective of the Institute and aspires to serve as a
platform,  where  our  Alumni,  the  Institute  and  other  stakeholders  can  work  together  towards
achieving the common goal of nation building.
The following are some activities organized by the Alumni Relations Committee during FY
Alumni Induction & Orientation Program
The  First  Alumni  Induction  and  Orientation  Program  of  Indian  Institute  of  Technology
Jodhpur  took  place  on  the  noon  of  25th  August  2018,  after  the  4th  Convocation  ceremony  of  the
Institute.  Organized  by  the  Alumni  Relations  Committee  (ARC),  this  event  oriented  the  fresh
Graduates of the Institute about the activities of the Committee. Professor C. V. R. Murty, Director, IIT
Jodhpur,  in  his  Induction  Address  encouraged  Alumni  to  reconnect  with  their  alma  mater  and
summarized  mutual  expectations  in  the  Alumni-Institute  relationship.  Professor  Shankar  Manoharan,
Chairman, ARC, spoke about the current focus of the Alumni Relations Committee and its proposed
activities. On this occasion, the First Edition of the Alumni eNewsletter was jointly released by Vijay
Kumar  Paliwal  and  Nithin,  V.,  the  2018  and  2017  President’s  Gold  Medal  Winners  in  B.Tech.,
respectively. Thereafter, a Panel Discussion was organized with the Alumni. The panel comprised of
the Director, IIT Jodhpur, Members of the ARC, and participants from the Alumni in attendance. The
panel responded to several queries on the current and future activities  of the ARC. Also, the panel
encouraged  Alumni  to  participate  actively  in  the  events  organized  for  them  by  the  ARC.  Several
suggestions  and  inputs  from  the  participants  were  received  and  recorded.  Professor  Appala  Naidu
Gandi,  Member  Secretary,  ARC,  thanked  the  Panel  and  all  participants  for  their  presence,  and
proposed the vote of thanks for the program.
Panel Discussion with the Alumni
Group Photo of the Director, ARC office Bearers and Alumni
Ask an Alumnus Session
The  Alumni  Relations  Committee  (ARC)  organized  the  first Ask  an  Alumnus session  at  IIT
Jodhpur  on  9  January  2019. Ayush  Raina,  currently  a  Graduate  Student  at  Carnegie  Mellon
University  (CMU),  interacted  with  students.  Ayush  earned  his  B.Tech.  in  Mechanical  Engineering
from  IIT  Jodhpur  in  2017.  As  a  part  of  the  Integrated  Design  Innovation  Group  at  CMU,  Ayush  is
now working on developing artificial intelligence that can apply human-like problem solving in any
The  audience  benefited  from  his  answers  to  questions  on  his  current  research,  career
prospects,  the  application  process  for  pursuing  Ph.D.  degree from  overseas  universities,  in  general
and  from  Carnegie  Mellon  University,  in  particular,  preparation  for  relevant  exams,  strategies  for
success in a competitive environment and his experience during his internship with Mercedes Benz.
Alumni Relations Committee members and Students during Ask an alumnus session
IIT Jodhpur has, as on 31 March 2019, a total of 964 students registered in various programs
offered  by  the  Institute.  The  table  and  chart  below  depict  the  program-wise  break-up  of  the
registered students in the Institute.
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
Annual Report 2018-19