Technology Innovation and Startup Center (TISC)
Promoting  Deep-Tech Startups
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
Technology Innovation and Startup Center (TISC)
Promoting  Deep-Tech Startups
Deep  Tech is  often  set  apart  by  its  profound  enabling  power,  the  differentiation  it  can  create,  and  its
potential  to  catalyse  change.  These  are  companies  founded  on  a  scientific  discovery  or  meaningful
engineering innovation.  They  exist  around  set  of  cutting-edge  and disruptive  technologies based  on
scientific discoveries, engineering, mathematics, physics and medicine. New technological applications
that can have a profound impact on people’s and society’s lives. Artificial intelligence, deep learning and
machine learning are seen to be influencing most of such innovations.
TISC at IITJ and Focus Areas
Technology Innovation and Startup Centre (TISC) is set up at IIT Jodhpur to provide incubation space
for startups and innovators. This setup aims at nucleating a cluster of new age ventures around the focal
theme of “Artificial Intelligence of Things (AIOT)” which is thematically unique in the country. AIOT
Including  ICT  &  Electronics  for  livelihood  &  infrastructure  management,  New  and  Renewable  Energy  and
Environmental sustainability, Sensor Technology, Micro and Nano electronics, Internet of Things, AI applications.
Technology Innovation and Startup Center (TISC)
Promoting Deep-Tech Startups
Why IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur, has established a School of Management & Entrepreneurship where purpose is not only create
business leaders with fine understanding of technology assorts but also offer multiple programs to augment
entrepreneurship in the campus. At present, following programs have been envisaged:
‘Minor Area Program’ offering select courses on entrepreneurial learning to UG students, encouraging
them to eventually conceive a robust Business Plan and compete for incubation
‘Basecamp’ programs are shorter range courses designed to outside start-ups aspirants who are looking
for organised input and further guidance for setting up their businesses
‘Master  program  in  Entrepreneurship’  to  produce  professionals  who  become  part  of  guiding  and
managing start-up ecosystem in the country
Facilitating doctoral students working in Technology department where research is expected to result
in a Deep Technology outcome. This include:
Working in tandem to conceive interdisciplinary projects of ‘LARGE’ size
Facilitate in obtaining funding support for the R&D
Facilitate in developing real life test beds
Facilitate connecting to VCs
Facilitate in connecting to corporate partners for eventual commercialization
Collaborate established agencies eg DRDO, ISRO, BARC etc
Seeking your support for TISC
The  institute  invites  your  support  through  CSR  funds  or  through  other  means  for  incubating  young
entrepreneurs, creating facilities for incubatees. The institute has a formal mechanism through which it can
accept funds for this cause. We welcome your generous support for TISC.
NH 65, Jodhpur, Karwad-342037, Rajasthan.
Email:  director@iitj.ac.in,             Web: www.iitj.ac.in