Academic & Research Facilities | Bachelor of Technology | IIT Jodhpur
Academic & Research Facilities
(Q1)  What Academic Facilities are available at IIT Jodhpur?     IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and  research laboratories . These laboratories have advanced equipment and instrumentation of international standard, which are used extensively in teaching and research. The major laboratories include Heat Transfer, Fluid Mechanics, Electronic Circuit Laboratory, Robotics, Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory, and Solar Radiation .   The  Library  of the Institute has a collection of about 12,000 volumes of books comprising of textbooks, research and reference books, monographs, etc. In addition, the Library provides access to a range of electronic resources from professional and scholarly societies and publishers, such as American Society for Mechanical Engineers, Institute for Electrical & Electronics Engineers, and Association for Computing Machinery. Also, it subscribes to popular scientific, research and archival databases. The Library operates in a computerized environment with automated member & circulation services, and digital library services. Memberships, circulation, reference & information service, inter-library loans & document lending services, current awareness service, and digital library service, are some of the important services that are presently offered. Visit  http://library.iitj.ac.in  for more information.   IIT Jodhpur is building close relations with select international universities, research institutes and corporations. For example,  Memoranda of Understanding  have been signed with the University of Waterloo, the University of Western Ontario in Canada, and the University at Rovira i Virgili ( Tarragona, Spain). These MoUs allow for short-term exchange of Students and Faculty Members.  (Q2)  Is any financial assistance available?   The IITJ facilitates scholarships and financial aids through numerous ways to its students. The Office of Students encourages and assists the students to apply and being awarded scholarships like National and State SC/ ST schemes like NSP, Top Class etc; Fee Remission to SC/ST students, CSIR/UGC/MHRD grants and other scholarships.  National Scholarship Portal (NSP)-one-stop solution through which various services starting from student application, application receipt, processing, sanction and disbursal of various scholarships to Students are enabled. National Scholarships Portal is taken as Mission Mode Project under National e-Governance Plan (NeGP). Central Sector Scholarship Scheme for Top Class Education for SC/ST students- This scholarship is provided to the meritorious students belonging to the SC/ST category. Facilities like tuition fees waiver, living expenses, books and a computer.  Fee Remission- Tuition fee remission and tuition fee waiver will be given as per the Ministry of Education regulations (F. No. 24-2/2016-TS-1, dated 08 April 2016) to the eligible students.  The SC/ST/PH students shall get complete fee waiver  The most economically backward students (whose family income is less than 1 lakh rupees per annum) shall get full remission of the fee.   The other economically backward students (whose family income is between 1 lakh to 5 lakh rupees per annum) shall get remission of 2/3rd of the tuition fee. All students shall have access to interest free loan under the  Vidyalaxmi scheme  for the total portion of the tuition fee payable. Students can also apply through various loan from banks under  education loan schemes .
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 16 Jan 2026 - 09:58 AM