M.Sc. (Mathematics)-M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences) | Office of Academics Affairs | IIT Jodhpur
M.Sc. (Mathematics)-M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences)
The M.Sc. (Mathematics) program of Department of Mathematics essentially imparts its students’ judicious mix of core theoretical and applied mathematics courses. In contrast, the proposed M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences) program provides an interdisciplinary platform for the students to explore new opportunities in the emerging areas including governance, finance, security, transportation, healthcare, energy management, agriculture, population studies, weather prediction, economics, social sciences, predictive maintenance, structural health monitoring, smart manufacturing and computational structural biology. By offering a unique dual degree program in M.Sc. (Mathematics)-M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences), the Department intends to produce professionals with adequate depth in subject knowledge and innovative analytical and computational skills to solve problems in a variety of domains specifically in data and computational sciences. Thus this dual degree program provides an excellent foundation for a career in science as well as industry. The candidate would expect a leap towards the professional career through this contemporary dual degree program. Some of the salient features of this program can be summarized as follows:
The total duration of this program is four years.
As an eligibility for admission to the program, JAM qualified candidate will be considered as per existing norms of M.Sc. programs. Students with CPI 8.0 or more than 8.0 in M.Sc. will be eligible for assistantship during M.Tech.
After completion of two years MSc Mathematics program, students will be directly enrolled in MTech (Data and Computational Sciences).
Both the degrees will be awarded together to the candidate after the successful completion of both the programs.
The conceptual curriculum for both M.Sc. (Mathematics) and M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences) are available on the following links.
(a) M.Sc. (Mathematics) (b) M.Tech. (Data and Computational Sciences)
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM