Environmental Biotechnology | Bioscience & Bioengineering | IIT Jodhpur
Faculty Members associated with the lab
meenuchhabra@iitj.ac.in , head_bb@iitj.ac.in, office_bb@iitj.ac.in
(91 291) 280 1205
Groups under this theme   1. Bioenergy & Bioremediation Group     The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur carries out researches in the areas of bioenergy and bioremediation. Researchers in the lab investigate on waste to energy conversion processes to develop sustainable biotechnological solutions to water pollution and energy. At present, successful bioremediation processes for nitrate, uranium (VI), saline starch, and chromium (VI) contaminated water has been developed. Besides, low-cost Microbial Carbon Capture cells for power generation and algae cultivation have been developed. Also, researchers in the lab have been successful in isolating novel yeast with characteristics of the potential biodiesel producer.
Projects that the lab is currently catering to   1. Bioremediation of low-level waste including denitrification using Microbial fuel cells (Dr. Meenu Chhabra)   2. Development of low-cost microbial carbon capture cells for algae cultivation and power generation (Dr. Meenu Chhabra)   3. Developing paper based Microbial fuel cells for sensing applications (Dr. Meenu Chhabra)   4. Exploring oleaginous yeast as potential biodiesel/drop-in biofuel producing candidates (Dr. Meenu Chhabra)   5. Prototyping Microbial fuel cells (Dr. Meenu Chhabra)
Key Instrumentation Available   Multi-vessel fermenter Photobioreactor Algal growth chamber Electrochemical workstation Two-dimensional gel elecrophoresis system Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Mar 2026 - 05:27 PM