GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF TRIBAL AFFAIRS
NATIONAL FELLOWSHIP & SCHOLARSHIP FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
SCHEDULED TRIBE STUDENTS
[CENTRAL SECTOR SCHEME]
2021-22 to 2025-26
PART-A: National Fellowship Scheme
Salient features of the scheme
2.1  Eligibility and Course Duration
2.3  Age limit
2.4  Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme
2.5  Number of Fellowship
2.6  Value of Fellowship
3.1  On-line Application through Portal
3.2  Registration process
3.3  Documents required for filling application form
3.4  Verification Process by University/Institute
3.5  Selection Procedure for fellowship [MPhil/Ph.D]
3.6  Selection Committee for MPhil/PhD
3.7  Publishing of Merit list
3.8  Completion of formalities by scholar and Institute
Release of Fellowship
4.1  Release through PFMS system
4.2  Procedure for release and continuation of fellowship
4.3  Procedure at the time of completion of course
5.1  Procedure to change the University
5.2  Procedure to change the subject/course
5.3  Discontinuation of the course
5.4  Tenure of Fellowship
5.5  Leave benefit for fellowship (as applicable to UGC
Cancellation of Award
Applicability of Guidelines
Change in the provisions of the scheme
PART-B: National Scholarship
Sl. No.  Particulars
Salient Features of the Scheme
2.1  Eligibility and course duration
2.3  Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme
2.4  Slots of Scholarship
2.5  Value of Scholarship
3.1  Online Application through Portal
3.2  Registration Process
3.3  Documents Required
3.4  Verification Process by University/Institute
3.4.1  Verification Process by the Ministry
3.5  Publishing of the selection list
Release of payment
4.1  Payment process
4.2  Utilization Certificate from the Institute
4.3  Updation of Expenditure at PFMS
5.1  Updation of the completion of course at Ministry’s portal
5.2  Grievance Module
Applicability of Guidelines
Change in the provisions of the scheme
It is a Central Sector Scheme, fully funded by Ministry of Tribal Affairs to grant
scholarship to meritorious ST students for pursuing higher education in India.
This  scheme  has  two  sub-schemes.   The  first  sub-scheme  is  National
Fellowship  Scheme  for  pursuing  M.Phil  or  Ph.D  after  completion  of  Master
degree.   The  second  sub-scheme  is  National  Scholarship  Scheme,  for
pursuing  Graduate/Post  Graduate  courses
Government  and  Non-Government  Institutes  in  professional  fields  such  as
Management, Medicine, Engineering, Information Technology, Law etc.
The  above  mentioned  two  sub  schemes  are  continuing  schemes  and  were
merged into one scheme in the financial year 2017-18
PART –A (National Fellowship Scheme)
The  objective  of
meritorious Scheduled  Tribe  students  to  enable  them  to  pursue  higher  education
after completing post-graduate degree.
is to  provide
2.         Salient Features of the Scheme
Fellowship under the Scheme will be for pursuing MPhil, Ph.D  by those  ST students
who have passed the Post-graduation/Master Degree examination.
Note: - In case, under the national education policy, there is any change in the type
of  course,  the  same  will  be  incorporated  in  the  guidelines.  However,  the  scholars
already covered under the scheme prior to 2021-22, will be allowed to complete the
course as per the existing scheme.
2.1       Eligibility and Course Duration
M. Phil + Ph D  2+3  =5  years  or  date  of  submission
2  years  or  date  of  submission  of
dissertation, whichever is earlier
of dissertation, whichever is earlier
5  years  or  date  of  submission  of
dissertation, whichever is earlier
Post-Graduation  and  should  have
taken  admission  in  the  universities
covered  under  the  category,  as
mentioned at 2.4 below.
(ii).   The  candidates  should  have
minimum  55%  marks  at  the  final
examination/grading at PG level.
2.2       Income Criteria:
There is no income criteria for eligibility in respect of this scholarship.
2.3        Age limit:
Maximum 36 years, as on first day of July of the relevant year of the award
2.4       Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme
Eligible students can take admission for regular and full time M. Phil/Ph.D courses in
the following categories of University / Academic Institutes: -
i.  Universities/Institutes/Colleges  included  under  section  2(f)/12(B)  or  2(f)  and
12(B) of UGC Act.
ii.  Deemed to be Universities included under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956
and eligible to receive grant-in-aid from UGC.
iii.  Universities/ Institutes/ Colleges receiving grants  by Central/ State
Institutes of National Importance, as notified by Ministry of Higher Education,
Government of India.
2.5       Number of Fellowship
The total number of fresh fellowships for M.Phil/M.Phil +PhD/Ph.D every year will be
750.  In  case  of  non-availability  of  adequate  number  of  Scheduled  Tribe applicants,
the number of fellowships not availed during that year will be carried forward to the
next academic year. There is no State/University wise ceiling on the number of slots.
(i).    In  case  the  number  of  applicants exceeds  the  number  of  available  slots  for
awards,  selection  will  be  made on  the  basis  of  marks  obtained  in  post-graduation
(ii).     Slots will be provided to sub-categories subject to  the following priority:
Divyangjan [5% of 750]
PVTG (List at Annexure-VIII)
Female [30% of 750]
IITs/AIIMS/IIMs/IISER  will  be  given  priority  and  slots  meant  for  ST-Others
category(Sr.No.4 above) will be reduced proportionately.
students  who  have  got  offer  of  admission
Note-2:  -The  students  applying  as  Divyangjan  should  produce  the  Disability
Certificate,  certifying  minimum  40%  disability,  issued  by  the  competent
authority designated by respective State/UT.
(iii).  In  case  adequate  number  of  applications  is  not  received  for  the  above  sub-
categories,  then  the  unfilled  slots  will  be  allotted  to  eligible  ST  research  applicants
not  covered  under  any  of  the  three  categories  mentioned  above,  on  the  basis  of
inter-se merit based on post- graduation examination.
(iv). Procedure for determining slot distribution for sub category:
Category 1 [Divyangjan]: 38 slots will be reserved for Divyangjan Research scholars,
and their selection will be on the basis of merit. In case of more than 38 applications
received  in  this  category,  top  38  applicants,  in  the  order  of  merit,  will  be  selected,
and the remaining applications will be treated under normal ST category. However, if
the  number  of  applications  received  is  less  than  38,  remaining  vacant  slots  will  be
filled by the next priority category i.e PVTG.
Category  2  [PVTG]:  25  slots  will  be  reserved  for  PVTG  applicants,  and  their
selection  will  be  on  the  basis  of  merit.  In  case,  more  than  25  applications  are
received  in  this  category,  top  25  applicants,  in  the  order  of  merit,  will  be  selected
against the allotted slots, and the remaining applications will be treated under normal
ST  category.  However,  if  the  number  of  applications  received  is  less  than  25,
remaining vacant slots will be filled by the next priority category i.e Female.
Category  3  [Female]:  Out  of  total  750,  225  slots  will  be  reserved  for  female
applicants  [including  Divyangjan  and  PVTG].  In  case more  than  225  applications
[including  Divyangjan  and  PVTG]  from female  candidates  are  received  in  this
category,  top  225  applicants,  in  the  order  of  merit,  will  be  selected  against  the
available  slots.  The  remaining  applications will  be  treated  under ST open  category.
In  case  the  number  of  applications  of  female  candidates  is  less  than  225,  the
remaining vacant slots will be adjusted with ST others category.
(iv).  The guidelines provide that the student is eligible for scholarship for regular and
full time M. Phil/Ph.D in the University/Academic Institute as mentioned in para 2.4.
However,  for  pursuing  Ph.D  courses  in   AIIMS/IIMs/IITs/IISERs,  where  the  pre-
requisite  may  be   that  the  students  should  have  financial  security  in  hand  before
he/she  can  take  admission,    preference  will  be  given  to  those  students  who  have
secured  offer  of  admission  from  AIIMS/IITs/IIMs/IISERs.  Therefore,  the  student
should mention,  in the  application  form, that  he/she  has  got  offer of  admission  and
should also upload the offer letter issued.
2.6       Value of fellowship
The applicant selected for  scholarship will be entitled to the stipend as stipulated in
the following table subject to fulfilment of conditions laid down in the scheme.
Scholarship   Monthly  Contingency
Humanities& Social Sciences  Rs.31000/-
Humanities& Social Sciences  Rs.31000/- for first two
remaining 3 years
HRA for all the courses (monthly): Equal to UGC rates [8% or 16% or 24% based
Escort Allowance for Divyanjan (monthly): Rs.2000/- (at par with UGC rates)
The above rates are equal to UGC rates, which may be revised as and when revised
In case a student is provided hostel accommodation by the university, he/she
would not be eligible to claim HRA, but will be eligible to draw only hostel fees
charged  by  the  University.   The  scholar  will  not  be  entitled  to  claim  mess,
electricity,  water  charges,  etc.  A  certificate  to  this  effect  is  to  be  furnished
through the Registrar/Director/Principal.
If  the  student  makes  his/her  own  arrangements  of  accommodation,  he/she
may be entitled to draw HRA as per categorization of cities by Govt. of India.
Note  1:  The  research  scholars  considered  eligible  for  the  fellowship  under  the
scheme  shall  not  be  eligible  for  any  other  fellowship/scholarship  of  the  Union  or
State Government for the same study.
Note  2:   Release  of  fellowship  will  be  subject  to  fulfilment  of  various  requirements
stated in subsequent paras.
3.         Selection Process:
3.1       On-line Application through Portal
The  applications  for  research  scholarship  are  invited  through  online  mode  once a
year  through  online  portal  https://fellowship.tribal.gov.in  developed  by  the  Ministry.
The  date  of  opening  and  closing  of  portal  will  be  given  due  publicity  through  print
and electronic media and through Universities/Institutes. The portal will usually open
on  July  1  and  close  on  September  30 in  the  academic  year.   These  dates  may
change,  depending  on  the  prevailing  circumstances,  which  will  be  notified  through
the  portal  of  Ministry.      Applicants  are  advised  to watch the  portal  for  opening  of
application form. Applicants are advised to go through the Instruction Manual before
applying online on the portal, and for any query, may refer to the help desk module
given on the portal.  Incomplete applications will not be considered. Candidates have
to apply strictly as per the instructions given in online application portal.
3.2       Registration process
Before  filling  application  form  online,  Research  scholars  are  required  to  register
themselves  on  the  online  fellowship  portal  as  well  as  on  Digi  Locker  since  it  is
mandatory  to  upload  documents  through  Digi  Locker,  for  which  Aadhaar  is
mandatory as notified by the Ministry.
Note 1:  Notification of Ministry of Tribal Affairs under section 7 of Aadhaar Act 2016
published in Gazette of India on 30.5.2017 and circulated to all States vide letter no.
19012/01/2017-Edu-sch  dated  9.6.2017  should  be  complied.   The  notification
provides that an individual desirous of availing the benefit of National Fellowship and
Scholarship scheme is required to furnish proof of possession of Aadhaar number or
undergo Aadhaar authentication.
3.3       Documents required for filling application form
Applicant  will  be  required  to  upload  the  following  documents  on  the  portal  for
•  Latest coloured passport size photograph
•  ST/PVTG certificate issued by the competent authority
•  10th /Matriculation/equivalent certificate in support of date of birth
•  Divyangjan certificate issued by the competent authority
•  Post-Graduation mark sheet [Aggregate marks in %] /equivalent % marks in
case  of  CGPA  (Conversion  formula  from  CGPA  to  percentage  which  was
issued by Institute/University to be produced.)
•  Admission/Joining certificate of M.Phil/Ph.D / Integrated M.Phil+Ph.D from the
•  Offer of admission in respect of students admitted to IITs/AIIMS/IIMs/IISERs.
After filing of application, the form along with the documents will be available online
to the concerned university/Institute for verification:
3.4       Verification Process by University/Institute
•  The  portal  has  provision  of  online  verification  by  the  Universities  where  the
applicant  has  taken  admission.   Nodal  Officer  from  the  University  and
verifying officer who is dealing with Scholarship is required to register on the
online  portal.  The  officials  may  go  through  the  Instruction  manual  for  details
given in the portal.[https://fellowship.tribal.gov.in]
•  Nodal  Officer  from  University  will  verify physical  documents  of  the  research
scholars  uploaded  by  him/her  on  the  portal.  It  would  be  the  responsibility  of
the  concerned  University  to  ensure  that  the  information  uploaded  by  the
research scholar is correct and is matching with the physical documents of the
research scholars furnished at the time of verification.
•  After receiving student details duly verified by the Institute, online verification
of application will be done by the Ministry. In case of any discrepancies found
in the application, Ministry will mark application as defective and the defective
application  will  be  visible  to  the  student.  The  student  is  advised  to  make
correction in the defective application and required to resubmit once again on
the  portal  at  Institute  level.  Institute  will  verify  the  corrected  application  and
submit  it  to  the  Ministry  through  portal  for  final  verification  and  submission
before the last date.
3.5      Selection Procedure for fellowship [MPhil/Ph.D]
A  merit  list  will  be  prepared  in  respect  of the  remaining  eligible  research  scholars
based on the marks obtained by them in the post-graduation examination and as per
selection criteria adopted by the selection committee.  Allotment of slots in respect of
various streams will be based on methodology adopted by the committee.
3.6       Selection Committee for MPhil/PhD:
Selection of the research scholars will be done by Selection committee of Ministry
of Tribal Affairs, consisting of following members.
Secretary (M/o TA)
Joint Secretary & Financial Adviser (M/o TA)
Joint Secretary, Scholarship Division
Director/Deputy  Secretary,  Scholarship  Division,
Representative  from  Ministry  of  Social  Justice  and
Representative from UGC
Note:-  The  Committee  may  invite  an  expert  as  a  special  invitee,  as  and  when  it
3.7       Publishing of Merit list
The list of research scholars provisionally selected for the award of fellowship will be
published  on  website  of  Ministry  of  Tribal  Affairs.   Decision  of  the  Ministry  for
awarding  the  Fellowship  shall  be  final.   The  Ministry  reserves  the  right  to
withdraw/cancel the award without assigning any reason.
3.8       Completion of formalities by scholar and Institute (Ph.D/M.Phil)
The  provisionally  selected  research  scholar  is  required  to  take  admission  in  the
university/Institute  concerned  and  submit  the  joining  report  to  the  Ministry  within  1
month  from  the  date  of  issue  of  provisional  award  letter.  If  any  research  scholar
doesn’t  join  within  this  stipulated  time  period,  his/her  award  will  be  liable  to
be cancelled,  and  research  scholar(s)  from  the  waiting listmay be  given  opportunity
to be considered.
The  research  scholar  and  university  will  be  required  to  complete  the  following
formalities within one month of award of scholarship.
The candidate will give the Joining report to the University/Institute
In  case  candidate  has  already  been  availing  scholarship
University/any other agency, he/she is required to refund the said amount and
submit a certificate to that effect from the date of selection of fellowship.
II.  Up-dation of documents at fellowship portal:
a.  Refund  receipt  to  be  submitted  online  (For  those  research  scholars  who
availed fellowship/scholarship from other sources)
b.  Check  list  as  mentioned  in  provisionally  award  letter  duly  signed  by  the
University will be uploaded on portal by research scholar.
research  scholar  will  obtain  No  Objection  Certificate
University/Institute  regarding  non-availing  of  fellowship/scholarship  by  the
research  scholar  from  any  other  source  and  will  upload  on  the  portal.
Up-dation of documents on designated bank portal/Agency
a.  Joining report of the research scholar will be uploaded by the University
b.  The  Universities/  Colleges/  Institutions  will  submit  the  master  data  of  the
eligible beneficiaries on the portal with a unique user’s profile (user name and
password).  The  bank  account  numbers  of  the  beneficiaries  will  be  validated
through PFMS for creation of beneficiary ID.
c.  The following check-list will be followed.
Linking  of  research  scholar  ID  with  designated  bank  Portal  to  be  done  by
University/Institute and submitted to Ministry online for approval.
Quarterly uploading of continuation certificate in the prescribed proforma, at the
end of every quarter.
1st quarter April-June (10 July)
2nd quarter July-September (10th October)
3rd quarter October-December (10th January)
4th quarter January – March (10th of April)
Marking  for  monthly  HRA  entitlement  of  the  scholar  by  the  university  after
approval of continuation by the Ministry, as uploaded by the University in step II
After  completion  of  one-year  duration  of
fellow/awardee shall submit the Progress report  at the University/upload at the
tribal repository portal.
4.  Release of Fellowship:
4.1       Release through PFMS system:
Scholarship  will  be  released  through  PFMS  by  designated  bank/Agency  through
Direct  Benefit  Transfer  (DBT)  in  active  bank  accounts  linked  with  Aadhaar  and
i.  The  designated  bank  will  ensure  that  all  formalities  required  by  PFMS  are
completed  and  the  scholarship  is  released  to  the  scholar in  his/her  Aadhaar
linked  bank  account  and  message  is  delivered  to  account  linked  mobile
ii.  Mobile  number  given  in  the  Aadhaar  and  bank  account  should  be  same.  In
order to avoid inconvenience, research scholars should keep the same mobile
number and email id till completion of the course. In case of any change, they
must notify on the portal.
iii.  Payment  of  Fellowship  to  the  selected  research  scholars  will  be  made  on
quarterly  basis,  through  PFMS  to  the  accredited  bank  in  DBT  mode  upon
uploading  the  documents  at  the  designated  Bank  portal  by  the  universities
and  approved  by  the  Ministry.  This  will  also  help  Ministry  to  monitor  through
Public Financial Management System (PFMS).
4.2       Procedure for release and continuation of fellowship
The  fellowship  amount  stated  in  para  2.6  will  be  released  to  the  account  of  the
research scholar on quarterly basis. For this following process will be required to be
completed by the University and research scholar.
i.  The fellowship will be effective from the selection year in which the research
Admission/Joining/Registration in the University/College.
ii.  The  duration  of  the  course  will  be  counted  from  the  admission  year/joining
year/registration year in the University/ College whichever is earlier. However,
the  fellowship  amount  for  the  earlier  years  [before  selection  by  the  Ministry]
will not be admissible.
iii.  The research scholar, who is awarded the Fellowship under the scheme, will
be required to continue the course in the respective University/Institute on full
4.3       Procedure at the time of completion of course
The research scholar is required to submit his/her M.Phil/Ph.D certificate and
course completion certificate to the Ministry.
In  order  to  have  repository  of  research  done  by  the  research  scholars,
scholars  are  required  to  upload  their  thesis  on  the  repository  portal
[repository.tribal.gov.in].  The  fellowship  amount  of  the  last  quarter  will  be
released  to  research  scholars  only  when  they  upload  the  thesis  on  the
repository portal along with relevant metadata.
5. Other Issues
5.1       Procedure to change the University
The  research  scholar  will  be  permitted  to  transfer  the  fellowship  from  one
to  another  Universities/Institutes/Colleges.  This
would  require  prior  approval  of  the  Universities/Institutes/Colleges  where  the  fellow
was pursuing the course and the new University where he intends to take transfer.
The old university will initiate online transfer of the scholar at designated Bank portal
and new university will accept the transfer request. Both old and new universities will
also  upload  NOC  [No  objection  certificate]  for  transfer  at  the  same  portal.  After
receiving online transfer request from both the universities, Ministry will approve the
5.2       Procedure to change the subject/course:
The research scholar will be permitted to change the subject with the prior approval
of  the  Universities/Institutes/Colleges  where  the  fellow  is  pursuing  the  course.  The
student will update necessary details on portal.   However, duration of course will be
2 years in case of MPhil and 5 years in case of M.Phil+Ph.D or  Ph.D.
5.3       Discontinuation of the course
In case of discontinuation of course, the research scholar will submit the undertaking
with reason for such discontinuation. University is required to mark as discontinued
on the designated bank’s portal to stop the further payment.
5.4      Tenure of Fellowship
The  tenure  of  scholarship  would  be  2  years  for  M.Phil  students  and  5  years  for
M.Phil+Ph.D or  Ph.D students.
5.4.1    Date from which the tenure of scholarship will be counted.
In case a student has taken admission for MPhil/PhD course in the previous year but
could not apply or was not selected for the fellowship in that year, he can apply for
the fellowship in subsequent year.  In case a student is selected for fellowship in 2nd
or  subsequent  year,  he  will  be  eligible  for  the  remaining  period  of  the  course
duration. For instance, if a student has taken admission for a course in 2020-21 but
could  not  apply/be  selected  in  2020-21,  and  if  he  is  selected  for  fellowship  during
2021-22, then he will receive the fellowship for the remaining 4 years duration of the
5.4.2 In case of an M.Phil scholar  willing to avail fellowship for Ph.D, he/she would
be  considered  as  an  ongoing  candidate  and  is  not  required  to  apply  afresh.
However, the fellowship will be available for a maximum of 5 years including M.Phil
period of 1 year/2 years, as the case may be.
5.4.3 In case there is any change of course, total duration of fellowship support will
be limited to maximum 5 years
5.5       Leave benefit for fellowship (as applicable to UGC research scholars)
The research scholars are entitled for a maximum period of 30 days of leave
in  a  year,  in  addition  to  public  holidays,  with approval  of  the  Head  of  the
ii.  Research  scholars  are  eligible  for  maternity/paternity  leave  as  per  Govt.  of
India norms issued from time to time. No fellowship is admissible during such
maternity/paternity  leave.  However,  the  fellowship  will  be  extended  for  the
period for which the leave was availed. For example, if a scholar is selected
for  Ph.D  on  1st  April  2022,  he  is  eligible  to  receive  fellowship  till  31st  March
2027.  In  case  a  female  research  scholar  avails  maternity  leave  of  6  months
from  1st  January  2024  to  30th  June  2024,  then  fellowship  is  not  admissible
during this period. However, her fellowship can be extended by 6 months i.e.
up  to  30th  September  2027.  During  this  extended  period  of  6  months  she  is
eligible for fellowship.
iii.  Beside this, an “Intermittent Break” for a maximum period of 1 year may also
be permissible to women research scholars. The leave can be availed 3 times
during  the  entire  period  of  fellowship.  Admissibility  of  fellowship  during  such
Intermittent Break will be the same as given in above para 5.5(ii).
iv.  Academic Leave: Academic leave without fellowship shall be permissible only
(for  any  kind  of  academic
for  one  year
Admissibility  of  fellowship  during  such  Academic  leave  will  be  the  same  as
given  in  above  para  5.5(ii).  Expenditure  on  foreign  or  domestic  visit  in
connection with research work is not covered under the scheme.
in  connection  with
Note:  Prior  approval  of  the  University/Institute/College  is  mandatory  for  all  types  of
6. Cancellation of Award
The fellowship of research scholar(s) is liable to be cancelled, in case of proven
misconduct as communicated/certified by university authorities or found ineligible
Students/Institutes can register any query on MoTA’s dedicated grievance portal
8. Applicability of Guidelines
These  guidelines  will  be  applicable  from  the  selection  year  2021-22  and  onwards.
However, the rates of fellowship will be effective from 1st April 2022. No arrears shall
be paid for the period prior to 1st April 2022.
9. Change in the provisions of the scheme
The  provisions  of  this  Scheme  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  by  Ministry  of
Tribal  Affairs,  Government  of  India,  with  approval  of  the  competent  authority,  by
issuing  circulars,  addendum,  memorandum  etc.  which  will  become  part  of  the
B. National Scholarship Scheme
National  Scholarship  Scheme  is  intended  to  encourage  meritorious  ST  students  to
pursue courses at Graduate and Post Graduate level in premier institutes identified
by  the  Ministry  in  professional  fields  such  as  Management,  Medicine/Science,
Engineering and Technology, Humanities, Law and Social Science etc.
2.         Salient Features of the Scheme
This  is a  Central  Sector  Scheme,  fully  funded  by  the  Ministry  of  Tribal  Affairs  and
provides  100%  funding  to  ST  students  in  courses  and  institutes  approved  and
notified by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs.  The scholarship once awarded will continue
till  completion  of  the  course  tenure,  subject  to  satisfactory  performance  of  the
student, as assessed by the institute.
2.1       Eligibility and course duration
Graduate level  Course  duration  is  fixed  by
ST  students  who  have  secured
Institutions  and  courses  approved
by  the  Ministry  will  be  eligible  for
the scholarship under the scheme.
Note  1:  Students  availing  this  scholarship  are  not  eligible  to  claim  benefit  of  any
other scholarship scheme of the Centre/ State Govt. for the same study.
Note  2:  The  duration  of  the  course  varies  as  per  the  course  selected  by  the
candidate.  The  scholarship,  once  awarded,  will  continue  till  the  completion  of  the
course, subject to satisfactory performance as certified by the Institute.
2.2       Income Criteria: The total family income of the student to be eligible for this
scholarship  from  all  sources  should  not  exceed  Rs.6.0  lakh  per annum.  The  family
income shall be computed in the following manner: -
In  case  where  both  father  and  mother  are  working,  the  combined  income  of
both  of  them  from  all  sources  shall  be  takeninto  account  in  computing  total
In  case  any  other  member  of  the  family,  other  than  father  and  mother  is  an
earning  member,  his  or  her  income  shall  not  be  included  in  computing  total
In case only one parent is alive, the income of that parent shall be taken into
account  for  considering  total  parental  income.   If  other  sibling  or  family
member  is  an  earning  member,  their  income  shall  not  be  included  in
computing total family income.
In  the  case  of  an  orphan,  supported  by  a  guardian,  income  criteria  shall  not
In  case  of  married  candidates,  the  spousal  income  will  also  be  added  to
compute total family income.
Note 1: Definition of Income - Income means gross income including income from all
sources  e.g.  Salary,  Interest  Income,  Income  from  House  property,  Income  from
Business, Agricultural income, and Income from any other Sources etc. It is clarified
that  Income  for  the  purpose  of  scholarship  is  not  the  taxable  Income  as  defined  in
Income Tax Act. The deductions and exemption available in the Income Tax Act u/s
10, Section 80 or any other section will not be available in computing gross Income
under the scheme.
Note  2:  Income  certificate  is  required  to  be  taken  once  only  i.e.  at  the  time  of
admission  to  courses  which  are  continuing  for  more  than  one  year.  Income
certificate should be for the financial year immediately preceding the selection year.
For example, for the selection year 2022-23, income certificate for the financial year
2021-22(Assessment  year  2022-23)  is  admissible.  In  case  of  salaried  employees
Form-16  is  accepted.  In  case  of  income  from  other  sources,  income  certificate
issued by the designated authority of the respective State/UT is accepted.
2.3       Universities/Institutions covered under the scheme: The Ministry of Tribal
Affairs  is  authorized  to  select  and  notify  the  list  of  reputed  premier  Institutions.
The present  list  of  252  notified  Institution  is  given  at  Annexure-  I.  Students  who
have taken admission in these notified institutions are not eligible to apply under the
Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme of this Ministry, in order to avoid duplication.
Slots of Scholarship:
All  eligible  students  who  have  taken  admission  on  merit  to  the  identified  premier
institutes, and are verified by Institute and Ministry as per the norms of the scheme
are  eligible  to  receive  scholarship.  There  is  no  Institute-  wise/  State  wise/  stream
wise ceiling of number of slots.  However, students admitted in Management quota in
a private Institute will not be entitled to scholarship.
2.5       Value of Scholarship:
The  selected  student  will  be  eligible for  financial  assistance  as  stipulated  in  the
following table, subject to fulfilment of conditions laid down in scheme:
Sr. No.  Component
Full  Admission  fee,  tuition
There  will  be  a  ceiling  of
Rs.2.50  lakhs  per  annum  per
for  private  sector
@ Rs.5000/-   per annum  per  annum  per
@ Rs.3000/-per month
Computer & accessories may
be Desktop/Laptop etc.
3.  Selection Process:
3.1 Online Application through Portal:
Applications are  invited, processed,  approved  and  scholarship  is disbursed  through
National  Scholarship  Portal  (www.scholarships.gov.in/) developed  by  (Ministry  of
Electronics and Information Technology). Students after taking admission for various
courses in the notified Universities/Institutes will submit the application online in the
above-mentioned  portal  for  the  scholarship.  The  date  of  opening  and  closing  of
portal  will  be  given  due  publicity  through  print  and  electronic  media  and  through
Institutes  and  States.  The  tentative  dates  of  opening  and  closing  of  portal  will  be
advertised  in  the  National  Scholarship  Portal  every  year  (as  decided  by  DBT
Mission). Students are advised to keep watch on the portal for opening of application
process.  The  applications  submitted  after  the  cut-off  date  and  time  shall  not  be
3.2  Registration  Process:  Before  filling  online  application  form,  Candidates  are
required to register themselves on the online portal. Students are advised to carefully
go  through  the  “Guidelines  for  Registration  on  National  Scholarship  Portal”  before
initiating registration process.
3.3  Documents  Required:   Following  documents  are  required  to  be  uploaded  on
the portal while filling the application online on NSP:
Caste  Certificate  is  required
to  be  signed  and  stamped  by
Income Certificate  Yes
For fresh candidate:
Income Certificate for the F.Y
designated  authority  by  the
passbook  should  match  with
the name as mentioned in the
For fresh Candidate:
Graduate  level  course:  12th
Post  graduate  level  course:
For renewal Candidate:
Scanned  copy  of
the bank passbook
from the Institute
3.4 Verification Process by University/Institute:
The  portal  has  provision  of  online  verification  by  the  Institutes  where  the
applicant  has  taken  admission.   Nodal  Officers  from  the  Institutes,  dealing
Scholarship  Portal  (NSP).  For  further  details  in  this  regard,  the  Institute
officials may go  through  the  “Institute Operational Manual”  available  on  NSP
ii.  Nodal  Officer  from  the  Institutes  will  verify  the  physical  documents  of  the
applicant  uploaded  by  him/her  on  the  portal  and  ensure  that  the  credentials
uploaded in the portal are correct. It would be the responsibility of the Institute
to  ensure  that  information  and  documents  uploaded  by  the  applicant  on  the
portal  is  correct  and  match  with  the  physical  documents  submitted  by  the
candidates for verification.
Institute  will  be  responsible  for  verifying  genuineness  of  the  requisite
certificates  furnished  by  the  candidates  so  as  to  eliminate  the  possibility  of
students availing the Scholarship on fake certificates.
iv.  All  applications  submitted  at  Institute  level  by  the  students  within  the
stipulated date and time shall be processed.
The Institute will not charge any fee for verification of applications.
3.4.1 Verification Process by the Ministry:
After  receiving  student  details  duly  verified  by  the  Institute  at  NSP  portal,  online
verification of application will be done by the Ministry. In case of any discrepancies
found in the application, Ministry will mark application as defective and the defective
application will be visible to the student. Student is advised to make correction in the
defective  application  and  required  to  resubmit  once  again  on  the  portal  at  Institute
level.  Institute  will  verify  the  corrected  application  and  submit  it  to  the  Ministry
through portal for final verification and submit before the last date.
3.5 Publishing of the selection list:
The  list  of  candidates  selected  for  the  grant  of  scholarship  will  be  published  on
website of Ministry of Tribal Affairs.
i.  Decision of the Ministry for granting scholarship shall be final.
Ministry reserves the right to withdraw/cancel the scholarship without
assigning any reasons.
4. Release of payment:
Payment of Scholarship to the selected students will be made once in a year through
PFMS to the accredited bank through DBT mode in to the account of the student.
The  selected  candidates  would  be  required  to  have  bank  accounts  in  the
banks having Core Banking Solutions.  In case the students are not having Aadhaar
numbers,  they  are  required  to  apply  for  Aadhaar  Card,  within  a  month  of  their
registration/admission in the courses under the Scholarship.
4.1 Payment process:
Payment of the Scholarship amount to ST students would be made in the following
Component I: The Scholarship amount payable for Computer & accessories, Books
and  Stationery,  stipend  and  non-refundable  fee  etc.  will  be  released  to  students
through PFMS-Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode into their Aadhaar seeded bank
Component II:  The Scholarship amount payable towards tuition fee and Admission
fee will be released to the Institute through PFMS. In case the student has already
paid the tuition fee and admission fee at the time of admission, it will be reimbursed
to the student’s Aadhaar seeded bank account on submission of receipt/vouchers.
4.2 Utilization Certificate from the Institute:
Institute  is  required  to  submit  Utilization  Certificate  in  the  GFR-12A  format  online
after  receiving  the  Scholarship  amount  (tuition  fee  and  admission  fee)  from  the
Ministry along with the list of students for whom the scholarship amount is received.
Institute will refund the unspent balance, with accrued interest, if any, to the Ministry
through DD payable at Sr. AO, PAO, M/O Tribal Affairs, New Delhi, Payable at Delhi
SBI Shastri Bhawan along with the reasons of refund.
4.3 Up-dation of Expenditure at PFMS:
The  Institute  is  required  to  onboard  and  update  online  expenditure  along  with
unspent  balance  at  PFMS  portal.  The  Institute  may  ensure  that  the  PFMS
expenditure  should  match  with  the  details  given  in  Utilization  Certificate  (UC)
submitted  to  the  Ministry.  After updating  the  expenditure  details  on  PFMS,  Institute
may refer EAT-02 report of PFMS. Based on the UC and EAT-02 report, scholarship
will be released for the subsequent year.
Note:  In  order  to  ensure  timely  release  of  scholarship  to  students,  Institutes  must
ensure that they are onboarded and updated online expenditure along with unspent
balance  on  PFMS.  The  Institute  will  not  ask  for  the  tuition  fee  from  the  students  in
case there is delay in release of amount by the Ministry to the Institute.
5.1 Updation of the completion of course at Ministry’s portal:
The completion of the  Graduation/post-graduation course of the student is required
to be updated by the University/Institute on the Ministry’s portal.
5.2  Grievance  Module:   Students/Institutes  can  register  any  query  on  MoTA’s
dedicated grievance portal (www.tribal.nic.in/grievance)
6. Applicability of Guidelines:
These  guidelines  will  be  applicable  from  the  selection  year  2021-22  and  onwards.
However,  the  rates  of  scholarship  will  be  effective  from  1st  April  2022.  No  arrears
shall be paid for the period prior to 1st April 2022.
7. Change in the provisions of the scheme
The  provisions  of  this  Scheme  may  be  modified  from  time  to  time  by  Ministry  of
Tribal  Affairs,  Government  of  India,  with  approval  of  the  competent  authority,  by
issuing  circulars,  addendum,  memorandum  etc.  which  will  become  part  of  the
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi
Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur
Hauz Khas, New Delhi 110016
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur
Kalyanpur, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208016
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee
Indian Institute of Technology Madras
Indian Institute of Technology Ropar
Roorkee - Haridwar Highway, Roorkee,
Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses including
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology Gandhinagar
Indian Institute of Technology Patna
VGEC Complex, Chandkheda, Ahmedabad-
Bihta, Patna, Bihar 801103
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad
Ordnance Factory Estate, Yeddumailaram-502205 Telangana
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology Mandi
Indian Institute of Technology, Indore
Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu
Indian Institute of Technology , Jammu
Kamand Campus, VPO Kamand, Distt. Mandi-
IET DAVV Campus, M Block, Khandwa Road, Indore-
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses including dual
degree and integrated courses
Paloura campus, Jammu Akhnoor Highway,
Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir
All Engineering Courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
Indian Institute of Technology , Palakkad
Indian Institute of Technology , Tirupati
Ahalia Integrated Campus, Palakkad Dist.,
Kozhippara, Kerala 678557
Tirupati – Renigunta Road, Settipalli Post, Tirupati,
Andhra Pradesh 517506
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology , Goa
Near ITI College, Farmagudi, Ponda, Goa 403401
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology , Bhilai
Old Dhamtari Rd, Datrenga, Chhattisgarh 492015
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Technology , Dharwad
WALMI Campus, Belur Industrial Area, Near High
Court, PB Road, Karnataka 580011
All Engineering Courses
23 National Institute of Technology Warangal
24 National Institute of Technology Silchar
25 National Institute of Technology Patna
Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology
27 National Institute of Technology Jamshedpur
28 National Institute of Technology Surathkal
29 National Institute of Technology Calicut
NIT Campus P.O. Calicut- 673601
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology Nagpur South Ambazari Road, Nagpur-440010
All Engineering Courses
31 National Institute of Technology Rourkela
All Engineering Courses including dual
degree and integrated courses
Dr. B. R. Ambedkar National Institute of Technology
G.T. Road Bye Pass, Jalandhar, Punjab, 144011
All Engineering Courses
33 National Institute of Technology Kurukshetra
All Engineering Courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
34 National Institute of Technology Hamirpur
All Engineering Courses
35 National Institute of Technology Hazratbal
Jammu and Kashmir
All Engineering Courses
Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology
37 Malaviya National Institute of Technology Jaipur
38 National Institute of Technology Durgapur
39 National Institute of Technology Tiruchirappalli
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology
41 National Institute of Technology Agartala
42 National Institute of Technology Raipur
43 National Institute of Technology Manipur
44 National Institute of Technology Sikkim
All Engineering Courses
Barjala, Jirania, Agartala- 799055
G.E. Road, Raipur-492010
Barfung Block Ravangla Sub- Division South Sikkim-
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
45 National Institute of Technology Arunachal Pradesh
Yupia, District Papum Pare- 791112
All Engineering Courses
46 National Institute of Technology Uttarakhand
Temporary Campus, Government Polytechnic,
Srinagar (Garhwal)-246174 Aizawl
All Engineering Courses
47 National Institute of Technology Mizoram
Aizawl, Mizoram, 796012,
48 National Institute of Technology Nagaland
All Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses including material
49 National Institute of Technology Meghalaya
Bijni Complex, Laitumkhrah, Shillong-793003
All Engineering Courses
50 National Institute of Technology Goa
Farmagudi, Ponda, Goa-403401
All Engineering Courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
51 National Institute of Technology Puducherry
All Engineering Courses
52 National Institute of Technology Delhi
Institute of Applied Manpower
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad Devghat, Jhalwa, Allahabad- 211012
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sri City,
Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh
Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Sonepat,
Indian institute of Information Technology, Una,
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Ranchi,
630 Gnan Marg, Sri City, Andhra Pradesh 517646
C/o Block No.9 (IC Department), Government
Engineering College, Sector 28, Gandhinagar,
Village- Kilrod, Haryana(India) C/O Director, NIT
All full time courses
Himachal Pradesh Pin No. 177 005
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Dharwad,
Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Nagpur,
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Pune,
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Senapati,
3rd floor, IT park,, Hubli - Dharwad Hwy,
Deshpande Nagar, Hubali-Dharwad, Karnataka
Valavoor - Chakkampuzha Rd, Valavoor, Kerala
8/C/180/C, CPWD Colony, Seminary Hills, Nagpur,
Talegaon-Chakan Road, Sudumbre, Maharashtra
National Highway 39, Mantripukhri, Heingang,
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kota,
2nd Floor, Prabha Bhawan, MNIT Campus,, JLN
Marg, Jaipur, Rajasthan 302017
Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu
NIT Campus, Tanjore Main Road, Near BHEL,
Tiruchirappali, Tamil Nadu 620015
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Lucknow,
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kalyani,
Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India
Near Webel,IT-Park, Kalyani, West Bengal 741235 West Bengal
Indian Institute of Information Tehnology, Guwahati
GNB Road, Assam Textile Institute Campus,
Ambari, Guwahati, Assam 781001
Indian Institute of Information Technology,Bhopal,
RGPV Campus, Airport Road, Bhopal, Madhya
Indian Institute of Information Technology,Agartala,
R. K. Nagar (opposite to NEEPCO), P.S. Bodjhung
Nagar, pin, Khayerpur, Agartala, Tripura 799008
Indian Institute of Information Technology,Kakinada,
630 Gnan Marg, Sri City, Andhra Pradesh 517646
Indian Institute of Information Surat Gujarat
Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India
Atal Bihari Vajpayee Indian Institute of Information
Technology  & Management Gwalior
Pandit Dwarka Prasad Mishra Indian Institute of
Information Technology, Design & Manufacturing
Morena Link Road Gwalior 474015
Information Technology including
Dumna Airport Road, P.O.:  Khamaria, Jabalpur-
All full time courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design &
Melakottaiyur Village, Off Vandalur-Kelambakkam
Road, Nellikuppam Road, Chennai-600127
All full time courses including dual degree
and integrated courses
Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design &
Manufacturing, Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh
Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, India
School of Planning & Architecture, Delhi
4-Block-B, IndraprasthaEstate, New Delhi-110002 Delhi
All full time courses
School of Planning & Architecture, Bhopal
School of Planning & Architecture, Vijaywada
National Institute of Foundry & Forge Technology
Neelbad Road, Bhauri, Bhopal -462030
Sy. No. 71/1, NH-5, Nidamanuru, Vijaywada-
All full time courses
All full time courses
All full time courses
81 National Institute of Industrial Engineering, Mumbai Vihar Lake, Mumbai-400087
All full time courses
Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad
North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and
Delhi Technological University
Shahbad Daulatpur, Main Bawana Road, New
Delhi, Delhi 110042
All  full  time  courses  in  Engineering
and Sciences including dual degree and
All Engineering and Science courses
All full time Engineering Courses including
dual degree courses
Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology
Ratapur Chowk, Rae Bareli- 229316
All Engineering Courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
International Maritime Academy (IMA), Chennai
Administrative Office: 41, Giri Road, T. Nagar,
Chennai - 600017; Academy Campus :No. 41,
Jamin Korattur, Pudhuchatram, (From
Poonamallee to Tirupathi Highway Road)
Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology
All full time Naval Architecture, Ship
Building Courses including dual degree
and integrated courses
All Engineering Courses including dual
degree and integrated courses
BITS Pilani KK Birla Goa Campus
Pilani Campus, Vidya Vihar, Pilani, Rajasthan
NH 17B Bypass Road, Zuarinagar, Sancoale, Goa
All Science and Engineering Courses
All Science and Engineering Courses
Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra
Mesra, Ranchi, Jharkhand 835215
All Science and Engineering Courses
including integrated courses
BITS Pilani, Hyderabad Campus
92 Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (NSIT)
Jawahar Nagar, Shameerpet Mandal, Hyderabad,
Azad Hind Fauz Marg, Sector 3,Dwarka, New Delhi,
Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad
Vastrapur, Ahmedabad- 380015
All Science and Engineering Courses
All Engineering Courses
All full time Management Courses
Indian Institute of Management Bangalore
Bennerghat Road, Bangalore- 560076 Joka, Post
Box No. 16757,
All full time Management Courses
Indian Institute of Management Kolkata
Alipara PO, Kolkata-700027
All full time Management Courses
Indian Institute of Management Lucknow
Post Box No. 2, Aliganj  Extension, Part-II, Lucknow-
All full time Management Courses
Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode
IIMK Campus, PO, Kozhikode-673570
All full time Management Courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
Indian Institute of Management Indore
Rajiv Gandhi Indian Institute of Management Shillong
Prabandh Shikhar, Rau- Pithampur Road Indore-
Mayurbhanj Complex, Nongthaymai, Shillong-
All full time Management Courses
All full time Management Courses
100 Indian Institute of Management Raipur
GEC Campus, Sejbahar, Raipur-492 015
All full time Management Courses
101 Indian Institute of Management Rohtak
Humanities Block, MDU Campus,  Rohtak-124001 Haryana
All full time Management Courses
102 Indian Institute of Management Ranchi
103 Indian Institute of Management Udaipur
104 Indian Institute of Management Tiruchirappalli
105 Indian Institute of Management Kashipur
106 Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam
Suchna Bhavan 5th Floor, Audrey House Campus,
Meur’s Road, Ranchi-834008
Mohanlal Sukhadia University Campus, Udaipur-
NIT Campus (Post),  Thanjavore Main Road,
Thuvakudi, Tiruchirappalli- 620015
Bazpur Road, Kashipur, Udham Singh Nagar-
Andhra Bank School of Business Building, Andhra
University Campus, Visakhapatnam – 530 003
All full time Management Courses
All full time Management Courses
All full time Management Courses
All full time Management Courses
All full time Management Courses
107 Indian Institute of Management, Bodh Gaya
Directorate of Distance Education Building,
Magadh University Campus, Bodh Gaya - 824234
All full time Management Courses
Indian Institute of Management, Sirmaur, Himachal
IIM Sirmaur, Rampur Ghat Road, District Sirmaur,
Paonta Sahib, Himachal Pradesh 173025
All full time Management Courses
109 Indian Institute of Management, Maharashtra
VNIT Campus, South Ambazari Road, Nagpur,
Maharashtra - 440010
All full time Management Courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
110 Indian Institute of Management, Odisha
C/o Silicon Institute of Technology, Silicon West,
P.O. Sason, Sambalpur, Odisha - 768200
All full time Management Courses
111 Indian Institute of Management, Punjab , Amritsar
Punjab Institute of Technology Building, Inside
Government Polytechnic Campus, Polytechnic
Road PO: Chheharta, G.T. Road, Amritsar, Punjab -
All full time Management Courses
112 Institute of Rural Management (IRMA)
60, Anand, Gujarat 388001
All full time Courses
113 Indian Institute of Forest Management Bhopal
PO Box.-357, Nehru Nagar, Bhopal-462003
All full time Courses
114 Management Development Institute (MDI) Gurgaon
115 Xavier Institute of Management
116 Symbiosis Institute of BusinessManagement Pune
Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies
118 XLRI - Xavier School of Management
Management  Development Institute Mehrauli
Road Sukhrali, Gurgaon - 122 007.
Xavier Square, Jayadev Vihar, Jayadev Vihar,
Bhubaneshwar, Odisha 751013
Khadki, Range Hill Road, Pune, Maharashtra
All full time Management Courses
All full time Management Courses
All full time Management Courses
Circuit House Area, Sonari, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand
119 National Law School of India University, Bangalore
PO Bag-7201, Nagarbhavi,Banglore-560072
120 National Law Institute University Bhopal
Kerwa Dam Road, Bhopal- 462044
121 NALSAR University of Law Hyderabad
Post Box No.1, Justice City,Shameerpet, R.R.
All full time Management Courses
including MSC (Finance)
All full time Management Courses
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
122 National Law University, Jodhpur
NH-65, Nagour Road, Mandore, Jodhpur-342304
The WB National University of Juridical Sciences
Dr. Ambedkar Bhavan, 12, LB Block, Sector III, Salt
Lake City, Kolkata
124 Hidayatullah National Law University Raipur
Uparwara Post, Abhanpur, New Raipur-493661
125 Gujarat National Law University Gandhinagar
Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University,
Attalika Avenue, Knowledge Corridor, Koba,
Sector-D1,LDA Colony, Kanpur Road Scheme,
127 Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Punjab
Sidhuwal - Bhadson Road, Patiala
128 Chanakya National Law University, Patna
Nyaya Nagar, Mithapur, Patna-800001
The National University of Advanced Legal Studies
NUALS Campus, H.M.T. Colony P.O., Kalamassery,
130 National Law University, Delhi
Sector 14, Dwarka, New Delhi-110078
131 National Law University Odisha
Kathajodi, Campus, SEC-13, CDA, Cuttack-753015,
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
All Law Courses including integrated
132 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Delhi
Ansari Nagar, New Delhi 11029
Jawaharlal Institute of   Postgraduate Medical
Education &   Research (JIPMER)
134 Government Vellore Medical College
Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu
Dhanvantri Nagar, Gorimedu, Puducherry, 605006 Puducherry
Arni Road, Arani Road,Opposite Staff Quarters,
Adukkamparai, Vellore, Tamil Nadu 632011
Banaras Hindu University Varansai-221005
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
136 Christian Medical College, Vellore
NH234, Thottapalayam, Vellore, Tamil Nadu
All full time courses
137 Indian Agriculture Research Institute, Delhi
Pusa, New Delhi-110012
Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology
(CIRCOT) ICAR Mumbai
139 Indian Veterinary Research Institute Izatnagar
140 Indian Institute of Plantation Management, Banglore
Adenwala Road, Matunga, Mumbai-400019
Izatnagar, Bareilly-243122 Jnana Bharti Campus,
P.O. Malathalli, Bengaluru-560056
Jnana Bharti Campus,P.O. Malathalli, Bengaluru-
141 Indian Statistical Institute Delhi
7, SJS Sansanwal Marg, New Delhi-110016
142 Indian Statistical Institute Bangalore
8th Mile, Rvce Post, Mysore Road, RV Road,
143 Indian Statistical Institute Kolkata
203, Barrackpore Trunk Road, Kolkata-700108
144 Indian Institute of Science Bangalore
CV Raman Avenue, Yeshwantpura, Bengaluru-
145 National Institute of Fashion Technology Delhi
Hauz Khas, Near GulmoharPark, New Delhi-110016 Delhi
146 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Bangalore
C.A. Site, #21, 27th Main Road, Sector 1, HSR
Layout, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560102
147 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Bhopal
Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462001
National Institute of Fashion Technology,
Plot - 3B, Block-LA, Sector III, Salt Lake City,
Kolkata, West Bengal 700098
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
149 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Chennai
Dr Vikram Sarabai Instronic Estate 7th St, Phase II,
Taramani, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 600096
150 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Hyderabad
Opposite Hi-tech City, Cyberabad Post, Madhapur,
Hyderabad, Telangana 500081
151 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Jodhpur
Karwar,Jodhpur, Rajasthan,INDIA 342037
152 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Kangra
NIFT Campus, Talpura, Kangra, Himachal Pradesh
153 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Kannur
Dharmasala, Parassinikadavu, Kerala 670563
154 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Kolkata
155 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Mumbai
156 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Patna
157 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Rae Brali
158 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Shillong
Plot - 3B, Block-LA, Sector III, Salt Lake City,
Kolkata, West Bengal 700098
Plot no. 15, Sector 4, Kharghar, Navi Mumbai,
Near Jakkanpur Police Station, Mithapur Farm
Area, Mithapur, Patna, Bihar 800001
ITI Colony Area, Doorbhash Nagar, Raebareli,
Uttar Pradesh 229010
'C' Block, Pasteur Hills, Lawmali, Shillong,
159 National Institute of Fashion Technology, Srinagar
Badgam, Jammu and Kashmir 190007
Jammu and Kashmir
National Institute of Fashion Technology,
161 National Institute of Design Ahmedabad
GH-O Road, Behind Info City, Near
DAIICT, Gandhinagar - 382 007
Opp Tagore Hall, Paldi, Ahmedabad, Gujarat
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
162 National Institute of Design Gandhinagar
163 National Institute of Design Bangalore
GH-0, Extension Road Near Infocity, Gandhinagar,
12, HMT Link Road, Off Tumkur Road,
Yeshwanthpur Industrial Area, Phase 1,
Yeshwanthpur, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560022
164 Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai
V. N. Purav Marg, Deonar, Mumbai-400088
165 National Institute of Homeopathy, Kolkata
Block - GE, Sector-III, Salt Lake, Kolkata-700106
166 Film and Television Institute of India, Pune
Law College Road, Pune- 411004
167 Indian Institute of Mass Communication, New Delhi
168 National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal
JNU New Campus, Aruna Asif Ali Road, New Delhi-
169 Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal Nabi Bagh, Berasia Road, Bhopal-462038
National Museum Institute of History of Art,
Conservation and Museology (NMIHACM)
Janpath, New Delhi -110001
171 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Bhopal
Saket Nagar, Bhopal
172 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Bhubaneswar
Sijua, Patrapada, Bhubaneswar-751019
173 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Jodhpur
174 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Patna
Phulwari Sharif, Patna-801505
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
175 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Raipur
Tatibandh, G E Road, Raipur- 492099
176 All India Institute of Medical Sciences Rishikesh
Virbhadra Road, Rishikesh- 249201
Kasturba Medical College  (KMC) Mangalore &
Mangalore- 575001 & Manipal-576104
178 Sir JJ School of Art
78, Dr. D. N. Road, Fort, Mumbai-400001
MBBS/MS/MD/MSc/PG Medical Diploma
and all other full time courses
All undergraduate, Post Graduate and
179 National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur
Madhav Vilas, Palace, Jorawar Singh Gate, Amer
B. Music,M. Music, B.F.A. in
Art/Sculpture], M.F.A. in Painting/Graphic Art
(Print Making)/Design[Ceramic &
Glass/Textile/History of Art/Sculpture]
181 National School of Drama Delhi
Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Guwahati
Bahawalpur House, 1, Bhagwandas Road, New
All full time courses
14-A, Bhuban Road, Uzanbazar, Guwahati 781 001 Assam
All full time courses
Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Hyderabad
SR Sankaran Block, AMR-AP Academy of Rural
Development, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad 500 030.
All full time courses
Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Tuljapur
185 Indian School of Business (ISB)
Tata Institute of Social Sciences, School of Rural
Development Tuljapur-413 601, District-
Knowledge City, Sector 81, SAS Nagar, Mohali,
All full time courses
Post Graduate Programme in
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
186 Indian School of Business (ISB)
Gachibowli, Hyderabad, Telangana - 500 032
187 National Institute of Siddha, Chennai
188 Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (NSNIS)
Old Moti Bagh, Patiala - 147001
Post Graduate Programme in
All full time courses
All full time courses
189 National Institute of Unani Medicine, Bangalore
190 Moraji Desai National Institute of Yoga, New Delhi
National Institute of Mental Health and
Central Food Technological Research Institute,
National Institute of Food Technology
Entrepreneurship and Management
Sri Venketeswara Institute of Medical Sciences
Vardhman Mahavir Medical College & Safdarjung
Kottigepalya, Magadi  Main Road, Bengaluru-
68, Ashoka Road, Near Gole Dak Khana, New Delhi-
Hosur Road, Lakkasandra,Bengaluru, Karnataka
All full time courses
All full time courses
All full time courses
All full time courses
Town Club, Alipiri Road, Chittoor Distt., Tirupati-
All full time undergraduate and Post
Graduate degree courses
MBBS/MDS/ MCH and all other full time
MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
196 King George Medical College Lucknow
(Erstwhile Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical
University), Chowk, Lucknow-226003
MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
197 Maulana Azad Medical College New Delhi
Bahadur Shah Zafar Rd, New Delhi-110002
MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
198 Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi
Shaheed Bhagat Singh Marg, Connaught Place,
New Delhi- 110001
MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
Madras Medical College and Government General
The English and Foreign Languages University
(Formerly known as CIEFL)
E.V.R Periyar Salai, Park Town, Chennai-600003
MBBS/BDS/MDS/MD/MS/DM/ MCH and
all other full time courses
All full time courses
201 Faculty of Management Studies, University of Delhi
University of Delhi, Delhi-110007
National Institute of Mentally Handicapped
Manovikas Nagar, Secundrabad- 500009
BRT/DSE/Bed(Spl. Ed.), PGD in early
Intervention, Diploma in early childhood
spl. Education, Diploma in VT & Emp.,
Med(Spl edu), M.Phil (Rehab  psy), and all
other full time courses
Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute for the Physically
Handicapped, New Delhi
4, Vishnu Digamber Marg, New Delhi-110002
BOT/BPT and all other full time courses
Ali Yavar Jung National Institute for the Hearing
K. C. Marg, Bandra (W) Reclamation, Mumbai-
Swami Vivekanand National Institute of
Rehabilitation Training and Research, SVNIRTAR,
National Institute For The Visually Handicapped,
National Institute for  the Orthopedically
Olatpur, P.O. Bairoi, Cuttack- 754010
116 Rajpur Road, Dehradun- 248001
B T Road, Bonhooghly, Kolkata- 700090
MASLP, S.Sc (ASLP), Med. (Hearing
Impaired), B.Sc. (Hearing Language &
speech), DHLS, DSE, Bed, CCA, DIT, CSL
and all other full time courses
BOT/BPT/BPOE/DMB/MPT/MOT and all
other full time courses
BA/Bed,SLT,PLT,CCPVIP and all other full
BOT/BPT/BPOE/PGDDRM and all other
full time courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
208 National Institute of Technology Andhra Pradesh
Chennai - Srikakulam Highway, Near Kondruprolu,
Tadepalligudam, Andhra Pradesh 534101
All Engineering Courses
Indian Institute of Science Education & Research
(IISER), Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala
Maruthamala PO, Vithura, Thiruvananthapuram,
All Full time courses
Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and
Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala (Id: U-
Near Medical College, Jai Nagar W Road,
Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala 695011
All Full Time Courses except Advance
Certificate Programmes in Physiotherapy
Indian Institute of Science Education & Research
(IISER), Pune Maharashtra
Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Ward No. 8, NCL Colony,
Pashan, Pune, Maharashtra 411008
All Full time courses
Indian institute of Sciecne Education & Research
(IISER), Mohali, Punjab (Id: U-0377)
Knowledge city, Sector 81, Manauli PO, Sahibzada
Ajit Singh Nagar, Punjab 140306
All Full time courses
National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and
Research, Mohali, Punjab (Id: U-0380)
Sector 67, Sahibzada Ajit Singh Nagar, Punjab
All Full time courses
Academy of Scientific & Innovative Research, Tamil
Nadu (Id: U-0713)
Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth
Development, Sriperumbudur, Tamil Nadu (Id: U-
Training and Development Complex, CSIR Campus,
Singaperumal Koil - Sriperumbudur Rd, Sarala
Nagar, Sriperumbudur, Tamil Nadu 602105
All Full time courses
All Full time courses
Indian Institute of Science Education & Research
(IISER), Kolkata, West Bengal (Id: U-0572)
35/1, 2nd Avenue, DC Block, Sector-1, Salt Lake
City, Bidhannagar, Kolkata, West Bengal 700064
All Full time courses
Indian Institute of Engineering Science and
Technology, Shibpur, West Bengal
P.O. - Botanic Garden, Howrah, West Bengal
All Full time courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
Footwear Design & Development Institute, Noida,
A-10/A, Sector 24, Gautam Budh Nagar, Noida,
Uttar Pradesh 201301
All Full time courses
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research
Karakambadi Road, Rami Reddy Nagar, Mangalam
(P.O.), Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh 517507
All Full time courses
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Pusa, New Delhi
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Pusa, Library Avenue, New Delhi, Delhi 110012
Hotel Management Courses
ihm ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 382421
Hotel Management Courses
Alto Porvorim, Bardez, Goa 403521
Hotel Management Courses
Pusa, Library Avenue, New Delhi, Delhi 110012
Hotel Management Courses
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
1100 Quarters, Near Academy of Administration,
Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462016
Hotel Management Courses
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
F-Row, D.D.Colony, Vidya Nagar, Hyderabad,
Hotel Management Courses
Sikar Road, Bani Park, Jaipur, Rajasthan 302016
Hotel Management Courses
Sector G, Sector L, Aliganj, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
SVS Rd, Aparna Vaibhav Society, Dadar West,
Mumbai, Maharashtra 400028
Mawdiangdiang, East Khasi Hills District, Shillong,
Ramashish Chowk, Hajipur – 844 101, Vaishali,
Hotel Management Courses
Hotel Management Courses
Hotel Management Courses
Hotel Management Courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Shimla Himachal Pradesh
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh
IHM, Kufri- Shimla
Hotel Management Courses
Rajbagh, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir 190008
Jammu and Kashmir
Hotel Management Courses
G.V.Raja Road, Kovalam, Thiruvananthapuram,
Hotel Management Courses
Airport Road, Maharajpura, Gwalior(M.P.) -474005 Madhya Pradesh
Hotel Management Courses
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Mahapurush Madhabdev Path, Upper Hengrabari,
Opp. Doordarshan Colony, Hengerabari, Borbari,
Guwahati, Assam 781036
Hotel Management Courses
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Chennai, Tamil Nadu
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
4 th Cross Street, C.I.T Campus, TTTI – Taramani
P.O.,Chennai – 600 113,
Near Indian Overseas Bank, V.S.S. Nagar,
Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751007
Hotel Management Courses
Hotel Management Courses
Institute of Hotel Management, Catering & Nutrition,
Mahapurush Madhabdev Path, Upper Hengrabari,
Opp. Doordarshan Colony, Hengerabari, Borbari,
Guwahati, Assam 781036
Hotel Management Courses
Indian Institute of tourism & Travel Management,
Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh
University Rd, Kailash Nagar, Govindpuri, Gwalior,
Madhya Pradesh 474011
Hotel Management Courses
240 B.J. Medical College, Ahmedabad
New Civil Hospital, Civil Hospital Rd, Haripura,
Asarwa, Ahmedabad, Gujarat 380016
241 Government Medical College, Calicut
Medical College Road, Kozhikode, Kerala 673008
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
242 King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai
Acharya Donde Marg, Parel, Mumbai, Maharashtra
National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with
Multiple Disabilities, Chennai, Tamil Nadu (Under
M/o Social Justice & Empowerment)
East Coast Road, Kanchipuram, Tamil Nadu
Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Delhi (M/o
IIFT Bhawan, B-21, NRPC Colony, Block B, Qutab
Institutional Area, New Delhi, Delhi 110016
Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, Kolkata (M/o
1583, Chowbagha Road, Ward No 108, Borough
XII, Madurdaha, Kolkata, West Bengal 700107
Indian Institute of Packaging, Mumbai (M/o
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research,
Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Indian Institute of Science Education and Research,
250 Indian Institute of Information Technology, Raichur
251 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mangalagiri
252 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur
253 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda
Plot E-2, Rd Number 8, Chakala Industrial Area
(MIDC), Andheri East, Mumbai, Maharashtra
Engineering School Road, NH-59, Berhampur-
760010, District Ganjam
Bhagalpur College of Engineering Campus Sabour,
Bhagalpur - 813210
Post Graduate Diploma in Packaging
All Full time courses
All Full time courses
Bhopal Bypass Road, Bhauri, Bhopal  462 066
All Full time courses
Indian Institute of Technology, Kandi, Sangareddy-
MG Capmus, Mangalagiri, Guntur District Andhra
Plot No 2, Sector-20, MIHAN, Maharashtra -
Mandi Dabwali Road, Bathinda
All Full time courses
All Full time courses
All Full time courses
All Full time courses
Government of India
Ministry of Tribal Affairs
Revised List of 265 Institutes Eligible for Scholarship under National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST Students
(Top Class Scholarship Scheme)  for 2023-24 onwards
Name of the Institute
254 Dharmashastra National Law University, Jabalpur
BRBRAITT Campus South Civil Lines, Ridge Road
All Law Courses including integrated
Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Vadodara - International Campus Diu
Education Hub, Kevdi - Diu (U.T) - 362520
Daman and Diu
All Full time courses
256 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bibinagar
Bibinagar, Telangana 508126
All Full time courses
257 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Deoghar
Deoghar, Jharkhand -814152
All Full time courses
258 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Gorakhpur
Kunraghat, Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh -273008
All Full time courses
259 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Kalyani
NH - 34 Connector Basantapur, Saguna, Kalyani,
West Bengal - 741245
All Full time courses
260 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Raebareli
Dalmau Rd, Munshiganj, Uttar Pradesh 229405
All Full time courses
261 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Guwahati
Silbharal Changsari, Guwahati, Assam -781101
All Full time courses
262 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bilaspur
Changar Palasiyan, Himachal Pradesh 174001
All Full time courses
263 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rajkot
Khanderi, Para Pipaliya, Rajkot, Gujarat, 360006
All Full time courses
264 All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jammu
Vijaypur, Jammu and Kashmir, 180001
Jammu and Kashmir
All Full time courses
265 Indian Institute of Management, Jammu
Canal Road Nawabad, Cantonment, Jammu,
Jammu and Kashmir - 180016
Jammu and Kashmir
All full time Management Courses
The name of Institute at Sl. No. 82 in Top Class List "Indian Institute of Technology, Dhanbad" has been changed from Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad.,  as per notification no. S.O.2872(E) of No. 2173, Para II
Section 3 Sub Section (ii) of The Gazette of India dated 06.09.2016