Strategy | Center for Technology Foresight and Policy | IIT Jodhpur
Specific  strategies for achieving the  goals will be based on  the tactical activities  that  are listed below: Center will have  affiliate faculty from among the  faculty of the institute.  They will have  secondary affiliation with  the centre. Centre  will have  provision for  regular or Adjunct Professor of  Practice, Visiting  Professor and  Adjunct Professor  to take its  agenda forward. Centre will  appoint  Post-Docs  with will-defined research  agenda  aligned  to its  goals, based upon requirements. An online  Certification/Diploma/Degree  on Strategic Foresight- Principles and Practice  -in  line with the institute commitment to   NEP-2020. Constantly update  the  website. A DST conference  – reactivate and conduct . Monthly expert talk. An International conference on Technology  and  Foresight – An ode to the Future. Creating  a Board of  Advisor and Expert associated the center. To work on  embedding foresight in  thee academic  and research  plan of departments/schools/IDRPs and/or Launching new  IDPRs/schools/departments  based upon  Technology Foresight Train Policymakers, government officials, executives,  managers and other professionals on Technology  Foresight techniques. Produce Technology Foresight  reports  and presentations for private-sector and  public-sector policymakers. Focus  on  target industries  such  as  agriculture, healthcare , finance & insurance, transportation,  supply chain, pharmaceutical & chemical, utilities  & energy, education, IT infrastructure, telecommunications, Biotechnology, Manufacturing, etc. Identify  evolving  and  futuristic  technologies  and  nurturing them  initially. Use  methodologies such  as: Scenario  planning, Backcasting, Forecasting, Decision-Trees, Techcasting. Using partners for collaboration on foresight-based activities. for eg. Muliverz as an industrial  partner can be looked at for: Techcasting: Multiverz is  developing a platform for technology forecasting. IITJ  could use  and provide feedback  on its functionality, Collective  Intelligence:  Multivers could establish  a ‘prediction market’ for  technology. IITJ could support its development, and evangelize student participation, Grand  challenges:  Multiverz could help  identify and jointly  pitch for such projects., Industry: Multiverz could work with IITJ  on  its SME transformation project and its subsequent  scale  up., Goverment:  Multiverz could help design a program on anticipatory regulation, and R&D forecasting.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 25 Feb 2026 - 02:57 PM