Project title: Magnetars with superfluid core
Department of Science and Technology, SERB
Total 36 Months, 12 months more
Neutron stars are excellent candidates to probe the dense matter. In the conventional picture,
extremely dense neutron star interior is mainly composed of neutrons, with a small amount of protons and
electrons in beta equilibrium. It is also generally believed that the matter inside neutron stars is in
superfluid phase owing to the Cooper pair formation by nucleons.
It is theoretically conjectured that neutron stars are associated with very strong magnetic fields ranging
from 108 to 1016 G. Neutron stars with ultra-strong magnetic field strength exceeding 1013 G are
categorized as special group, popularly known as magnetar. Anomalous X-ray pulsars and soft gamma-
ray repeaters are classes of candidates identified as magnetars.
From the existing studies, it has been noticed that most of the researchers assume a priori that the
magnetic field does not influence the superconductivity of protons, with the exception of several recent
studies. However, if the fields are strong enough the cores of the flux tubes come into contact and the
superconductivity is destroyed.
In one of our
recent studies the upper critical
field for proton
superconductivity inside neutron stars has been estimated within the Ginzburg-Landau theory including
entrainment between proton and neutron condensates. Constructing models of neutron stars for realistic
nucleonic equation of state, the volume occupied by the superconducting region has been derived from the
microscopic calculations of proton pairing gap in dense matter. It has been observed that magnetars with
surface field B ≥ 1015 G are either partially or completely non-superconducting, precise nature being
dependent on the relation between the surface dipolar field and the field intensity at the crust-core
The quenching of proton superconductivity demands extensive theoretical studies of the interior
configuration and composition of neutron stars. The problem is very important since the presence
(absence) of superfluid components has a strong impact on neutron star interior dynamics as well as many
microscopic processes which might manifest in cooling, (anti-)glitch, postglitch relaxation, precession of
the broad objective of
to find the implications of quenched
superconducting phase inside the magnetized neutron stars on its dynamical properties and their
consequences on the observed magnetar properties.
Compact objects – Neutron stars – Magnetars – Superconductivity – Cooling – Rotational Dynamics
Objective in Bullets:
 To study the neutrino cooling of magnetars with superfluid core
 To study the rotational dynamics of magnetars with quenched proton superconductivity
 To link the result with the observed properties of neutron stars: (anti)glitch, quasi periodic
Outcome and Output:
The composition and equation of state of dense matter inside the neutron star is yet an interesting subject
in view of the recent observations, mainly the observed neutron stars with mass close to 2 Msun and rapid
cooling of Cassiopea A. Such kind of matter cannot be obtained in our laboratory. So only way to study
such highly dense matter is to relate the theoretical results with the observations of compact objects.
Reach fields in this context are cooling, (anti)glitch of magnetar with/without superfluid matter inside
compact objects. From this point of view the study mentioned in this project will enrich the theory of
composition and interaction of highly dense matter which will be helpful to understand certain
astrophysical observations. Briefly it will shed light on
1. Composition and EoS of highly dense matter
2. Presence or absence of superfluidity inside compact objects
3. The nucleon paring interactions
4. Effect of ultra-strong surface magnetic field on the interior of compact objects composition as well
as other internal configuration such as rotational dynamics etc. from the comparison of
theoretically obtained result with the current observations.