Global Initiative for Academic Networking (GIAN) Phase IV
1.  Dates  of  Proposal  Submission:  The  proposals may be submitted throughout the year. At least
four months will be required for the process of review to final approval.
2.  Eligibility of participation:
a.  All Institutions which had already participated in GIAN Phase-I, Phase–II, and Phase-III.
b.  All central and State Govt. Institutions that are in the top 200 in NIRF overall rankings.
3.  Proposal format & funding:
a.  Course proposals should have a duration of either 5 days or 10 days.
b.  The course can be conducted in virtual or in-person mode. However, in-person courses will
be given priority.
c.  The minimum number of lecture hours (excluding tutorial/practical) should be 12.
d.  Normally, course proposals are expected to be between 12-14 lecture hours in a 5-day course
and 24-28 lecture hours in a 10-day course. More than 14 hours of lectures covered in 5 days
will be considered as a 5-day course.
e.  Course proposals of more than 10-day duration/28 lectures and less than 2 months duration
will be allowed with no extra financial support.
f.  For  courses  being  conducted  in  in-person  mode:  USD  8,000  (for  a  5-day  course)  and
USD 12,000 (for a 10-day course) will be paid for the GIAN course to support (i) travel and
honorarium  for  the  foreign  faculty  (ii)  honorarium for the host faculty & local coordinator
(iii) video recording (iv) incidental/contingency expenses.
g.  For  courses  being  conducted  in  virtual  mode:  The  total  funding  for  the  course  will  be
USD  3,500  for  a  5-day  course  and  USD  6,500  for  a  10-day  course.  This  would  include
contingency and honoraria for all the course instructors.
h.  An  institute  is  permitted  to  submit  a  maximum  of  50  proposals  with  a  maximum  of  2
proposals per host faculty/course coordinator per year.
i.  The  foreign  faculty  should be holding a passport of any country other than India or should
have a permanent foreign affiliation.
j.  The  Association  of  each  Foreign  faculty/expert  would  be  restricted  to  a  maximum  of  2
distinctly different proposals in a year.
k.  Minimum 60% of the course including lectures and tutorials should be taught by the foreign
l.  Rs. 83 per USD will be paid for each course irrespective of the actual conversion rate for the
financial year 2024-25. This will be reviewed again and fixed for subsequent financial years.
4.  Proposal Reviewing Mechanism:
a.  Each  proposal  will  be  reviewed  by  subject  experts  selected  by  the  chairperson  of  the
concerned sectional committee. The sectional committee chairs will give a recommendation
and a relative score to each course.
b.  Recommended proposals will be approved by the GIAN implementation committee chaired
by the Secretary (HE), MoE.
c.  The  sanction  orders  for  the  approved  courses  will  be  issued  by the National Coordinating
d.  Each reviewer would be paid Rs. 2,000/- per review if completed within 3 weeks.
e.  The  Chairperson  of  the  sectional  committee  would  be  paid  Rs.  1,000/-  per  proposal  for
coordinating the review process and timely recommendation of the proposal to the national
f.  National Coordinator/Co-Coordinator would be paid Rs. 1,000/- per submitted proposal for
overall coordination of the GIAN program.
5.  Common guidelines for the conduct of approved GIAN courses:
a.  The  host  institute  should  ensure  the  organizing  the  approved  courses  as per the scheduled
date and duration of the proposals.
b.  As soon as the course is approved and the same has been intimated to the respective course
coordinator,  course  coordinator  needs  to  submit  the  course  brochure  (as  per  the  attached
format)  with final dates (in consultation with foreign faculty) within 15 days of intimation.
Subsequently, the sanction order will be issued by the national coordinating institute.
c.  The  courses  offered  by  a  host  institution  should  be  made  available  for  participation  from
other  Institutions.  In  general,  it  is  not  expected that more than 50% of participants will be
from the Host Institution.
d.  Video  recording  of  all  courses  is  mandatory.  The recording should be of high quality. The
local coordinator should make sure that the video and audio quality is satisfactory.
e.  Collection of feedback of participants for each course through the GIAN portal is mandatory.
f.  Since  the  intent  of  the  GIAN  course  would  be  to  nucleate  opportunities  for  collaboration
with  the  host  department/  institute,  the  Foreign  Expert  may  also  be  asked  to  present  an
institute- level talk on the research theme. Online meetings with interested faculty to explore
collaborative  opportunities  may  be held and recorded. Also, a document highlighting these
opportunities as well as a tentative plan on how they will be pursued (i.e., funding agencies,
student  and/or  faculty  exchange,  joint  industry  workshops,  …)  may  be  outlined  in  the
document by the course coordinator/ Local Coordinator.
g.  Conduct  of  examination  or  continuous  evaluation  including  quizzes  and  assignment  is
required for participants wishing to get graded for the course.
h.  Course  lectures  may  be  telecast  through  the  Swayam  Prabha  Channels  for  which  the
EMRCs  may  be  authorized/  equipped  by  providing  inputs  as  desired.  Necessary  consent
from  the  faculty  should  be  obtained  for  telecasting  the  lectures  through  Swayam  Prabha
i.  The  course  coordinator/  local  coordinator  of  the  host  institute  should  submit  the  online
course completion report.
j.  A  copy  of  the  lecture  notes  (hard  bound  copy  and  PDFs)  and  video  recording  of  all  the
lectures and tutorials (in a DVD or a pen drive) to be sent to the national coordination team
within  one  month  of  course  completion.  The  local  coordinator  should  also  maintain  a
repository of all the course material.
k.  The  course  coordinator/  local  coordinator  of  the  Host  Institute  should  submit  the  Online
fund utilization certificate for each course.
l.  Registration  fee  from  student  participants  should  not be more than Rs. 1,000 for a 1-week
course  and  Rs.  2,000  for  a  2-weeks  course.  The  host  institute  can  apply  any  additional
conditions on the collection and utilization of the registration fee.
6.  Guidelines for the conduct of approved GIAN courses (in-person mode):
a.  The instructors as well as participants should join in-person.
b.  Video recording, contingencies and other expenses should not exceed 35% of the total fund
provided for a course.
c.  The  balance  amount  can  be  utilized  for  travel  and  honorarium  of  foreign  faculty  and
honorarium of national/host faculty.
d.  A maximum of Rs. 5,000/- per course may be earmarked to the local coordinator for office
expenses and honorarium, from the contingency expense of the course.
e.  The  host  faculty  and  other  Indian  instructors  may  get  an honorarium at the rate of 5,000/-
per  lecture  hour  and  3,000/-  per  tutorial  hour,  subject  to  a  maximum  total  of  12
f.  The  type  of  visa  applicable  for  the  foreign  expert  will  typically  be  a  Business  Visa.
Invitation letter to the foreign expert for the purpose of VISA will be issued by the Head of
the  host  institute.  Foreign expert faculty who have an overseas citizen of India (OCI) card,
are however exempted from this requirement.
7.  Guidelines for the conduct of approved GIAN courses (Virtual mode):
a.  Foreign  faculty/experts  are  permitted  to  teach  GIAN  courses  in  virtual  mode.  The  course
coordinator  should arrange to stream the lectures live as well as record them. Streaming of
prerecorded lectures is not permitted.
b.  Students may attend the GIAN courses in virtual mode or in-person mode.
c.  Recordings of each module of the course should contain the screenshots of all the attendees
at the end.
d.  Live  links  for  virtual  lectures  should  be  shared  with the national coordinating Institute for
e.  Collection of feedback of participants for each course through the GIAN portal is mandatory.
f.  Recordings  of the GIAN course should be sent to the national coordinating Institute within
15 days of the completion of the course.
g.  The  course  coordinator/  local  coordinator  of  the  host  institute  should  submit  the  Course
completion report within 15 days of the completion of the course in the GIAN portal.
h.  Foreign faculty is not entitled to get a travel allowance. Only honorarium for foreign faculty
teaching in virtual mode will be paid.
i.  Honorarium for foreign faculty will be limited to USD 250 per hour.
j.  The  national  faculty/host  faculty  will  get  an  honorarium  at  the  rate  of  5,000/-  per  lecture
hour and 3,000/- per tutorial hour, subject to a maximum total of 12 lectures & tutorials.
k.  A maximum of Rs. 20,000/- can be earmarked as contingency fund for the course.
l.  From the contingency expense, a maximum of Rs. 5,000/- per course may be earmarked to
the local coordinator for office expenses and honorarium.
m.  The  total  funding  for  the  course  will  be  USD  3,500  for  1-week  course  (12  hrs) and USD
6,500 for a 2-week course (24 hrs).
n.  A course approved for in-person mode may be changed to virtual mode by making a request
to the National coordinator along with a proper justification.