Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
IITJ/ 2022-23/Post-Doctoral Fellowship/38; dated 19 December 2022
Advertisement for Prof. Meghnad Saha Post-Doctoral Fellowships for
SC/ST/NCL-OBC/EWS Categories at IIT Jodhpur
In order to provide an option to young Ph. D’s (belonging to SC /ST/ NCL-OBC/EWS categories) to
have  rich  post-doctoral  research  and  teaching  experience,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  proposed  to  institute  a  Post-
Doctoral Research Fellowship in the 75th year of India’s freedom in remembrance of Prof. Meghnad Saha,
an  eminent  astro-physicist  and  an  advocate  for  science  based  national  development.  The  details  and
guidelines of the fellowship are given below:
2.1. Applicant’s Eligibility
The scheme is open only for SC/ST/NCL-OBC/EWS candidates who are citizens of India. Preference will be
for Ph.D.’s in Engineering and Science. One can apply for this scheme immediately after submission of the
Ph.D.  thesis, till completion of three years from Ph.D. defence.  The scheme  is  also open for candidates
who are currently employed full time in teaching institutes across the country.
2.2. Age Limit
The  upper  age  limit  for  the  Post-Doctoral  fellowship  is  38  years  at  the  time  of  the  submission  of
The tenure will be for a maximum of two years and the fellowship will be purely a temporary assignment.
Minimum duration of the fellowship will be six months.
2.4. Fellowship Grant
Post-Doctoral Fellow shall be paid a fellowship amount of  Rs. 75,000/- per month will be available after
the defence of the Ph. D. thesis, whereas Rs. 55,000/- per month will be awarded before the defence of
the Ph.D. thesis. They will be entitled to house rent as per DST norm or hostel accommodation based upon
availability of rooms.
The fellows will be eligible for 15 days of leave per calendar year.
The candidate will be engaged in UG/PG teaching/teaching assistance for 10 hours per week.
General Instruction to Applicants:
Interested candidates may apply with all the details requested in ONLINE application placed on the online
portal of IIT Jodhpur (www.iitj.ac.in). Further.
1.  The candidates are required to submit Online application with a detailed CV and a research proposal.
Proposals are expected to be aligned with the active thematic research groups in the institute.
2.  This is a rolling advertisement and applications are welcomed throughout the year. The first round of
application  deadline  is  one  month  from  the  date  of  advertisement,  however  positions  will  remain
open until filled. The applicants are required to apply only through ONLINE process only and upload
relevant documents accordingly. Please do not send any hard copy of the document.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
IITJ/ 2022-23/Post-Doctoral Fellowship/38; dated 19 December 2022
3.  Selection process will involve shortlisting at relevant academic unit and shortlisted candidates will be
called for presentation on the proposed work and interview.
4.  The  performance  of  the  Post-Doctoral  Fellow(s)  will  be  assessed  by  the  Performance  Assessment
Committee  (PAC)  as  per  Institute’s  norms.  The  performance  of  a  fellow  will  be  evaluated  after  the
one year by a committee and based on satisfactory performance only the fellowship will be extended
further for second year.
5.  The positions are purely on contract/temporary basis.
6.  The candidate will be engaged as per the norms of the Institute.
7.  The  fellows  are  not  eligible  to  receive  any  other  fellowship  from  any  Government  or  Non-
Governmental source during the tenure of the fellowship.
8.  Application  with  insufficient  information  or  without  relevant  supporting  documents  will  not  be
considered for further processing.
9.  The  Institute  may  verify  the  antecedents  or  documents  submitted  by  a  person  at  the  time  of
appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents submitted
by  the  candidates  are  fake  or  the  candidate  has  a  clandestine  antecedents  or  background  and  has
suppressed the said information, then his or her services shall be terminated.
10. The  prescribed  essential  qualification  and  experience  indicated  are  bare  minimum,  and  mere
possessions  of  same  will  not  entitle  the  applicants  to  be  called  for  interview.  Where  number  of
applications  received  in  response  to  an  advertisement  is  large,  it  may  not  be  convenient  and/or
possible for the Institute to conduct interview for all the applicants. In such cases, the Institute may
restrict  the  number  of  applicants  to  be  called  for  interview  to  a  reasonable  limit,  on  the  basis  of
qualification  and  experience  higher  than  that  of  the  minimum  prescribed  in  the  advertisement.
Therefore, applicants should furnish details of all the qualifications and experience possessed in the
relevant field, over and above (if any) the minimum qualification prescribed along with documentary
11. In case of exceptional candidates, the Institute reserves the right to relax age, qualifications and/or
experience.  Applicants  are  requested  to  upload  the  certificates  in  required  format  along  with  the
12. The Institute reserves the right to fill or not to fill any or all of the advertised posts.