Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
B.Tech. in Bioengineering
1 | P a g e
B.Tech. in Bioengineering
2 | P a g e
Every life form, beginning from microscopic bacteria to multicellular organisms, can be considered as a
system  that  has  been  perfected  over  millennia  by  Evolution.  Beginning  from  thermodynamically
efficient  cellular  processes  to  the  molecular  motors  driving  the  bacterial  flagella,  each  product  of
evolution  is  an  optimized  engineering  design  that  can  be  translated  into  real-life  applications  across
disciplines.  Today’s  interdisciplinary  biology  is  well  complemented  by  engineering  domains  including
electronics,  computer  science,  mechanics,  and  materials  engineering.    Computational  biology,  for
example, permits solving biology problems using statistical, artificial intelligence and machine learning
approaches.  Extensive  use  of  computational  biology  is  essential  in  data-driven  approaches  including
Genomics,  Proteomics,  Transcriptomics,  and  Metabolomics.  This  amalgamation  of  biology  and
computer science has transformed the landscape of the infectious and non-infectious diseases research
allowing  the  development  of  new  diagnostic  and  therapeutic  modalities.  Today’s  disease  diagnosis  is
much more specific and sensitive, thanks to biosensors, which have far-reaching applications not only
in  healthcare  but  also  in  the  environment,  energy,  and  agriculture.  Some  applications  include  in-situ
biosensors  for  human  biochemical  parameters,  environmental  contaminants,  soil  moisture,  soil
physicochemical  parameters,  etc.  Advances in  Biology  have  not  only  permitted  the  early diagnosis  of
disease  but  have  also  contributed  abundantly  to  therapeutic  interventions.  It  is  now  possible  to
intervene  in  diseases  taking  a  multi-pronged  approach,  including  the  development  of  new  drugs;
production  of  recombinant  therapeutics;  development  of  implantable  sensors,  control  systems;  and
editing  genetic  defects.  Similarly,  synthetic  biology  and  genome  editing  tools  have  enabled  the
development  of  industrially  important  organisms  for  biofuel  production  as  well  as  environmental
remediation.  Together,  these  technologies  have  significantly  contributed  to  extending  the  healthy
lifespan  of  the  human  race  and  have  shown  promise  towards  food,  water,  and  energy  security.  In
other words, bioengineering as a discipline has evolved to a great extent in last couple of decades and
now  demands  a  different  intellectual  outlook  and  scientific  understanding  for  its  further  study.
Therefore, an undergraduate academic program in Bioengineering should reflect this rapid evolution of
the discipline, underlying scientific and technological advancements and interdisciplinary cross talk so
as to capture the mind of the next generation.
The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur is committed to achieving excellence in shaping the young
minds of tomorrow with a unique blend of teaching techniques and hands-on research-based learning.
The Institute works towards the holistic development of students allowing them to be able to assume
leadership  positions  in  Industry,  Academia,  and  Entrepreneurial  ventures.  The  Department  of
Bioscience & Bioengineering is committed to this goal and has developed academic programs that are
interdisciplinary  in  nature  and  include  a  substantial  component  of  courses  from  other  science  and
engineering Departments. The Department aspires to produce Graduates, who can develop solutions to
tackle local and global problems related to healthcare, energy, environment, water, and food.
2. Objectives of the program
The  B.  Tech.  program  in  Bioengineering  at  IIT  Jodhpur  aims  to  equip  our  graduates  with  in-depth
knowledge  and  hands-on  training  in  areas  that  will  be  relevant  for  the  next  decade.  The  curriculum
aims to impart knowledge and skills to budding engineers to address future challenges. This includes
innovative pedagogy and highly interdisciplinary approach towards problem-solving.
The key objectives of this program are:
(i)  To  provide  a strong  foundational  understanding  of  concepts  in  biology,  engineering,  mathematics,
and  allied  sciences,  enabling  students  to  approach  bioengineering  problems  through  interdisciplinary
(ii) To stimulate the development of disruptive technologies and futuristic research in the domains of
healthcare, energy, and the environment
3. Expected Graduate Attributes
3 | P a g e
Graduates of the B. Tech program in Bioengineering will:
(i)  be  able  to  choose,  design,  develop,  and  implement  engineering  solutions  to  solve  technical
problems in bioscience and bioengineering using trans-disciplinary knowledge and skill set.
(ii)  be  able  to  think  out-of-  the  box  to  solve  critical  challenges  and  be  able  to  innovate  novel
technologies for affordable healthcare, clean energy, sustainable agriculture, and safe environment.
(iii) be able to work effectively as a member and leader in a multi-disciplinary team.
(iv) have the requisite skills and knowledge to be bio-entrepreneurs.
(v)  be  able  to  effectively  communicate  biological/  bioengineering  problems  and  solutions  within  the
professional sphere and with the society at large.
(vi) be committed to high ethical standards in professional and social practices.
4. Learning Outcomes
Graduates of the B. Tech program in Bioengineering:
(i) Will have a comprehensive understanding of the essential concepts of bioscience and bioengineering
encompassing  cell  and  molecular  biology,  physiology,  immunology,  microbiology,  genetics,  genetic
engineering, multi-omics, computational and systems biology.
(ii)  Will  gain  trans-disciplinary  knowledge  and  skill  sets  pertaining  to  biosensors,  bioimaging,
biomedical device development, biomaterials engineering and drug discovery.
(iii)  Will  be  able  to  design,  develop  and  implement  technological  solutions  related  to  affordable
healthcare,  clean  energy,  sustainable  agriculture  and  safe  environment  adopting  a  trans-disciplinary
(iv)  Will  gain  a  strong  understanding  of  the  fundamentals  of  basic  science,  engineering,  designing,
computing and will get hands-on training on cutting edge technologies.
(v)  Will  be  able  to  apply  the  knowledge  of  artificial  intelligence  and  machine  learning  in  solving
complex biological problems.
(vi) Will learn to think critically to solve complex problems pertaining to bioscience and bioengineering.
(vii)  Will  develop  communication  skills  (verbal  and  written)  to  communicate  effectively  in  the
professional and social sphere.
(viii) Will be committed to high ethical standards.
(ix) Will gain the knowledge and skills required to be an innovator-entrepreneur.
5. New skill sets targeted
(i)design and develop AI-based technologies in healthcare, environment, and agriculture.
(ii) analyze spatial complexity of living systems using imaging and image processing.
(iii) analyze and solve complex problems in the diverse fields of bioscience and bioengineering using
omics and systems biology.
(iv) integrate  multidisciplinary technologies for the development of lab-on-chip devices, biosensors,
and other smart devices.
(v) integrate omics data to quantitative structure-activity relationship for drug discovery and
(vi) design and develop smart biomaterials using micro- and nano-scale technologies
(vii) design novel strategies for tissue engineering application
(viii) design new therapeutic molecules in silico.
6. Topic clouds and Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed courses
4 | P a g e
Table 1 Topics and Mapping of Topic with Courses
•  Cells and organelles
•  Transcription and
•  Cell cycle
Core and Techniques
•  DNA, RNA, Proteins,
Core and Techniques
Cell Biology (PC 4th)
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
•  Metabolic pathways
•  Biochemical analysis
•  Polymerase chain
•  Gene therapy
•  Mass Spectroscopy
•  Microbial communities
•  Metagenome library
•  Metagenome sequencing
Core, Techniques and
Genetics & Gene
Manipulation (PC 5th)
Core and Techniques
Core and Techniques  Microbiomes and
•  Biological networks and
•  Data modeling
•  Multi-omics integration
•  Omics analysis
•  DNA microarray
•  Data normalization
•  Data visualization
Core, Techniques and
•  Neural network
•  Deep learning models
•  Deep generative  models
•  Representation learning
•  Biocompatibility and
Core, Techniques and
5 | P a g e
methods for multi-
Deep Learning  (PC
machine Learning (PC
Engineering (PC 6th)
•  Cell adhesion on
Core and Techniques
•  Biofilm formation
•  Surface modification
•  Tissue repair and
•  Animal cell culture
•  Sustained, on-demand
and targeted delivery
•  Drug loading and drug
•  Pharmacokinetics and
Core, Techniques and
Core, Techniques and
•  Human locomotion
•  Tissue mechanics
•  3D printing
•  Field deposition model
•  Selective laser sintering
•  Momentum conservation
Core and Systems
•  Bio computation
•  Mathematical modelling
Core and Techniques
Engineering (PC 6th)
Engineering (PC 6th)
Engineering (PC 6th)
Engineering (PC 6th)
Engineering (PC 6th)
(From BSBE, CHE,
System Biology (PC
Cell Biology (PC 4th)
•  Numerical Methods for
Core and Techniques  Mathematical Biology
•  Ordinary Differential
•  Methods and method
Core, Techniques and
(PE) (From MA)
Biology (PC 5th)
Algorithms in biology
•  Boundary conditions
Core and Techniques    Modelling biological
6 | P a g e
•  Experiment design
•  Optical microscopy
•  Fluorescence microscopy
•  Digital imaging
•  Medical imaging
Core, Techniques and
•  Fourier transform theory
•  Deep learning
•  2D, 3D registration
•  Electron scattering and
•  Scanning and
Immuno and cryo-
•  Selectivity and
Core, Techniques and
•  Genetic circuits for
•  RNA based sensors
•  Reporter genes
•  Aptamer sensor
•  Cation-selective sensor
•  Dendrimer based sensor
Core and Systems
Bioimaging (PC 6th)
Bioimaging (PC 6th)
(PE) (From CS)
Bioimaging (PC 6th)
for biology (PE)
Bioimaging (PC 6th)
Biosensors (PC 5th)
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
Whole cell based
Biosensors (PC 5th)
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
•  Microbial phylogeny
•  Microbial growth
•  Applied microbiology
•  Wastewater treatment
•  Bio-geo chemical cycling
7 | P a g e
•  Solid waste
In situ and ex situ
•  Probiotic, symbiotic,
•  Nutritional supplements
•  Single cell protein
•  Solid , liquid, gaseous
•  Engineering microbes for
•  Different generations of
•  Protein crystallography
•  Protein folding
Core and Techniques
•  Drug targets
•  Computer-aided drug
Core, Techniques and
•  Virtual screening
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
Microbes in food and
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
Microbiology (PC 3rd)
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
Principles of Drug
Biochemistry (PC 3rd)
•  Drug metabolism
•  Chiral drug molecule
•  Antibiotics and antiviral
•  Virus life cycle
•  Viral immunity
•  Antiviral drugs
•  Cell signaling
•  B- and T-cell
•  Clinical immunology
•  Muscle mechanics
•  Membrane potential
Core and Techniques  Medicinal chemistry
Core, Techniques and
Core and Techniques
Viral infection and
The Human Immune
to Detect, Defend
and Attack (PC 4th)
The Human Machine
Physiology (PC 5th)
8 | P a g e
7. Course Categories, credit distribution and Credit Structure of B. Tech
Table 2 Proposed Course Categories and credit distribution in the proposed B. Tech Programmes
Institute Core (I)
Programme Compulsory (PC)
Programme Electives (PE)
B.Tech. Project (PP)
Open Electives (OE)
Programme Linked (L)
Programme Core (P)
Engineering Science (E)  Engineering Science Core (EC)
Engineering Science Elective (EE)
Design/Practical Experience (ND)
Total Graded + Non-Graded
8. Credit Structure of B. Tech Programmes
Table 3. Credit Structure for B. Tech Programmes (Up 6000 Level)
1 hour of Lecture
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Lab/Project
Distribution of contact and beyond
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc.
9. List of Programme Compulsory Courses
Table 4 Programme Compulsory Courses
3  Data Structures and Algorithms
Concepts and Dynamics: Molecular
The Human Immune System:
9 | P a g e
Mechanisms to detect, defend and
Computational and Systems Biology
The Human Machine for Engineers:
Biophysics and Structural Biology
10  Genetics and Gene manipulation
14  Biomaterials Engineering
15  Deep Learning
10. Area-wise Programme Elective Courses
Table 5 Stream-wise Programme Electives Courses
-  Microbiomes and metagenomics (level 4)
-  Computational methods for multi-omics
-  Microarray data analysis (level 4)
-  Cell-material interactions (level 3)
-  Tissue engineering (level 4)
-  Therapeutic delivery systems (level 4)
-  Principles of biomechanics (level 4; from
-  Additive manufacturing (level 7; from ME)
-  Bio-transport phenomena (level 4)
-  Mathematical biology (level 7; from MA)
-  Algorithms in biology (level 6)
-  Modelling of biological systems (level 3)
-  Design of experiments (level 4; from MA)
-  Electron microscopy for biology (level 4/6;
-  Special topics on biomedical imaging
-  Digital Image processing (level 4; from CS)
-  Bio-image computing (level 7; CS)
-  Whole cell based biosensors (level 4)
-  Special topics in biosensors (level 4)
-  Microsystems fabrication technology (level
7; from EE)
-  Chemosensors (level 6; from CY)
-  Microbial remediation and environmental
biotechnology (level 4)
-  Microbes in food and sustainable agriculture
10 | P a g e
-  Bioenergy (level 4)
-  Principles of drug discovery (level 4)
-  Medicinal chemistry (level 4)
-  Viral infection and antiviral drug
development (level 4)
11. Specialization to be offered by the department
Table 6 Specialization and courses
- Modern approaches of drug
- Introduction to Precision
- AI based drug discovery (2-0-
- Engineering Microbes (3-0-0)
- Bioprocess Engineering and
- Mathematical modelling of
-  Principles of drug discovery
-  Medicinal chemistry (3-0-0)
-  Viral infection and antiviral
drug development (3-0-0)
-  Antimicrobial drugs and drug
-  Anticancer drug discovery and
-  Modern approaches for
-  Novel Drug Delivery Systems
-  Theranostic Systems (3-0-0)
Industry collaborated project
4 credit (0-0-6) x 1
-  Microbial nanotechnology (3-
-  Metabolic engineering for
-  Microbial remediation and
-  Microbes in food and
-  Bioenergy (3-0-0)
-  Soil microbiome & microbial
-  Biofilms: Bacterial
-  Gut microbiomes in health
and diseases (3-0-0)
-  Downstream processing
Industry collaborated project
4 credit (0-0-6) x 1
11 | P a g e
12. Curriculum of B.Tech. Bioengineering (Regular)
Table  7a. Curriculum of B.Tech in BB
CH  NC  GC
CH  NC  GC
IS  Chemistry Lab
IS  Mathematics I
NH  Social Connect
NH  Performing Arts I
IS  Mathematics II
NE  Engineering Design II
-  NH  Communication Skill
-  NH  Social Connect and
-  NH  Performing Arts
Total  11-2-12  25
Total  12-1-14  27
IE  Materials Science &
Data Structure and
The Human Immune
to Detect, Defend
Intro. To Profession   0-0-2
IH  Humanities I
Total  18-2-6  26
12 | P a g e
Genetics and Gene
Program Elective -I
NH  Professional Ethics
PE  Program Elective -II
NH  Professional Ethics II
Total  18-1-6  25  1
PP  B. Tech. Project
Open Electives -
IH  Humanities III
IH  Humanities IV
Elective V & VI
Open Electives -III
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit
Non-Graded Design Credits
Grand Total   15  165
13 | P a g e
Distribution of courses in 7th & 8th Semester for specialization
IH  Humanities IV
Elective  V & VI
Open Electives -
III & IV
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit   9
Non-Graded Design Credits
Total  16-0-8  24
Grand Total   15  175
B. Tech. Project
Open Electives -
Total  20-0-6  26
14 | P a g e
13. Detailed Course Content
of Programme Compulsory Courses
15 | P a g e
Department  Biosciences & Bioengineering
Offered for  B. Tech
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce  basic  chemical  properties  of  biomolecules  and  principles  governing  chemical
properties of cell.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Understand the structure-function relationship of biomolecules in living system.
Chemistry of  Lipids [5  Lectures]: Classes  of Lipids  and  their structure;  Membrane  Lipids  and
their properties; Bio membrane organization; Sterols; Membrane Transport
Chemistry  of  Amino  Acids  [5  Lectures]:  Amino  acid  structure  and  properties;  Peptide  bond;
acid-base chemistry of amino acids;  isoelectric point
Chemistry of Proteins [5 Lectures]: Protein structure and its importance; Enzymes; Michaelis-
Menten kinetics; Enzyme inhibition
Nucleic acid chemistry [5 Lectures]: Nucleotides; DNA; RNA; Types of RNA
Properties of Carbohydrates [4 Lectures]: Aldoses, Ketoses; Epimers; Mutarotation; Glycosidic
Carbohydrates  Chemistry  [5  Lectures]:  Common  polysaccharides;  Reducing  &  Non  reducing
Bioenergetics  [5  Lectures]:  Catabolism;  Anabolism;  Energy  Coupling;  High  energy  bonds
formation and dissociation
Metabolic  pathways  [5  Lectures]:  Glycolysis;  TCA,  Electron  Transport  Chain,  Calvin  cycle,
Active  learning  component  [3  Lectures]:  Flipped  classroom  (group  presentations),  debates,
case studies on applied biochemistry, group discussions, think-pair-share
1.  D.  L.  Nelson  and  M.  N.  Cox,  Lehninger  Principles  of  Biochemistry,  WH  Freeman,  (2012),
1.  D.  Voet,  C.  W.  Pratt  and  J.  G.  Voet,  Principles  of  Biochemistry,  Wiley  (2012),  Fourth
1.  S  Dasgupta,  Biochemistry  I,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology
16 | P a g e
Department  Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Give students foundational knowledge on the microbial world
2.  Provide  context  as  to  how  these  microbes  play  an  essential  role  in  human  health  and
L-T-P [C]  3–0–2 [4]
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the biology of microbes and how they impact life on earth
2. Explore unique structure-function relationships in microbes
3. Analyse the diversity in microbial metabolism and its adaptability to environmental changes
Introduction: the ubiquitous micro-organisms, microbial cell structure and function, primitive
microbes to modern ones; bacteria, fungi, algae, protozoa and viruses (5 lectures)
Microbial nutrition and metabolism: nutritional classification of microbes, basics of metabolism
Metabolic pathways: Overview of catabolic and anabolic pathways and diversity in microbial
metabolism (5 Lectures).
Microbial growth and kinetics: Different phases of microbial growth, formulation of culture
medium, batch and continuous systems (5 lectures)
Microbial evolution: systematics and taxonomy, Different classes of bacteria (4 lectures).
Applications of Microbes: production of microbial metabolites & industrial Microbiology (4
Microbial ecology: methods, ecosystems, nutrient cycling (4 lectures)
Environmental Microbiology: bioremediation, role of microbes in wastewater treatment and
toxic waste treatment (4 lectures)
Medical Microbiology: interaction of microbes with higher organisms, microbial diseases ( 4
Food Microbiology: microbial spoilage of food, prevention of food spoilage, microbial activity in
various kinds of foods (3 lectures).
Biosafety,  Microscopic  examination  of  microbial  world  -  Staining;  Preparation  and  sterilization
of microbial growth media, Microbial motility and Chemotaxis;  Cultivating microbes by streak
plate  and  pour  plate  method.    Enumeration  of  microbes  by  turbidometry;  Microbial
enumeration  by  plate  count;  Effect  of  pH  and  temperature  on  microbial  growth;  Safely
discarding microbial cultures
1.  R. Y. Stanier, General Microbiology, Macmillan (1999), 5th edition.
2.  M. Pelczar, A. Chen, A. Krieg, Microbiology, Tata McGraw Hill Education (2001), 5th edition.
3.  R. M. Atlas, R. Bartha Microbial Ecology: Fundamentals and applications, Pearson, (1997),
1.  Brock, et al., Biology of Microorganisms, Benjamin Cummings (2012), 13th edition
2.  D.  L.  Nelson  and  M.  N.  Cox,  Lehninger  Principles  of  Biochemistry,  WH  Freeman,  (2012),
3. P. Harley, Klein’s Microbiology, McGraw Hill Higher Education, (2008), 7th edition,
17 | P a g e
Online Course Material
1. David Schauer, and Edward DeLong. 20.106J Systems Microbiology. Fall 2006.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu.
License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
18 | P a g e
Concepts and dynamics: molecular cell biology
Biosciences & Bioengineering
The instructor will:
1. Offer both basic and advance concepts in cellular and molecular biology. The focus of the course is
to provide basic understanding of functional machineries of cells.
2.  Apprise  the  students  about  the  dynamics  of  cellular  processes  and  the  regulatory  mechanisms
The students are expected to:
1. Have the ability to understand the structure and function of cells as a fundamental unit of life.
Cell organelles and cellular signalling [5 Lectures]: Structure and function of cellular organelles
Cellular architecture [5 Lectures]: Cytoplasmic and nuclear compartment, basic protein structure and
Cell division and proliferation [5 Lectures]: Biological principles of mitosis and meiosis; difference of
division among prokaryotes and eukaryotes and cell cycle regulation in health and diseases.
Mechanisms  of  cell  death  &  diseases  [5  Lectures]:  phases  and  significance  linked  with  apoptosis,
morphological and biochemical changes associated with apoptotic cells.
Regulation  of  gene  expression  [4  Lectures]:  DNA  replication,  prokaryotic  &  eukaryotic  transcription
prokaryotic transcription; transcription unit and TATA binding proteins, translation.
Cellular quality control mechanisms [4 Lectures]: cellular stress conditions and their effects; protein
quality control mechanisms and nucleic acid quality control mechanism.
Laboratory  experiments:  bacterial  transformation,  mammalian  cells  transfections;  DNA  gel
electrophoresis;  cell  death  assays;  localization  of  proteins  in  different  cellular  compartments;  DNA
ligation and digestion; animal cell culture and immunocytochemistry.
1. B. Alberts., Molecular Biology of the cell,  Garland Science, 2014,  6th Edition
2. G. Karp and N. L Pruitt., Cell and Molecular Biology, John Wiley and Sons, 2016, 8th Edition
1. L. Benjamin, Gene IX, Jones and Barlett Publishers, 2007, 9th Edition
2. J.D. Watson,  Molecular Biology of the Gene, Benjamin Cummings, 2007, 6th Edition
on  Molecular  Cell  Biology,  Devarajan  Karunagaran,
19 | P a g e
The Human Immune System: Mechanisms to Detect,
Defend and Attack
Department  Biosciences & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an overview of the human immune system and its components
2. Emphasize immune responses in context of bacterial, viral and parasitic infections.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Evaluate applications of immunology in industry
2.  Apply their knowledge for design of immunological experiments
Immunology-fundamental concepts and anatomy of the immune system[8 Lectures]: Components of
innate  and  acquired  immunity  (2lectures);  complement  and  inflammatory  responses(2lectures);
Innate  immune  response(1lecture);  mucosal  immunity(1lectures);  antigens  and  immunogens
(2lectures), haptens; Major Histocompatibility complex and disease susceptibility(1lecture).
Immune  responses  generated  by  B  and  T  lymphocytes  [6  Lectures]:  Immunoglobulins  -  structure,
function signalling(3lectures), kinetics of immune response, memory(3lectures);
B  cell  and  T-cell  maturation,  activation  and  differentiation  [6  Lectures]:  antigen  processing  and
presentation(3lectures), cell-cell co-operation, Hapten-carrier system(3lectures).
Antigen-antibody  interactions  [8  Lectures]:  Precipitation,  agglutination  and  complement  mediated
immune  reactions  and  associated  immunological  techniques(4lectures),  cell  cytotoxicity  assays,
microarrays, transgenic mice, gene knockouts(4lectures).
Clinical  immunology  [4  Lectures]:  Immunity  to  infection,  hypersensitivity:  Type  I-IV(1lecture);
autoimmunity;  treatment  of  autoimmune  diseases(1lecture);  transplantation:  immunological
basis  of  graft  rejection(1lecture);  tumor  immunology;  Immunodeficiencies;  immune  tolerance,
1.  K.  Murphy,  P.  Travers,  M.  Walport,  C.  Janeway,  Janeway’s  Immunobiology.  New  York:  Garland
Science (2012) 8th edition.
1.  T. J. Kindt, R. A. Goldsby, B. A. Osborne, J. Kuby. Kuby Immunology. New York: W.H. Freeman
(2002), First edition.
2. J. Brostoff, J. K. Seaddin, D. Male, I. M. Roitt,  Clinical Immunology. London: Gower Medical Pub
(2002), First edition.
1.  Cellular and molecular immunology, Fall 2005, MIT OpenCourseWare Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
20 | P a g e
Department  Biosciences & Bioengineering
Offered for  B. Tech
The Instructor will:
1. Give hands-on training on standard biochemical techniques and its applications.
The students will be able to:
1. Perform and implement biochemical techniques in research and industrial applications.
Identification of biomolecules in samples: proteins, carbohydrates and lipids
Protein  isolation  and  purification:  salting  out,  chromatography  (ion-exchange  and  affinity),
Characterization  of  proteins  using  spectroscopic  techniques:  absorbance,  fluorescence  and
secondary structure determination
Protein estimation by different methods: BCA, Bradford and Lowry
Identification and quantification of nucleic acids: absorbance and gel based methods
1. D. K. Geetha Practical Biochemistry, Jaypee Brothers Medical Publishers (2016) 2nd Edition.
1.  Elizabeth  Taylor.  5.36  Biochemistry  Laboratory.  Spring  2009.  Massachusetts  Institute  of
Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu.
21 | P a g e
Computational  and  Systems
Department  Bioscience and Bioengineering
To train the students in the interdisciplinary areas on the interface of biology and
To provide fundamental understanding of methods in computational biology along
with hand on training.
1.  Application of computational methods for modelling biological systems.
2.  Ability to model and infer from biological models.
Genome and Sequences [Lectures 2]: Sources of information of biological origin, gene and
protein sequences, sequence homology and its biological significance (2 lectures)
Building biological databases with SQL [Lectures 6] : Common database types, relational
database design (3 lectures), database access using SQL (2 lectures), biological databases
Sequence  Alignment  [Lectures  10]:  Need  for  aligning  biological  sequences,  Smith-
Waterman  algorithm,  Needleman-Wunsch  algorithm  (4  lecture),  Multiple  Sequence
Alignment (2 lecture) , Phylogeny (2 lecture), Applications, BLAST (2 lecture)
Gene  and  promoter  prediction  [Lectures  4]:  Gene  prediction,  promoter  and  regulatory
Protein  Structure  Prediction  [Lectures  6]:  Protein  folding  (1  lecture),  Ab  initio  and
knowledge-based  prediction  of  structures,  Force  fields  (3  lectures),  Homology  modelling
Introduction to Mathematical Modelling [2 lecture]: Introduction to Modelling, why model
biological  systems?,  examples  of  models,  the  modelling  process,  scope/assumptions,
types of models
Introduction  to  Static  Networks  [12  lectures]:  Representation  of  Biological  Networks  (1
lecture),  Introduction  to  Network  Biology  (3  lectures),  Network  Topology,  Power-law
Networks/Network  Perturbations  (3  lectures),  Community  Detection  /  Network  Motifs  (3
lectures), Reconstruction of Gene networks (2 lectures)
Lab: [10-12 Sessions]
Database searches and data retrieval, Database creation and data retrieval using MySQL,
Writing code for translation of nucleic acid sequence to protein sequence, Writing code for
dynamic  programming  and  performing  global  alignment,  Pairwise  sequence  alignment:
BLAST,  Multiple  Sequence  alignment:  CLUSTAL  OMEGA,  Gene  prediction  tools  (Glimmer,
GeneMark)  Visualisation  and  analysis  of  3D-structures  of  proteins  and  protein-ligand
interactions  using  graphics  tool  (RasMol),  Homology  modelling  using  SWISS-MODEL,
Network  Biology  (Cytoscape),  Network  Biology (Topologies), Motif  and  module  detection,
Parameters  of  network  (Cytoscape),,  Network  Perturbations,  reconstruction  of  gene
22 | P a g e
D. Mount, Bioinformatics: Sequence and Genome Analysis, Cold Spring Harbor laboratory
Press (2004), Second Edition.
1.  R.  Durbin,  S.  Eddy,  A.  Krogh,  G.  Mitchison,  Biological  Sequence  Analysis,  Cambridge
University Press (1998) First Edition.
2. C. Branden, J. Tooze, Introduction to Protein Structure, Garland Science (1999) Second
3. P Baldi, S Brunak, Bioinformatics: The Machine Learning Approach, Bradford Publishers
(2001) Second Edition.
2)  Video  lectures  on  Foundation  of  Computational  and  Systems  Biology,  MIT  Open
3) Lecture Notes for Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology and Genomics by
Prof. Mona Singh,
23 | P a g e
The Instructor will:
The Human Machine for Engineers:
Bioscience and Bioengineering
1.  Provide an understanding of the hierarchical organization of chemical and electrical signals
and control mechanisms for energy, mechanics, flow and transport.
2.  Provide an understanding of the workings of the human body in context of engineering
principles so as to develop an interdisciplinary outlook to biological as well as engineering
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Understand and analyse basic human physiology from an quantitative perspective
2.  Imagine engineering solutions that can solve biological problems and/or get inspired by
biology to solve engineering problems.
Physical  and  Chemical  Foundations  of  Physiology  [6  Lectures]:  Homeostasis,  feedback  control
systems,  pressure  driven  flow,  electrochemical  potential  and  free  energy(2  lectures),  membrane
transport across a biological membrane(4lectures).
Physiology  of  excitable  Cells  [10  Lectures]:  The  origin  of  the  resting  membrane  potential,  GHK
equation,  action  potentials(4lectures),  membrane  excitability,  modeling  action  potentials(2lectures),
saltatory conduction, skeletal muscle mechanics, neuromuscular transmission, excitation–contraction
coupling motor units, type of contractions, fatigue and tetanus(4lectures).
in  cardiac  cells,  control  of  cardiac
automaticity(2lectures),  ECG(1lecture),  cardiovascular  mechanics,  and  dynamics(2lectures),
microcirculation  control  mechanisms,  cerebral  and  pulmonary  circulation,  congestive  heart  failure,
[7  Lectures]:  electricity
Pulmonary  Physiology  [6  Lectures]:  breathing,  resistance  to  air  flow(2lectures),  alveolar  gas
exchange, acid-base balance(2lectures), neural control of respiration(2lectures).
Renal Physiology [13 Lectures]: Body fluid compartments and overview of renal function(2lectures),
Hemodynamics(2lectures), Tubular transport of electrolytes and water(2lectures), Concentration and
dilution of urine(2lectures), Regulation of sodium balance(2lectures), extracellular volume and Blood
pressure, Renal mechanisms of hypertension(1lecture).
1.    J. Feher Quantitative Human Physiology, Academic Press, 2nd Edition (2016).
2.  K. E. Barrett, S. M. Barman, Ganong’s Review of Medical Physiology, McGraw Hill Education, 26th
1.  E.N. Marieb Human Anatomy and Physiology, Pearson Education (2006), 6th Edition.
2.  W. F. Boron, E. L. Boulpaep Medical Physiology, Elsevier (2017) 3rd Edition.
1. Dennis Freeman, 6-021j Quantitative Physiology: Cells and Tissues, Fall 2004, MIT
OpenCourseWare Massachusetts Institute of Technology, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative
2. Venegas, J, Mark, F. Quantitative Physiology: Organ Transport Systems, MIT OpenCourseWare
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
24 | P a g e
Biophysics and Structural Biology
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The instructor will provide
1. In-depth understanding of three dimensional structure of bio-macromolecules and macromolecular
assemblies governing the cellular life.
2. Introductory idea of the state of the art tools and techniques in understanding the interactions of
After completion of the course the students are expected to have the ability to -
1. Conceptualize the basic principles of macromolecular structural assembles and their implications in
the regulation of biological phenomena.
2. Understand the basic principles of modern day techniques of structural biology and their
applications in academia-industrial settings.
Structural  hierarchy  of  macromolecules  [14  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  structural  biology,  structure-
function relationship (5 Lectures); protein folding and its regulation, Role of chaperones (4 Lectures);
higher order protein assembly, Structural basis of eukaryotic DNA compaction, molecular machines (5
Determination  of  macromolecular  structure  [14  Lectures]:  Introduction
crystallography: Macromolecular crystallization methods and basics of crystal symmetry (5 Lectures);
Analysis  of  X-ray  diffraction  data  and  validation  of  crystal  structure  (5  Lecture);  Small  Angle  X-ray
Scattering (SAXS) and Neutron diffraction to study macromolecular structures (4 Lecture).
Biophysics  of  macromolecular  interactions  [14  Lectures]:  Physical  forces  in  macromolecular
interactions (2 lectures), protein -protein and protein -nucleic acid interactions (3 lectures), structure
of heme, myoglobin and haemoglobin, oxygen binding mechanism (3 lectures), Bohr effect, Energetics
of  active  transport  (3  lectures),  Principles  of  spectroscopic  methods  for  studying  macromolecular
interaction (3 lectures).
1. Introduction to Macromolecular Structure
2. Retrieving biochemical information from protein primary structure.
3. Prediction of protein 3D structure model from amino acid sequence
4.Validation of protein 3D structure model
5. Analysis of protein 3D structure -
a. Overall structure and enzyme active site
b. Enzyme allosteric site
c. Enzyme substrate specificity
d. Enzyme inhibition by small molecule/peptide
6. Protein -small molecule docking and analysis
7. Protein-protein docking and analysis
8. Protein-DNA docking and analysis
9. Analysis of the effect of mutation(s) in protein interactions
1.  A.  M.  Pherson,    Introduction  to  Macromolecular  Crystallography,  Wiley-Blackwell  (2009),  2nd
2. W. Bialek, Biophysics – Searching for Principles, Princeton University Press (2012).
25 | P a g e
3. R. Glaser, Biophysics: An Introduction, Springer (2012) 2nd edition.
1. D. Voet, C. W. Pratt and J. G. Voet, Principles of Biochemistry, Wiley  (2012), Fourth Edition.
26 | P a g e
Genetics and Gene Manipulation
Department  Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide an overview of the principles of heredity and gene manipulation
2.  Highlight how gene manipulation can be applied to engineer simple and complex life
forms and safety considerations associated with genetic engineering
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Choose the best method to manipulate DNA for genetic engineering applications
2.  Engineer simple biological systems for biotechnological applications
3.  Practise safety and ethical considerations while manipulating and engineering
Fundamentals  of  Genetics  [18  Lectures]:  Introduction,  genetic  distances,  chromosome
mapping,  natural  selection,  crossovers  and  recombination  (6  lectures),  genetic  drift,
disequilibrium,  linkage  and  association  analysis,  principles  of  inheritance,  simple  and
complex  diseases,  heritability  estimation,  genetic  markers,  DNA  fingerprinting  (6
lectures),  study  designs,  Hardy-Weinberg
Gene  Manipulation  [12  Lectures]:  Polymerase  Chain  Reaction  (2  lectures),  DNA  modifying
enzymes  (1  lecture),  strategies  for  gene  cloning  (3  lectures),  gene  editing  (1  lecture),
vectors,  selection  &  screening  (2  lectures),  sequencing  DNA  (1  lecture),  heterologous
expression of genes (2 lectures)
Genetic  Engineering  [6  Lectures]:  Gene  transfer  to  animal  cells  &  transgenic  animals  (2
lectures),  gene  transfer  to  plant  cells  &  transgenic  plants  (2  lectures),  genetically
modified organisms (2 lectures)
Applications  of  Genetic  Engineering  [4  Lectures]:  Production  of  important  metabolites  (1
lecture),  introducing  new  traits,  improving  existing  traits  (1  lecture),  gene  therapy,
development of model systems, animal cloning (2 lectures)
Ethical & Safety Considerations [2 Lectures]: Biosafety considerations for recombinant DNA
research (1 lecture), Ethical considerations for Genetic Engineering (1 lecture)
Laboratory Experiments (12 exercises)
Cloning strategies; Transformation, Selection & Screening; Clone confirmation &
Sequencing of cloned DNA; Directional cloning; Heterologous protein expression; Site
1. S. B. Primrose, and R. M. Twyman, Principles of Gene Manipulation & Genomics,
Blackwell Publishing (2006), 7th Edition.
2. N. M. Laird, and C. Lange, The Fundamentals of Modern Statistical Genetics, Springer:
New York (2011), First edition.
1. M. Nagarajan, Ed. Metagenomics: Perspectives, Methods, and Applications, Elsevier
(2017) 1st Edition,
2. D. P. Snustad, M. J. Simmons, Principles of Genetics, John Wiley and Sons (2011), 6th
27 | P a g e
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
proteome and resulting metabolome
Introduce the organization of a genome and highlight the complexity of the encoded
Describe methods to access the genome, proteome and metabolome for specific
Highlight applications of genomics, proteomics and metabolomics in biological research
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Sequence and analyse the genome of a simple organism to understand its functioning
2.  Appreciate the usage of proteomics approaches to obtain a global picture of cellular activities
3.  Understand the metabolic complexity of simple organisms from the perspective of their
genome and proteome
Genomics  &  Transcriptomics  [12  Lectures]: Organization  of  the  genome, Genome  mapping  (2
lectures),  Genome  sequencing  (3  lectures),  Comparing  genomes  (2  lecture),  Functional
Genomics  (2  lectures),  Epigenomics  (1  lecture),  Genome  sequencing  projects  (1  lectures),
Genome databases (1 lectures)
Proteomics  [10  Lectures]: Separation  of  proteins,  Analysis  of  protein  expression  [3  Lectures],
Detection of post-translational modifications [2 Lectures] , Reverse phase protein microarrays
[2 Lectures], Structural proteomics, Interactomics [3 Lectures]
Metabolomics  [14  Lectures]: NMR  for  metabolomics  (2  lectures),  Gas  chromatography  (2
lectures),  High-performance  liquid  chromatography  (2  lectures),  Mass  spectrometry  (5
lectures), Global metabolite profiling from biological samples (3 lectures)
Applications  of  Omics  [6  Lectures]: Genomics  &  proteomics
in  Medicine,  Biomarkers,
Pharmacogenomics & personalized medicine (3 lectures), Plant genomes (1 lecture), Microbial
genomes  (1  lecture),  Proteomics  and  metabolomics  for  biomarker  discovery  &  disease
diagnosis (1 lectures)
1.    S. B. Primrose and R. M. Twyman Principles of Gene Manipulation & Genomics, Blackwell
A. M. Lesk, Introduction to Genomics, Oxford University Press (2017), 3rd Edition.
R. Twyman, Principles of Proteomics, CRC Press (2013), 2nd Edition.
28 | P a g e
Department  Bioscience and Bioengineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.Provide an insight on the fundamental concepts of biomaterials engineering.
2. Give an overview of techniques for characterizations of different types of biomaterials for various
The students will have the ability to:
1. Analyze the suitability of the material to be used as a biomaterial.
2. Compare the performance of different biomaterials.
3. Design a strategy for modification of biomaterials for a specific application.
Fundamental  of  Biomaterials  [14  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  biomaterials  (2  lectures),  types  of
biomaterials  (1  lectures),  processing  of  biomaterials  (4  lectures),  surface  properties  and  surface
modification  of  biomaterials  (3  lectures),  physicochemical  characterization  of  biomaterials  (4
lectures). (offered by MM department)
Biological  properties  of  biomaterials  [14  Lectures]:  Concepts  of  biocompatibility,  immune-
Biomineralization  (4  lectures),  Biological  characterization  of  biomaterials  (5  lectures)  (offered  by
Applications of Biomaterials [14 Lectures]: Biomimetic and stealth biomaterials (3 lectures), types
and  applications  of  implants  (4  lectures),  biomaterials  for  drug  delivery  systems  (3  lectures),
biomaterials for tissue engineering (3 lectures), regulatory affairs (1 lecture) (offered by BSBE)
1.  B.  Bikramjit,  Biomaterials  Science  and  Tissue  Engineering,  Cambridge  University  Press  (2017),
1.  W.  R.  Wagner,  Shelly  E.  Sakiyama-Elbert,  Guigen  Zhang,  Michael  J.  Yaszemski,  Biomaterials
Science: An Introduction to Materials in Medicine, Academic Press Inc (2020), 4th edition.
1. Prof. Bikramjit Basu, IIT Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/113/104/113104009/
29 | P a g e
14. Detailed Course Content
Programme Elective Courses
30 | P a g e
Title of the course
Microbiomes and Metagenomics
Computational Methods for Multi-omics
Microarray Data Analysis
31 | P a g e
Microbiomes and Metagenomics
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce microbial communities that are ubiquitous and are functionally adapted to specific
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
2.  Outline methods to understand microbial community structure in a given environment
3.  Describe strategies to access the genomic diversity specific to these microbial communities
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Unravel microbial communities associated with specific environments using culture-dependent /
2.  Access metagenomes associated with unique environments to bioprospect enzymes, metabolites
and bioactive compounds
Fractal  1.  Quantitative  ecology  of  Microbial  communities  [14  Lectures]:  Development  of  microbial
communities  (2  lectures),  selection  and  succession,  diversity  and  stability  of  communities  (3
lectures),  indices  for  diversity  (2  lectures),  structure  and  function  of  some  natural  microbial
communities  (2  lectures),  accessing  the  microbiome:  from  sample  collection  to  detection  of
microbial  populations,  counting  microbes  (3  lectures),  measuring  microbial  biomass  and
metabolism (2 lectures)
Fractal  2.  The  current  standard  in  microbiome  profiling  [14  Lectures]:  Extraction  of  environmental
DNA (2 lectures), PCR considerations in microbiome research (2 lectures), multiplexing samples,
next generation sequencing primer (2 lectures), exploiting NGS methods for microbiome profiling
(2 lectures), data analyses (4 lectures), assessment of community diversity (2 lectures)
Fractal 3. Metagenome sequencing [14 Lectures]: Metagenome library construction and sequencing
(2  lectures),  metagenome  amplification,  shotgun  metagenome  sequencing  (3  lectures),  single-
cell  metagenomics  (2  lectures),  predicting  genes  and  gene  function  from  metagenomes  (2
lectures),  metabolic  reconstruction  of  microbial  communities  (2  lectures),  bioprospecting  from
metagenomes (3 lectures)
1.  R. Atlas, R. Bartha, Microbial Ecology: Fundamentals and Applications, Pearson
(1998), 4th edition.
2.  J. Izard, M. Rivera, Eds. Metagenomics for Microbiology, Elsevier (2015), First edition.
1.  M. Nagarajan, Ed. Metagenomics: Perspectives, Methods, and Applications, Elsevier (2017), 1st
2.  Research articles, Case reports & Review articles as provided by the Instructor
32 | P a g e
Computational Methods for
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce to basic knowledge of computational and statistical methods in omics data analysis
2.  Highlight  how  multi-omics  data  is  to  be  preprocessed,  assessed  for  integrity,  analyzed  and
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify key methods for analysis and integration of omics data based on a given dataset
2. Efficiently analyze large scale multi-omics data sets
3. Make biological inference from the analyzed data
Fractal 1: Basics of Multi-omics Analysis (14 lectures)
Genome  first  and  phenome  first  approaches,  biological  networks  and  pathways  (4  lectures),
multi-omics data types and repositories, multi-omics data examples, biological interpretation (4
lectures);  homogeneity  and  heterogeneity  issues,  batch  effect  correction,  normalization  and
transformation (4 lectures); processing of high-throughput multi-omics data sets (2 lectures)
Fractal 2: Horizontal Multi-omics Integration (14 lectures)
Horizontal  integration  scheme,  single-level  omics  data,  meta-analysis  methods  (4  lectures);
integration  methods  for  multiple  biological  networks,  integration  of  genetically  regulated  gene
expression data (4 lectures); correlation motif model, ChIP-X data integration, analysis of allele-
specific binding in ChIP-Seq (3 lectures); illustrative case-studies (3 lectures)
Fractal 3: Vertical Multi-omics Integration (14 lectures)
Vertical  integration  schemes  including  parallel  integration  and  hierarchical  integration  (3
lectures);  clustering  methods,  latent  variable  approach  (4  lectures);  Bayesian  methods,
network-based methods, HotNet algorithm (4 lectures); illustrative case-studies (3 lectures)
Laboratory Experiments (14 classes)
perform  multi-omics  integration  for  cancer  TCGA  data  sets;  analyze  the  complex  structure  of
repeated measurements from different biological assays using open access data sets ; develop a
meta-analysis approach for integrating data on blood lipid levels; apply visualization approaches
for the multi-omics analyses and biological interpretation.
1. G. Tseng, D. Ghosh, X. J. Zhou, Integrating Omics Data. Cambridge University press (2015),
1. A. Vlahou, F. Magni, H. Mischak, J. Zoidakis, Integration of Omics Approaches and Systems
Biology for clinical applications. Wiley (2018), First edition.
1.  George  Michailidis,  University  of  Michigan,  Data-driven  Approaches  and  Multi-omics
33 | P a g e
Microarray Data Analysis
Bioscience and Bioengineering
(1) Training  students  to  analyze  microarray  technology/RNA  sequencing  gene  expression
(2) To be knowledgeable about high dimensional biology data analysis. The course will help
to minimize a major bottleneck in the utilization of these data.
(3) To  familiarize  the  students  with  the  use  of  advanced  tools  and  methodologies  for
analyzing microarray/RNA seq expression data
(4) Assignments  will  help  them  to  practice  and  learn  about  the  tools  required  in  the
microarray data analysis
(1) Be  able  to  understand  the  structure  of  the  data,  the  statistical  procedures  used  to
remove the inherent noise present in the data (pre-processing of the data)
(2) Be able to decide which data analysis tool to use
(3) Be  able  to  understand  new  methods  to  describe  observations  made  on  a  biological
phenomenon and to make inferences on the biological significance of the results
Fractal  1:  DNA  Microarray:  Gene  expression  biology,  The  technical  foundations,  Why  are
microarray  important?(1  lecture)  What  is  a  DNA  microarray  and  RNA  seq  data?(2  lectures),
Types  of  microarrays-  two-channel  cDNA  arrays,  single-channel  Affymetrix  genechips,
microarray  platforms  (5  lectures),  Designing  a  microarray  experiment-The  basic  steps  (2
lectures);  Microarray  Databases:  NCBI  and  microarray  data  management,  GEO  (Gene
Expression Omnibus), Array Express, The benefits of GEO and Array Express (4 lectures).
Fractal  2:  Microarray  Data  Normalization  :  Importance  of  microarray  data  pre-processing,
Background  correction  (4  lectures),  Data  normalization,  Measuring  dissimilarity  of  expression
pattern using dissimilarity measures (3 lectures), Pre-processing of RNA seq data (5 lectures),
Visualizing microarray/RNA seq data using- Principal Component Analysis (2 lectures)
Fractal  3:  Microarray  Data  Analysis:  Identification  of  differentially  expressed  genes-  using
statistical and computational approaches (4 lectures), Classifying samples from two populations
(4  lectures),  grouping  co-expressed  genes  (2  lectures).  Visualization  and  Functional  Analysis:
Bio-molecular  pathways,  gene  ontology,  enrichment  analysis,  hypergeometric  distribution,
calculation of P-Value, hypothesis testing, multiple hypothesis testing (4 lectures)
1.  R.  M.  Simon,  E.  L.  Korn,  L.  M.  McShane,  M.  D.  Radmacher,  Wright  G.  W.,  Zhao  Y.,
"Design  and  Analysis  of  DNA  Microarray  Investigations",  Springer-Verlag  New  York,
2003, First Edition.
2.  Korpelainen E., Tuimala J., Somervuo J., Huss M., Wong G., "RNA-seq Data Analysis: A
Practical Approach", CRC Press,  USA, 2014, First edition.
1. Knudsen S., “Guide to Analysis of DNA Microarray data”, John Wiley & Sons, USA, 2004, First
2. Stekel D., “Microarray Bioinformatics”, Cambridge University Press, 2003, First edition.
3.  Draghic  S.,  “Data  Analysis  tools  for  DNA  Microarray”,  Chapman  and  Hall/CRC  Press,  USA
2002, First edition.
Self learning Materials: Microarray based DNA Detection---- http://nptel.ac.in/
34 | P a g e
Title of the course
Therapeutic Delivery Systems
Principles of Biomechanics
35 | P a g e
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will
1. Provide an insight about cell-material interactions at different length scale essential for the design
and development of wearable devices, implants, therapeutic formulations and engineered organs.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Analyse the nature of cell-material interactions at molecular level.
2. Choose appropriate techniques for analysing cell-material interactions.
3.  Develop  an  appropriate  surface  modification  strategy  for  improving  the  performance  of
Fractal 1.  Fundamentals of cell-material interactions [14 Lectures]: Cell-material interactions over a
length  scale  from  macro  to  nano,  mechanism  of  adhesion  of  cells  (4  lectures),  ECM  and  its
interactions with cells (3 lectures); Reticuloendothelial cell clearance, interaction of immune cells with
materials (4 lectures)), interaction of microbes with substrate (3 lectures).
Fractal 2. Influence of material properties on cell-material interactions [14 Lectures]: Influence of the
surface and bulk properties of the materials on physiology of anchorage dependent cells (5 lectures),
effects  of  size  and  morphology  of  the  materials  on  their  interactions  with  the  cells  (4  lectures),
Important techniques for characterizing cell-material interactions (5 lectures).
Fractal  3.  Tuning  of  cell-material  interactions  [14  Lectures]:  Strategies  to  tune  the  cellular  function
by  modifying  material  properties  for  biomedical  applications  (5  lectures),  anchorage  promoting
peptides,  tuning  the  mechanism  of  biofilm  formation  (4  lectures),  design  of  stimuli-responsive
(optical, electric and magnetic) surfaces for modulating cell behaviour (5 lectures).
1. J. Y. Wong, J. D. Bronzino, Biomaterials, CRC Press (2019), first edition.
1.  W.  R.  Wagner,  S.  E.  Sakiyama-Elbert,  G.  Zhang,  M.  J.  Yaszemski,  Biomaterials  Science:  An
Introduction to Materials in Medicine, Academic Press Inc (2020), 4th edition.
1.  MIT  Open  Courseware,  Prof.  Ioannis  Yannas  and  Prof.  Myron  Spector,  Course  number:  20.441J/
36 | P a g e
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  an  understanding  of  the  process  of  repair  and  regeneration  in  various  tissues  and  the
role of different factors therein.
2. Fundamental concepts and technical aspects of tissue engineering.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design a tissue-engineered product for a specific application.
2. Analyze and compare the performance of different tissue-engineered products.
Fractal 1. Fundamental concepts of tissue engineering [14 Lectures]: Fundamentals of tissue repair
and  regeneration;  manipulation  of  repair  and  regeneration  (4  lectures);  introduction  to  basic
principles  of  tissue  engineering  (5  lectures);  components  of  an  engineered  tissue:  role  of
biomaterials, growth factors, bioactive molecules and cells (5 lectures).
Fractal  2.  Fabrication  and  characterization  of  solid  support  systems  [14  Lectures]:    Fabrication
techniques  of  films  and  hydrogels  (4  lectures);  fabrication  of  scaffolds  (5  lectures);  Physico-
chemical characterizations of different solid support systems (5 lectures).
Fractal 3. Development of engineered tissue in vitro [14 Lectures]: Animal cell culture (2D and 3D)
(5  lectures);  strategies  for  the  development  of  cell-seeded  tissue  engineering  construct  (5
lectures);  implantation  and  integration  of  tissue-engineered  products  (3  lectures);  Ethical  and
regulatory issues in tissue engineering (1 lecture).
1. B. Palsson, S. Bhatia, Tissue Engineering, Pearson Prentice Hall (2016), First edition.
1. J. P. Fisher, G. Antonios, G. Mikos, J. D. Bronzino, D. R. Peterson, Tissue Engineering: Principles
and Practices, CRC Press (2017), First edition.
1.  Introduction  to  Tissue  Engineering,  Prof.  S.  Swaminathan,  Centre  for  Nanotechnology  &
Advanced Biomaterials, SASTRA University. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/106/102106036/;
2.  Tissue  Engineering,  Prof.  Vignesh  Muthuvijayan,  Department  of  Biotechnology,  IIT  Kanpur.
37 | P a g e
Therapeutic Delivery Systems
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide deep insight on the fundamental concepts and advances on various types of therapeutic
2. An understanding principles/rationales of therapeutic delivery systems.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design a therapeutic delivery system for a specific application.
2. Decipher and modulate the mechanism of therapeutic drug loading and release.
3. Formulate novel strategies for personalized drug delivery.
Fractal  1.  Introduction  to  therapeutic  delivery  systems  [14  Lectures]:  Overview  of  therapeutic
delivery  systems  (3  lectures);  rationales  of  designing  therapeutic  delivery  systems  (3  lectures),
classification  of  therapeutic  delivery  systems  (3  lectures);  characterization  of  therapeutic  delivery
systems (5 lectures).
Fractal  2.  Essential  concepts  of  therapeutic  delivery  systems  [14  Lectures]:  Strategies  of  drug
loading, mechanism of drug release, kinetics of drug release (3 lectures), essentials of pharmaco-
kinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  (3  lectures),  principles  of  sustained,  targeted  and  on-demand
delivery (5 lectures), case studies on therapeutic delivery systems (3 lectures).
1. Y. Chien, Novel Drug Delivery Systems (Drugs and the Pharmaceutical Sciences) CRC Press, 2nd
edition (2019)ISBN-10: 0367402912
1.  P.  Stroeve,  Morteza  Mahmoudi  Drug  Delivery  Systems:  1  (World  Scientific  Series:  From
Biomaterials Towards Medical Devices), (2018) First edition.
1. Drug delivery: Principles and Engineering, Prof. Rachit Agarwal, Department of BioSystems
Science and Engineering, IISc Bangalore. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/108/102108077/
38 | P a g e
Bio-Transport Phenomena  Number
The Instructor will:
1. Provide knowledge about momentum, heat and mass transfer in bio-systems and their analogous
2.  Train the student to create bio-engineering knowledge using the transport phenomena approach
with special focus on combined transport problems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify and analyze the properties and mechanisms of momentum, energy and mass transport.
2. Analyze, design and solve problems combining these transport phenomena in bio-engineering.
Basics  of  Transport  phenomena  and  Momentum  Transport  (14  Lectures):  Introduction,
Formulation of transport problems from nature, conservation principle, Basic concepts of Vector
and Tensor Analysis. (6 Lectures) Basic concepts, laminar and turbulent flows, boundary layers,
equations of change, dimensional analysis, applications to Newtonian & Non-Newtonian fluids. (8
Fundamentals of biological transport processes (14 Lectures): Driving forces for fluid transport in
biological systems, biological transport process on different length scale , Bio-rheology of  blood
and  other  body  fluids  (  5  lecture),  Transport  across  cell  membrane;  diffusion,  filtration  and
osmosis  (3  lecture),  facilitated  and  active  transport  processes  (3  lecture),  interstitial  fluid
transport, fluid flow in bone canaliculi and streaming potential ( 3 lecture),
Circulatory and respiratory transport processes (14 Lectures): Models for blood flow; steady flow
in tubes, pulsatile flow in a rigid tube, pulsatile flow in an elastic tube (3 lecture), blood flow in
capillaries  and  bolus  flow,  blood  flow  dynamics  in  arteries  and  veins  (3  lecture),  heart-valve
hemodynamics  (3  lecture),  air  flow  in  the  lungs:  Mechanics  of  breathing,  gas  exchange  and
transport (4 lecture), Application of the principle of bio-transport phenomenon in medical device
1.  G.  A.  Truskey,  F.  Yuan,  D.  F.  Katz,  Transport  Phenomena  in  Biological  Systems,  Prentice  Hall,
New Jersey (2009), 2nd edition.
2. R. B. Bird, W. E. Stewart, E. N. Lightfoot, Transport Phenomena, Wiley India (2006), 2nd edition.
1.  C.  E.  Welty,  R.  E.  Wicks,  G.  L.  Wilson,  G.  L.  Rorrer,(2007),  Fundamentals  of  Momentum,  Heat,
and Mass Transfer. Wiley India Pvt. Ltd (2007), 5th edition.
2.  C.  J.  Geankoplis  Transport  Processes  and  Separation  Process  Principles,  Prentice-Hall  of  India
(2004), 4th edition.
3. R. S. Brodkey, H. C. Hershey, Basic concepts in transport phenomena, a unified approach. Vol 1,
Brodkey Publishing (2003), 1st edition.
4. W. J. Thompson, (2000) Introduction to Transport Phenomena, Prentice Hall (2000), First edition.
Online Course Material:
39 | P a g e
Title of the course
Computational and Systems Biology
Algorithms in Biology
Modelling Biological Systems
Design of experiments
40 | P a g e
Algorithms in Biology
Bioscience & Bioengineering
To  develop  an  understanding  of  the  main  algorithmic  approaches  used  in  solving  computational
problems  that  arise  in  the  analysis  of  biomolecular  data  (such  as  DNA/RNA/amino  acid  sequences,
mass spectra of proteins, whole genomes, or gene expression levels).
The students are expected to:
Understand various algorithms related to biological data analysis.
Develop new efficient algorithm to solve biological data.
Fractal  1  Greedy  Algorithms:  Genome  Rearrangements  (7  lectures),  A  greedy  approach  to  motif
finding (7 lectures)
Fractal  2  Dynamic  programming  algorithms:  The  power  of  DNA  sequence  comparison  (2  lectures),
global  sequence  alignment,  local  sequence  alignment  (4  lectures),  alignment  and  gap  penalties  (2
lectures),  multiple  alignment  (2  lectures),  Gene  Prediction,  Similarity-Based  Approaches  to  Gene
Prediction (4 lectures)
Fractal  3  Clustering  algorithms:  identification  of  co-expressed  groups  of  genes(2  lectures),
construction  of  phylogenetic  trees  (3  lectures),  detection  of  communities  in  a  biological  network  (3
lectures)Gene  selection  algorithms:  types  of  gene  selection  algorithms,  SAM,  Limma,  CFS,  mRMR,
MRMS(4 lectures), ensemble gene selection algorithm (2 lecture)
1)  N.  C.  Jones,  P.  A.  Pevzner  An  Introduction  to  Bioinformatics  Algorithms,  MIT  Press  (2014),  First
2) G. Benson, R. Page (Eds.) Algorithms in Bioinformatics”, Springer International Edition (2004) First
3)  D.  Gusfields,  Algorithms  on  strings,  trees  and  sequences:  Computer  Science  and  Computational
Biology, Cambridge University Press (1997), First edition.
1)  S.  S.  Kremer,  Molecular  Bioinformatics:  Algorithms  and  Applications,  Walter  de  Gruyter  (1996)
2) R. Durbin, S. R. Eddy, A. Krogh, G. Mitchison. Biological Sequence Analysis: Probabilistic Models of
Proteins and Nucleic Acid, Cambridge University Press, (1999), First edition.
3) S. Mitra, S. Datta, T. Perkins, G. Michailidis Introduction to Machine Learning and Bioinformatics,
New York: Chapman & Hall/CRC Press (2008), First edition.
Self Learning Material
2)  MIT  Open  Courseware:  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-
41 | P a g e
Department  Bioscience and Bioengineering  L-T-P  [C]
Offered for  B.Tech.
The main objective of the course is to introduce students to various aspects of mathematical modelling
in the particular context of biological systems.
Students  will  have  a  knowledge  of  important  concepts  related  to  the  mathematical  modelling  of
complex  systems,  especially  metabolic  networks,  protein  interaction  networks  and  gene  regulatory
networks,  and  will  be  able  to  apply  them  to  model  the  behaviour  of  biological  systems  as  well  as
develop strategies for manipulating them.
Kinetic/Dynamic  Modelling  of  Biological  Systems  [14  lectures]:  Introduction  to  Dynamic  Modelling  (2
lectures), Computer Simulation (3 lectures), Parameter Estimation (3 lectures), Sensitivity Analysis (2
lectures), case study (3 lectures)
Modelling metabolic networks/Constraint-based analyses [7 lectures]: Introduction to Constraint-based
Analyses  of  Metabolic  Networks  (2  lectures),  Constraint-based  Analyses  of  Metabolic  Networks:  FBA
and  MoMA  (5  lectures);  Current/Advanced  Topics  in  Systems  Biology  [7  lectures]:  Robustness  in
Biological Systems (4 lectures),  Robustness and Evolvability in Biological Systems (3 lectures)
Lab: [10-12 Sessions]
Introduction to MATLAB, Solving ODEs/Parameter Estimation with MATLAB, Parameter Estimation with
MATLAB, Simulation with Cell Designer (TCA cycle), Constraint-based Analyses of Metabolic Networks
(FBA and MoMA)
Voit E, A First Course in Systems Biology. Garland Science (2012), First edition.
1. E. Klipp, Systems biology : a textbook. Wiley-VCH (2009), First edition.
2. MEJ Newman, Networks : an introduction. Oxford Univ. Press (2011), First edition.
Self Learning Material:
42 | P a g e
Title of the course
Electron microscopy for Biology
Digital Image processing
Special topics in Biomedical Imaging
43 | P a g e
Title of the course
Whole cell based biosensors
Microsystems fabrication technology
Special topics in biosensors
44 | P a g e
Whole Cell based Biosensors
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce the basic regulatory mechanisms of gene expression in prokaryotes
2. Outline how these gene expression circuits can be rewired to make effective biosensors
3. Briefly expand into synthetic biology approaches to construct whole-cell biosensors
The students will have the ability to:
1. Choose the right regulatory circuits for design of effective biosensors
2. Genetically engineer living prokaryotic systems for sensing
Genetic circuitry [20 Lectures]: Transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression
in  bacteria  (4  lectures),  two-component  systems  (3  lecture),  reporter  genes  and  their  usage  (2
lectures),  choice  of  host  strain,  free  living  biosensors  (2  lectures),  immobilized  biosensors,
immobilization  strategies  (2  lectures),  DNA  manipulation  for  construction  of  reporter  fusions  (1
lecture), RNA-based sensing (4 lectures), specificity, sensitivity, cross-reactivity (2 lecture).
Case  studies  [14  Lectures]:  Whole  cell  biosensors  for  sensing:  antimicrobials  (1  lecture),  organics,
plant  nutrients  (3  lectures),  microbial  metabolites  (2  lectures),  heavy  metals,  xenobiotics  (3
lectures), pH, temperature (2 lectures), synthetic biology for whole cell biosensor development (3
Seminars  on  current  topics  in  whole  cell  biosensors  [8  Lectures]:  Student-led  seminars  on  current
topics  in  whole  cell  biosensors.  Students  will  present  and  discuss  instructor-approved  research
articles describing development of biosensors using living cells.
1. J.D. Watson, T.A. Baker, S.P. Bell, A. Gann, M. Levine, and R. Losick, Molecular Biology of the
Gene, Pearson Education (2014) 7th Edition.
2. S. B. Primrose, and R. M. Twyman, Principles of Gene Manipulation & Genomics, Blackwell
Publishing (2006), 7th Edition
1.  T. Gerald, Ed. Handbook of cell biosensors, Springer (2020), 1st Edition.
Self-Learning Material None
45 | P a g e
Microbial Systems for
Title of the course
Microbial remediation and environmental biotechnology
Microbes in food and sustainable agriculture
46 | P a g e
Microbial remediation and Environmental
Bioscience and Bioengineering
1.  To acquaint students with the way wastes/wastewaters as well as toxic wastes are treated
2.  The instructor will teach methods pertaining to sustainable wastewater recycling
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Address the increasing water, soil or air pollution problems arising due to industrialization and
how biotechnology can circumvent these problems
2.    Students  will  be  able  to  design  a  treatment  process  based  on  the  characteristics  of  the
wastewater to be treated
Fractal  1:  Introduction,  Stoichiometry  and  bacterial  energetics  (5  lectures),  reactors  for
wastewater treatment, Carbon removal, Nitrification and denitrification, phosphorus remova (6
lectures)l, Detoxification of hazardous chemicals (3 lectures).
Fractal  2:  Bioremediation,  Type  of  bioremediation  (4  lectures),  Engineering  strategies  for
bioremediation (5 lectures), case studies on bioremediation (5 lectures)
Fractal  3:  Strategies  in  solid  waste  management,  landfill  &  associated  hazards  (4  lectures)  ,
chemistry  of  biodegradable  wastes,  composting,  solid  state  fermentation  (5  lectures),  solid
waste to biofuel, chemistry of non-biodegradable wastes, the case studies  (5 lectures)
1.  B.E.  Rittmann,  P.  L.  McCarty,  Environmental  Biotechnology:  Principles  and  Applications,
Tata McGraw Hill (2001), 2nd edition.
1.  M.  Shuler,  F.  Kargi,  Bioprocess  Engineering:  Basic  Concepts,  Prentice  Hall  (2002),  2nd
2. R. Y. Stanier, General Microbiology, Macmillan (1999), 5th edition.
Self Learning Material
1.    Gargi  Singh,  Applied  Environmental  Microbiology,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Civil
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/105107173/
47 | P a g e
Microbes in food and sustainable
Biosciences & Bioengineering
1.  This  course  will  emphasize  on  the  role  of  microbes  in  food,  additives  and  sustainable
agriculture and its practical applications in the field.
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Be  able  to  utilize  the  potential  of  microbes  in  creating  a  sustainable  food  and  agriculture
Plant-microbe interactions [14 Lectures]:
Plant  community  ecology  and  soil  symbiont  interactions,  soil  resources,  local  niche  in  shaping
community    [5  Lectures],  Microbial  interactions,  role  of  root  exudates  in  microbial  community
growth,  types  of  microbial  community    [5  Lectures],  Factors  affecting  plant-microbiome
interactions (environmental and genetic) [4 Lectures]
Microbes for better food and health [14 Lectures]:
Prebiotics, probiotics and synbiotics, microbes as nutritional supplement [5 Lectures],  microbial
preparation  of  dairy  products,  microbial  production  of  antibiotics  [5  Lectures],  Fermented
beverages and health benefits, quality control [4 Lectures]
Microbes for sustainable agriculture [14 Lectures]:
Microbes as symbiotic microbes, nitrogen fixers and phosphate solubilizer [5 Lectures], Microbial
herbicides and pesticides, microbes for nutrient recycling [5 Lectures], Phytohormone production
and genetically modified food [4 Lectures]
1.  R.  Chandra,  R.  C.  Sobti.  Microbes  for  Sustainable  Development  and  Bioremediation.  CRC
Press (2020), First edition.
1. S. Tulasi, J. B. Naraian, A. Prakash, Microbes in food and sustainable agriculture. Springer
(2012),  First edition.
1. Microbiology. Gurvinder Kaur Saini. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/103/102103015/)
48 | P a g e
1.  To acquaint students with the principles and applications of bio-energy harnessing systems ranging
from conventional processes to the latest developments in the area
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Microbiology and Biochemistry
The students will have the ability to:
1. Use biomass as sustainable fuel
2.  Utilize the knowledge of bioenergy systems while integrating bioenergy with other renewable energy
Fractal 1. Thermochemical biomass conversion [14 lectures]: Chemical composition, biomass types and
characteristics  (4  lectures),  biomass  pre-treatment  and  processing,  biomass  gasification  technology  (5
lectures),  biomass  boilers,  catalytic  conversion  of  biomass  to  liquid  biofuels,  life  cycle  analysis  (5
lectures) (offered by CY).
Fractal  2.  Biochemical  biomass  conversion  [14  lectures]:  Anaerobic  fermentation  technology,  biogas
production,  process,  microbiology  (4  lectures),  different  types  of  bioreactors,  basic  process  kinetics,
various types of biofuels,1st and 2nd generation biofuels, algal biofuels (5 lectures), ASTM standards for
biofuels, basic biochemical processes, genetic engineering (5 lectures).
Fractal  3.  Bioelectrochemical  systems  [14  lectures]:  Introduction  to  microbial  fuel  cells  (MFCs),  the
Nernst equation and electrochemical potential difference, the biochemical redox reactions, (5 lectures),
the  exoelectrogenic  microbes,  MFC  components,  applications  of  MFC  (5  lectures),  bio  electrochemical
system for hydrogen production, artificial photosynthesis (4 lectures).
1.  German Solar Energy Society, Ecofys, (2006) Planning and installing bioenergy systems: A guide for
installers, architects and engineers, Earthscan, 2.  Vertes, A. A., Qureshi, A., Yukawa, H.,  Blaschek,
H.P.,(2010) Biomass to Biofuels, Wiley.
1.  R. Y. Stanier, General Microbiology, Macmillan (1999), 5th edition.
2.  M. Pelczar, A. C. Krieg, Microbiology, Tata McGraw Hill Education (2001), 5th edition.
Self Learning Material
1. Michelle O'Malley, Fueling Sustainability: Engineering Microbial Systems for Biofuel Production, Spring
2011, MIT OpenCourseWare Massachusetts Institute of Technology, https://ocw.mit.edu. License:
Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
49 | P a g e
Drug Design and Development
Title of the course
Principles of drug discovery
Viral infection and antiviral drug development
50 | P a g e
Principles of drug discovery
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Biophysics and Structural Biology (PC)
The instructor will:
1. Focus on route of drug design and discovery
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the underlying principles of drug design and development
Fractal  1.  Target  Identification  and  Validation  [14  Lectures]:  Drug  targets,  computer  aided  drug
design,  principles  of  QSAR  (4  Lectures);  pharmacokinetics,  administration  and  dosing  (2
Lectures); drug testing: in vivo and in vitro (2 Lectures); drug discovery: natural lead, synthetic
lead, combinatorial synthesis (3 Lectures); pharmacokinetics based drug design (3 Lectures).
Fractal  2. Artificial  Intelligence  Applications  in  Drug  Discovery[14  Lectures]: drug  target
identification,  drug  databases,  virtual  screening  (4  lectures);  classifying  new  drugs,  predicting
drug responses, applications in clinical trials (4 lectures); deep learning based survival prediction,
disease prognosis prediction (3 lectures); data driven medicine, drug-target interaction prediction
Fractal  3.  Bench-to-Bed  side[14  Lectures]:  Chemical  development  (2  Lectures),  patenting  (2
Lectures), process development (2 Lectures); toxicology (1 Lectures), pharmacology (2 Lectures),
drug  metabolism  (1  Lectures);  clinical  trials  (2  Lectures);  commercialization:  regulatory  affairs,
pipeline development, pharmaceutical market places, business opportunities (2 Lectures).
1. K. Stromgaard, P. K. Larsen, U. Madsen, Drug Design and Discovery, CRC Press (2016), 5th
1. E. Stevens, Medicinal Chemistry: The Modern Drug Discovery Process, Pearson Publisher
(2013), 1st Edition.
Self Learning Materials
51 | P a g e
Bioscience and Bioengineering , and Chemistry  L-T-P [C]
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  understanding  of  representing  stereochemical  structures  of  drug  molecules  and  their
2. Provide knowledge of disconnection of drug molecules followed by targeting them synthetically by
designing  synthetic  routes  and  methods  development  to  achieve  them  in  concise  and  atom
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design  and  develop  a  method  for  targeted  biologically  active  natural  products  or  drug  molecule
from the knowledge of the retrosynthesis and synthetic organic chemistry.
2. Appreciate and understand the importance of stereochemistry avail in drug molecules.
Fractal  1.  Pharmacophore  [14  lectures]:    Stereochemical  feature  of  pharmacophore  (2  Lectures),
Natural  and  synthetic pharmacophores  (2  Lectures),  introduction  and  importance  of  natural  product
chemistry in drug development (2 Lectures), analogue-based lead designing (2 Lecture), Examples of
Synthetic  and  natural  Product-based  landmark  drugs  (1  Lecture),  Drug  metabolism:  Concept  of
prodrugs (1 Lecture), adverse drug reaction (2 Lectures), biotransformation (2 Lectures).
Fractal  2.  Basic  Concept  of  Organic  Synthesis  [14  lectures]:  functional  group  interconversions,  (4
Lectures) donor and acceptor, (1 Lecture) chemo-, regio-and stereo-selectivities, (3 Lectures) natural
and  umpolung  reactivities,  (2  Lectures)    1,3  and  1,5-difunctional  compounds,  (2  Lectures)
importance  and  role  of  chiral  drug  molecules    and  selective  synthesis  of  chiral  drug  molecule.  (2
Fractal  3.  Synthetic  procedure  of  biologically  active  molecules  [14  lectures]:  Few  applications  of
retrosynthetic strategies in the total synthesis of selected organic molecules such as: Drugs acting
on  Central  Nervous  System  (2  Lectures),  Anti-inflammatory  agents  (such  as  paracetamol,
naproxine,  ibuprofen,  aspirin,  diclofenac)(4  Lectures),  Antibiotics  and  Antifungal  agents  (2
Lectures),  Antiviral  agents  (1  Lecture),  Medicinal  Plant  products  [tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC)]  (2
Lectures),  Importance  of  peptides  in  drug  discovery  (tubulysin,  dolastatin,  milnamide)    general
aspects of Peptides and Peptidomimetics in designing therapeutic molecule (3 Lectures).
1. S. Warren, Organic Synthesis, The Disconnection Approach Wiley (2014), Third edition.
2. E. M. Carriera, L. Kvaerno Classics in Stereoselective synthesis, Wiley (2009), First edition.
3.  L.  Kurti,  B.  Czako,  Strategic  Applications  of  Named  Reactions  in  Organic  Synthesis,  Elsevier
(2005), First edition.
4. D. S.  Johnson, J. J. Li, The Art of Drug Synthesis. Wiley (2007), First edition.
1.  K. C. Nicolaou, S. A. Snyder, Classics in Total Synthesis-II: Further Targets, Strategies, Methods,
Wiley (2003), First edition.
2.  R. K. Bansal, Heterocyclic Chemistry, New Age International Private Limited (2017), 5th edition.
1. NPTEL Lectures: Organic synthesis - https://nptel.ac.in/courses/104105087/
2. NPTEL Lectures: Medicinal Chemistry- https://nptel.ac.in/courses/104106106/
52 | P a g e
Viral infection and antiviral drug
Department  Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
1. Provide the fundamental knowledge of Viral pathogenesis and Host cell responses
2. Provide the detailed knowledge of antiviral drug targets, mechanism of existing antiviral drugs
and future antiviral therapeutics and drug designing endeavours.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the molecular mechanism of viral pathogenesis and host antiviral
2. Understand the mode of action of common antiviral therapeutics and the fundamentals
of antiviral drug designing strategies.
Basic  concept  of  Virus  and  Viral  pathogenesis:(14  lectures)  Virus  a  unique  infectious  agent,
Classification of virus (5 Lectures); Example of pathogenic virus and their life cycles (Host specificity,
attachment, replication, proliferation, maturation, release and cross species infectivity) (5 Lectures);
Virus induced cell transformation (4 Lectures)
Viral  infection  versus  host  defense  mechanisms:  (10  lectures)  Host  immune  responses  against  viral
infection  (Nonspecific  immunity,  humoral  immunity  (4  Lectures)  and  cell  mediated  immunity(4
Lectures)   Immunopathological effects of viral infections (2 Lectures)
Antiviral  therapies:  (18  lectures)  Identification  and  validation  of  antiviral  drug  targets  (4  Lectures),
Strategies  to  develop  antiviral  drugs  (small  molecule  and  peptide  based)  (4  Lectures)  Therapeutic
antibodies  as  antiviral  drugs,  AON  and  RNAi  based  antiviral  therapies,  Immunization  (active  and
passive) as antiviral therapy (5 Lectures); Mode of action of common antiviral drugs (5 Lectures).
1. E. Lycke and E. Norrby, Text Book of Medical Virology, Elsevier (1983), First edition.
2.  T.  J.  Kindt,  B.  A.  Osborne,  R.  A.  Goldsby,  J.  Kuby,  Immunology,  New  York  Publisher  (2007),  6th
3. E. D. Clercq, Advances in Antiviral Drug design, Volume 5, Elsevier (2007), First edition.
1.  Chorghade, M. S., Drug Discovery and Development, Volume 1, Wiley (2006), First edition.
Self Learning Material
Dr.  Jun  Wang,  from  The  University  of  Arizona,  USA  Lecture  on  Influenza  Drug  Development
from  Columbia  University,  USA  Lecture  on  antiviral  drugs
53 | P a g e
15. Detailed Course Content
54 | P a g e
Microbial Systems Engineering
Specialization Core (8 credits)
Specialization Elective (12 Credits)
- Engineering Microbes (3-0-0)
- Bioprocess Engineering and
- Mathematical modelling of
-  Microbial Nanotechnology (3-0-0)
-  Metabolic Engineering for biofuels (2-
-  Microbial remediation and
environmental biotechnology (3-0-0)
-  Microbes in food and sustainable
-  Bioenergy (3-0-0)
-  Soil Microbiome & Microbial
-  Biofilms: Bacterial communities (3-0-
-  Gut microbiomes in health and
-  Downstream processing (3-0-0)
Industry collaborated project
4 credit (0-0-6) x 1
55 | P a g e
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Genetics & Gene Manipulation
The Instructor will:
microbes for applications in various domains
Introduce advanced methods for genetic engineering microbes
Discuss case studies outlining the application of introduced methods to develop engineered
The students will have the ability to:
or microbial communities
Select the appropriate method for genetic engineering of microbes
Develop solutions for their chosen domain of research using genetically engineered microbes
Genetic  manipulation  of  microbes  [16  Lectures]:  Strain  development  for  specific  applications  (2
lectures),  basic  metabolic  engineering  (3  lectures),  microbial  community  engineering  (2  lectures),
construction  of  reporter  strains  and  biosensors  (4  lectures),  applications  of  genetically  engineered
microbes  in  healthcare,  food  production,  energy  production  and  environmental  remediation  (5
Gene  &  genome  engineering  [16  Lectures]:  Introduction  to  CRISPR-Cas  biology  (3  lectures),
engineering  CRISPR-cas  systems  (5  lectures),  applications  of  CRISPR-Cas  in  microbial  system
engineering  (4  lectures),  introduction  to  microbial genomes,  minimal  genome  concept  (2  lectures),
synthetic genomes (2 lectures).
Advanced  Genetic  engineering  research  prospects  in  industry  [10  Lectures]:  Medicines  and  genetic
engineering;  insulin  (3  lectures),  albumin  and  human  growth  hormones  production  (2  lectures);
generation of monoclonal antibodies and vaccines (2 lectures); gene coding for a useful protein and
cloning concepts (3 lectures).
1.   S. B. Primrose,  and R. M. Twyman,  Principles of Gene Manipulation & Genomics, Blackwell
Publishing (2006), 7th edition.
2.   Reviews & Research articles provided by the Instructor
1. Reviews & Research articles provided by the Instructor
Self Learning Material
56 | P a g e
Bioprocess Engineering & Fermentation
Bioscience and Bioengineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Prerequisite  Microbiology and Biochemistry
1. Introducing the students to principles and applications of industrial biotechnology.
2. Enable students to use their knowledge of microbiology and biochemistry for bioprocess design.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Understanding enzymatic and microbial process kinetics
2. Ability to identify and understand the key principles and limitations underlying bioprocess design
Basics of Biochemical Engineering: Basics of reactions and thermodynamics (5 lectures); Isolation,
screening and maintenance of industrially important microbes; strain improvement (3 lectures)
Stoichiometry, bacterial energetics and Microbial growth kinetics: substrate partitioning and cellular
yield, energy reactions, overall reactions for biological growth (5 lectures), Microbial growth, Basic
rate expressions, mass balances, Nutrient and electron acceptors (3 lectures).
Bioreactors:  Introduction  to  bioreactors  (2  lectures),  Batch  and  Fed-batch  bioreactors,  Continuous
bioreactors, plug flow reactors (5 lectures) and control of bioprocess parameters (2 lectures).
Fermentation  economics:    Various  types  of  dimensionless  analysis  in  mass  transfer;  heat  transfer
and  momentum  transfer  (5  lectures);  Importance  of  dimensionless  number  in  designing  the
bioreactors, and scale up (3 lectures)
Industrial  Processes  and  Process  economics:  Process  technology  for  the  production  of  primary
metabolites  (4  lectures),  Discussion  on  the  national  and  international  scenario  of  the  products  (2
lectures).Applications  of  biotechnology  in  production  of  biological:  Microbial  production  of  useful
metabolites (3 lectures)
1. M. Shuler, F. Kargi, Bioprocess Engineering: Basic Concepts, Prentice Hall, Englewood, Cliff
(2002), 2nd edition.
2. P. F. Stanbury, A. Whitaker, Principles of Fermentation Technology.  Oxford: Pergamon (1997),
3. P. Doran, Bioprocess engineering principles, Academic Press (1995), 1st edition.
Engineering. Oxford University Press (2015) 2nd Edition.
publishing Corporation, Delhi (2004), 2nd edition.
Kristala Jones Prather. 10.442 Biochemical Engineering. Spring 2005. Massachusetts
Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons
C. Ratledge, B. Kristiansen, Basic Biotechnology, Cambridge University Press (2001),  2nd
W. Crueger and A. Cruger, Biotechnology: A text book of Industrial Microbiology, Panima
R. G. Harrison, P.  Todd, S. R. Rudge, D. P. Petrides, Bioseparations  Science and
57 | P a g e
Mathematical  modelling  of
Department  Bioscience and Bioengineering
Offered for  B.Tech.
The main objective of the course is to introduce students to various aspects of mathematical
modelling in the particular context of microbial systems.
Students will have a knowledge of important concepts related to the mathematical modelling
of  microbial  systems,  and  will  be  able  to  apply  them  to  model  the  behaviour  of  biological
systems as well as develop strategies for manipulating them.
Introduction,  Growth  of  microbial  populations,  Volume  and  macromolecular  content  of  cells
(4  lectures),  Biochemical  reactions  underlying  microbial  growth  (2  lectures),  Growth  in  a
changing  environment,  Connecting  metabolism  and  growth:  flux  balance  analysis  (4
lectures),  Connecting  gene  expression,  metabolism  and  growth:  coarse-grained  whole-cell
models (4 lectures)
Modelling microbial growth, Simulation with CellDesigner, Flux balance analysis
E. Voit, A First Course in Systems Biology. Garland Science (2012), First edition.
1. E. Klipp, Systems biology : a textbook. Wiley (2009), First edition.
2. MEJ Newman, Networks : an introduction. Oxford Univ. Press (2011), First edition.
Self Learning Materials
Computational  Systems  Biology,  Karthik  Raman,
58 | P a g e
Department  Bioscience and Bioengineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1. Provide deep insight on fundamental concepts and advances in microbial nanotechnology.
2.  Provide  overview  on  the  mechanistic  understanding  on  how  nanomaterials  interact  with
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design a greener and eco-friendly synthetic strategy to prepare nanomaterials in bulk scale.
2. Compare their intrinsic antimicrobial activities of different nanomaterials.
3. Design a nanomaterial with a specific size and shape for a particular application.
Fractal  1.  Microbial  Synthesis  of  Nanoparticles  [14  Lectures]:  Biosynthesis  of  plasmonic
nanoparticles  by  microbes  and  their  mechanism  (5  lectures),  biosynthesis  of  magnetic
nanoparticles  by  microbes  and  their  mechanism  (5  lectures),  physico-chemical  characterization  of
nanomaterials (4 lectures).
Fractal 2. Interactions of Microbes with Nanomaterials [14 Lectures]: Nanomaterial–microbe cross-
talk: physicochemical principles and biological consequences (5 lectures), role of bacteriophages in
nanotechnology (4 lectures), and antimicrobial properties of nanomaterials (5 lectures).
Fractal 3. Microbial Nanovesicles and Viral Nanoparticles [14 Lectures]: Magnetosomes (3 lectures),
bacterial  membrane  vesicles(3  lectures),  applications  in  vaccines  and  immunotherapeutics  (2
lectures),  Engineered  nanoparticles  from  viruses  (3  lectures),  case  studies  on  applications  of  viral
nanoparticles in biomedicine (3 lectures).
1.  R.  Prasad,  B.  Siddhardha,  M.  Dyavaiah,  Nanostructures  for  Antimicrobial  and  Antibiofilm
Applications (Nanotechnology in the Life Sciences), Springer (2020), First edition.
2. N. Cioffi, M. Rai, Nano-Antimicrobials: Progress and Prospects, Springer (2012), First edition.
1.  R.  Prasad,  Microbial  Nanobionics:  Volume  1,  State-of-the-Art  (Nanotechnology  in  the  Life
Sciences) (2019), Springer, ISBN-10: 3030163822.
2. R. Prasad, Microbial Nanobionics: Volume 2, Basic Research and Applications (Nanotechnology in
the Life Sciences) (2019), Springer, ISBN-10: 3030165337.
59 | P a g e
Biosciences & Bioengineering
1) Introduce students to the concept of social living and community formation in bacteria.
2) To enable students understand role of biofilms in healthcare and environment.
Students  will  be  able  to  appreciate  the  importance  of  biofilm  formation  with  respect  to  their
beneficial and detrimental roles.
Biofilm formation [14 Lectures]:
Introduction and significance [5 Lectures]: Composition of biofilm matrix, Structure and function of
matrix, Factors contributing to biofilm formation (intrinsic and extrinsic)
Biofilm  life  cycle  [5  Lectures]:  Stages  of  Biofilm  Development,  Physiology  of  biofilms,  Viability,
metabolism, social interactions
Biofilm  evolution  [4  Lectures]:  Population  distribution  with  the  matrix  (active  and  persister  cells),
multispecies biofilm, Evolutionary significance of biofilms
Occurrence and Relevance of Biofilms [14 Lectures] :
Environmental Biofilms [5 Lectures]: types of biofilms, bacterial species contribution, multi-species
biofilm, biofouling, corrosion, plant root nodule interactions, sulfur cycle.
Clinical  Biofilms  [5  Lectures]:  opportunistic  infections,  hospital  acquired  infections,  antibiotic
resistance, gene transfer through biofilm community.
Methods  to  study  biofilms  [4  Lectures]:  microscopy  (confocal),  staining  (congo  red  and  crystal
voilet), quantification of biofilm biomass
Biofilms in engineering systems [14 Lectures]:
Biofilms  in  treatment  of  waste  water  treatment,  biofiltration,  bioremediation,  decomposition  [5
Lectures],  Implications  food  and  agriculture  industry,  as  metabolizers  [4  Lectures],  generation  of
electric signals, biocatalysis, microbial fuel cells [5 Lectures]
1.  L.  F.  Melo,  T.  R.  Bott,  M.  Fletcher  and  B.  Capdeville.  Biofilm-Science  and  Technology.  Springer
(1992), First edition.
1. M. Ghannoum, G. A. Toole, Microbial Biofilms. ASM Press (2013), First edition
60 | P a g e
Metabolic Engineering for biofuels
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Microbiology and Genetics and gene
The instructor will Introduce basic concepts in metabolic engineering and explores modern
approaches in metabolic and strain engineering.
The students will have an ability to:
1.  understand microbial metabolism and describe the major metabolic pathways
2.  Use stoichiometric models to assess metabolic pathways and adopt appropriate genetic
3. Apply genome-scale models to depict metabolic designs that improve flux towards biofuel
Introduction to metabolic engineering: Microbial physiology and metabolism, Enzyme & growth
Kinetics (5 lectures)
Modelling and Flux balance analysis: Modelling kinetics, methods to measure fluxes, metabolic
flux analysis, flux balance analysis (5 lectures)
Synthetic  Biology  for  biofuels:  Reading  writing  DNA,  Assembling  and  sequencing  DNA  (5
Design: Design Transcription, translation, post translation and design pathways  (5 lectures)
Genome engineering for biofuels: Genome engineering tools  (4 lectures)
Case studies on biofuel production optimization (4 lectures)
1.  G. N. Stephanopoulos, A. A.  Aristidou, J. Nielsen, Metabolic engineering: Principles and
methodologies. 1st ed. San Diego: Academic Press (1998), 1st edition.
1. C. S. Smolke, Metabolic pathway engineering handbook: Fundamentals. New York: CRC
Press. (2010) 1st edition.
2. C. S. Smolke, Metabolic pathway engineering handbook: Tools and applications. 1st ed. New
York: CRC Press (2010). 1st edition.
61 | P a g e
Soil Microbiome & Microbial Technology
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Microbiology and Genetics and gene
The instructor will Introduce soil microbiology and soil microbiome in connection with
agricultural productivity and crop nutrient content.
The students will have an ability to:
1.  depict the desirable soil microbiome
2.  Understand pant microbe interaction and its effect on crop productivity and it nutrient
3. Engineer microbes for enhancing crop productivity.
Introduction:  Microbiomes  of  soil,  plant  and  animal  the  good  and  the  bad  soil  microbiome,
Analytical approaches for microbiome research (5 lectures)
Soil  Microbiome and  plant  growth connection:  Microbiome of  soil,  factors that shape  the  host
microbiome    (5 lectures)
Ecological  connection:  Microbial  symbiosis  and  host  nutrition,  the  microbiome  and  host
behaviour, host microbiomes and disease (5 lectures)
Adapting  to  environmental  change:  The  changes  in  microbiomes,  impact  assessment  (4
Engineering  soil  microbiomes:  Microbial  technologies  and  altering  soil  microbiomes  for
improved crop productivity and nutrient production by plants  (5 lectures)
Synthesis and future directions: Future approach to agricultural sustainability, case studies (4
R. Antwis,  X. Harrison, M. Cox, M. (Eds.). (2020). Microbiomes of Soils, Plants and Animals:
An Integrated Approach (Ecological Reviews). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
D. R. Montogomery, A. Bikle, The Hidden Half of Nature: The Microbial Roots of Life and
Health. W. W. Norton & Company (2016), First edition.
62 | P a g e
Gut Microbiome in Health & Disease
Bioscience & Bioengineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the microbiome with a special emphasis on the human gut microbiome
2.  Outline the process of establishment of the gut microbiome and will highlight the
functions of a healthy microbiome
3.  Highlight dysbiosis in the gut microbiome associated with certain diseased states and
changes in the environment
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the importance of the various factors including the diet in shaping the gut
2.  Study the gut microbiome using well defined and well thought out experimental
3.  Understand the metabolic roles of the microbiome and ideate towards development of
novel therapies that may target the microbiome
Introducing the Human Microbiome [8 Lectures]: Microbes on & within us, The great plate count
anomaly  (1  lecture),  The  microbiome  in  early  life  (3  lectures),  Development  of  the
microbiome with age (4 lectures)
Exploring  the  Human  Gut  Microbiome  [8  Lectures]:  Accessing  the  microbiome  (bacteria,  fungi,
viruses) (2 lectures), Culture based & culture independent methods (2 lectures), Sequencing
based  approaches,  Next-generation  sequencing  based  approaches  (2  lectures),  Interpreting
microbiome data (2 lectures)
Functions  of  the  Gut  Microbiome  [8  Lectures]:  Metabolic  functions  of  the  microbiome  (4
lectures),  Microbiome  in  immunity,  Infection  control  by  the  microbiome  (2  lectures),
Microbiome in nutrition (2 lectures)
Factors  impacting  the  Microbiome  [6  Lectures]:  Mode  of  delivery,  Diet  &  nutrition  (2  lectures),
Drugs  &  antibiotics  (1  lecture),  Ethnicity  &  race,  Host  genetics  (2  lectures),  Early-life
infections, Medical procedures, Probiotics, Prebiotics (1 lecture)
Gut  microbiome  dysbiosis  &  Disease  [7  Lectures]:  Obesity,  Type  II  Diabetes  (2  lectures),
Cancer, Autoimmune disorders (2 lectures), Gut-brain axis (2 lectures), Inflammatory bowel
disease (1 lecture)
Therapies  targeting  the  Microbiome  [3  Lectures]:  Probiotics,  Prebiotics  (1  lecture),  Fecal
microbiota transplantation (2 lecture), Targeted depletion, Phage therapy (2 lecture)
1.  D. Haller, Ed. The Gut Microbiome in Health & Disease, (2018), Springer (2018), 1st
2.  L. Pray, L. Pillsbury, E. Tomayko, Workshop Summary: The Human Microbiome, Diet &
Health, The National Academies Press (2012), First edition.
1.  Research articles, Case reports & Review articles as provided by the Instructor
Self Learning Material
63 | P a g e
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioprocess Engineering and Fermentation
The instructor will provide an insightful overview of the integrative nature of different unit
operations used  for the downstream processing of microbial  product .
The students will have the ability to:
1. Appreciate the underlying principles of downstream processing.
2. Design an effective and economic downstream processing strategy for a particular microbial
Fractal 1.Fundamental of downstream processing [14 Lectures]: Scope of downstream processing,
selection  of  bio-separation  techniques  (5  lectures),  unit  operations  in  downstream  processing  (4
lectures), intracellular vs extracellular products, isolation of intracellular products , methods of cell
disruption (5 lectures)
Fractal  2:  Bioseparation  1  [14  Lectures]:  Methods  of  solid-liquid  extraction  (2  lectures),
centrifugation and filtration (basic principles, design characteristics) (5 lectures), reverse osmosis,
ultracentrifugation, sedimentation (5 lectures), electrophoresis and dialysis (2 lectures).
Fractal  3:  Bioseparation  2  [14  Lectures]:  Evaporation  (2  lectures),  liquid-liquid  extraction,
chromatographic techniques (ion exchange, affinity and gel permeation) (5 lectures), spray drying
and lyophilization (5 lectures), crystallization in final product formulation (2 lectures).
1. P. M. Doran, Bioprocess Engineering principles, Academic press (2012), 2nd edition.
1.  G.  Roger,  G.  Harrison,  W.  Paul,  W.  Todd , S.  R.  Rudge ,P.   Demetri.  Petrides,  Bioseparations
Science and Engineering (Topics in Chemical Engineering),  OUP USA (2015), 2nd edition.
Self Learning Materials
NPTEL course, Prof. Mukesh Doble, IIT Madras,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/106/102106022/
64 | P a g e
Therapeutic Engineering and Drug Discovery
Specialization Core (8 credits)
Specialization Elective (12 Credits)
- Modern approaches of drug
- Introduction to Precision Medicine
- AI-based drug discovery (2-0-0)
-  Antimicrobial drugs and drug
-  Anticancer drug discovery and
-  Modern approaches for
-  Novel Drug Delivery Systems (3-0-0)
-  Theranostic Systems (3-0-0)
Industry collaborated project
4 credit (0-0-6) x 1
65 | P a g e
Modern approaches of drug designing
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Biophysics and Structural Biology
The instructor will provide:
1. In-depth understanding of the modern approaches involved in drug designing and drug screening.
2. Introductory idea of the drug targets and their identification.
3. Detailed understanding of work flow of modern drug designing.
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Conceptualize  the  basic  principles  of  state  of  the  art  techniques  used  in  drug  designing  and
2. Understand the basic principles of modern day drug designing steps.
3. Conceptualize the basic principles and applications of modern day drug designing approaches to
meet up the demands of pharmaceutical industries.
Introduction to Drugs, Drug Discovery and Drug targets [9 Lectures]: Definition of drugs; criteria of
a good drug; historical perspective of drug designing approaches; brief outline of modern day drug
designing approaches (4 Lectures);  Drug targets and Drug target hot spots (5 Lectures).
Rational  drug  designing  approaches  and  techniques  [18  Lectures]:  in  silico  based  approaches  to
identify drug target hotspots (homology modelling, virtual screening, molecular dynamic simulation)
(5  Lectures).    Biochemical  and  Biophysical    principles  to  develop  drug  screening  assays  (4+4
Lectures); Single molecule based high throughput methods of drug screening (5 Lectures)
Ligand  based  drug  designing  approaches  [10  Lectures]:Identification  of  molecular  scaffold  and
pharmacophore  mapping;  pharmacophore  screening  (3  Lectures);  pharmacophore  modification  and
combinatorial chemistry (3 Lectures); lead optimization (2 Lectures)
Validation of therapeutic leads [5 Lectures]: Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology analysis of top
therapeutic leads (ADMET analysis); drug testing (brief idea of different phases of clinical trial).
1.  K. Stromgaard, P. K. Larsen, U. Madsen, Drug design and discovery, Taylor and Francis (2016),
1.  D. Ekinci. Medicinal Chemistry and Drug design, Intech open (2012), First edition.
66 | P a g e
Introduction to Precision medicine
Department  Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an introduction to precision medicine
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand fundamentals of techniques to create and analyse effective methods for
Introduction  to  Precision  Medicine  [8Lectures]:  fundamentals  of  genetics  as  these  apply  to
personalized medicine (DNA structure; RNA; protein structures; function of DNA; coding; DNA
variations; types of genetic variants).
Ethical Aspects of Precision Medicine [5 Lectures]: Privacy, Informed consent and social justice,
Studying  Genetic  Variation  [5  Lectures]:  how  we  study  genetic  variation  in  families  and
populations.  Family  history  and  inheritance  patterns,  ancestry,  and  linkage.  Contemporary
techniques  and  technologies  [8  Lectures]:  Technologies  used  to  study  genetic  variation,
including genome-wide association and sequencing.
Case  studies  in  Precision  Medicine  I  [8  Lectures]:  specific  cases  in  personalized  medicine.
Familial hypercholesterolemia: how we use genomic medicine to move from a rare disease to a
common  medication,  using  genomics  to  find  new  drug  targets,  and  a  discussion  of  the  side
effects of statin therapy.
Case  studies  in  Precision  Medicine  II  [8  Lectures]:  Other  case  studies  will  include:  cystic
fibrosis, Marfan syndrome, heart failure, neuropsychiatric diseases, cancer and diabetes.
1. H. P. Deigner, M. Kohl, Precision Medicine Tools and Quantitative Approaches, 1st Edition,
2. R.A. Goldsby, J. K. Thomas and A. Barbara, K. Osborne., Kuby Immunology, Freeman,2002,
1. K. Murphy, P. Travers, M. Walport, M. Janeway, C. Janeway’s Immunobiology. New York:
Garland Science (2011), 8th edition.
2. M. T. Madigan, J. M. Martinko, J.M. Brock, Biology of Microorganisms, Prentice-Hall, Inc.,
(2006), 11th  Edition.
Self Learning Material
1. NPTEL Video Lectures on Human Molecular Genetics by Prof S Ganesh,  Indian Institute of
Technology Kanpur (https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/104/102104052/)
2. NPTEL Video Lectures on  Essentials in Immunology by Prof. R. Manjunath, Prof. Dipankar
Nandi , Prof. Anjali Karande, Indian Institute of Science Bangalore
3. NPTEL Video Lectures on  Cellular and Molecular Immunology by Prof. Sachin Kumar, Indian
Institute of Technology Guwahati  (http://nptel.ac.in/courses/102103038/)
67 | P a g e
AI- based drug discovery
Bioscience & Bioengineering
This course will  involve a deep dive into recent advances in AI in healthcare, focusing in
particular on deep learning approaches for drug discovery problems.
The students are expected to:
1)  Understand  various  methods  for  representation  of  a  molecule,  molecular  descriptors,
structure computation software.
2) Select/Develop an appropriate DL/ML techniques to perform a particular drug discovery
Fractal  1  [14  lectures]:    Introduction,  Chemical  formats:  Key  features  of  SDL,  MDL  and
PDB  files,  SMILES  systems  (4  lectures),  Morgan  algorithm  for  consistent  labelling  and
structural  ordering,  Canonical  Smile,  CML  file,  Conversion  of  file  formats  (4  lectures),
Molecular descriptor (0-4D descriptors), molecular interaction field (MIF) (2 lectures) and
comparative  molecular  field  analysis  (CoMFA)  (1  lecture),  molecular  fingerprints  (path
based and sub structure), descriptor to data matrix conversion.(3 lectures)
Fractal  2  [14  lectures]:    Identification  of  relevant  molecular  descriptors  using  feature
selection techniques and deep learning (3 lectures), application of supervised learning and
deep learning for predictive modelling of QSAR (3 lectures), ligand based virtual screening
(1  lecture),  ADME  and  drug  sensitivity  prediction  (2  lectures),  unsupervised  learning  for
denovo drug molecule design, drug repurposing, and meta data based analysis of target-
disease-drug association. (5 lectures)
1) N. Brown, Artificial Intelligence in Drug Discovery, Royal Society of Chemistry (2020),
2)  M.  Chang,  Artificial  Intelligence  for  Drug  Development,  Precision  Medicine,  and
Healthcare, Taylor & Francis Group (2020), 1st edition.
1)  A.R  R.  Leach,  Molecular  Modelling:  Principles  and  Applications,  Prentice  Hall,  (2001),
2) B. Ramsundar, P. Eastman, P. Walters, V. Pande, Deep Learning for the Life Sciences:
Applying  Deep  Learning  to  Genomics,  Microscopy,  Drug  Discovery,  and  More,  "O'Reilly
Media, Inc. (2019), 1st edition.
68 | P a g e
Antimicrobial drugs and drug resistance
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Outline how antimicrobials work against microbes and how microbes are evolving
resistance against these life-saving drugs
2.  Highlight the key drivers of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and describe what can be done
to curb AMR
3.  Discuss key problems in solving the AMR problem
The students will have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate the importance of correct use of current antibiotics
2.  Identify potential targets in microbes for development of new antimicrobials
3.  Ideate about solving problems associated with AMR emergence and tackling AMR
Antimicrobials  [7  Lectures]:  Classes  of  antimicrobials,  Mechanism  of  actions  of  antimicrobials  (2
lectures),  Cellular  targets  of  antimicrobials  (2  lectures),  Correct  use  of  antimicrobials  (1
lecture), Laboratory testing for antibiotic susceptibility (2 lectures)
Resistance to Antimicrobials [7 Lectures]: General mechanisms of resistance to antimicrobials (3
lectures), Evolution of antimicrobial resistance (1 lecture), Genetics of antimicrobial resistance
(1  lectures),  Molecular  testing  for  antibiotic  resistance  (1  lecture),  Transmission  of
antimicrobial resistance (1 lecture)
Drivers of Antimicrobial Resistance [4 Lectures]: Inappropriate usage of antimicrobials (1 lecture),
Industrial use of antimicrobials (2 lectures), Persistence as a driver of antimicrobial resistance
Tackling  Antimicrobial  Resistance  [10  Lectures]:  Case  studies  on  clinical  impact  of  antimicrobial
resistance (2 lectures), Development of new antimicrobials, Finding novel drug targets in drug
resistant  bacteria  (2  lectures),  Drug  repurposing  (1  lecture),  Antimicrobial  stewardship  &
responsible use of antimicrobials (1 lecture), Alternative therapies for drug resistant infections
(2 lectures), Tracking drug resistant bacteria: Molecular epidemiology (2 lectures)
1.  J. M. Willey, L. M. Sherwood, C. J. Woolverton, C. J., Prescott’s Microbiology, McGraw Hill
(2013), 9th Edition.
2.  M. T. Madigan, K. S. Bender, D. H. Buckley, W. M. Sattley, D. A. Stahl, Brock Biology of
Microorganisms, Pearson (2018), 15th edition.
1.  Research articles, Case reports & Review articles as provided by the Instructor
69 | P a g e
Anticancer Drug Discovery and
Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Instructor will:Provide the insights of the molecular mechanism of carcinogenesis.
Provide  the  knowledge  of  anticancer  drug  discovery,  mechanism  of  cancer  drug
resistance and upcoming anticancer therapeutics.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  the  molecular  mechanism  of  carcinogenesis  and  cellular  factors  regulating
2.  Understand  the  mode  of  action  of  common  anticancer  drugs,  molecular  mechanism  of
cancer drug resistance.
3. Adopt the importance of upcoming therapeutic strategies to combat cancer.
Carcinogenesis: (14 lectures) Molecular mechanism of carcinogenesis, Genetic and Epigenetic
factors  regulating  the  carcinogenesis  (5  Lectures);  Retrotransposones  and  carcinogenesis
(4Lectures);  Carcinogenesis  associated  phenomena  (Alteration  of  kinase  activities,  Protein
turnover kinetics, tissue invasion and angiogenesis) (5 Lectures).
Target  identification  and  anticancer  drug  discovery:  (14  lectures)  Brief  history  of  Cancer
chemotherapy (2 Lectures); Biomarkers, Cancer specific validation and use of biomarkers for
anticancer  drug  discovery  (4  Lectures),  Example  of  drug  targets  for  cancer  chemotherapy
[Cell  cycle  checkpoint  proteins  and  their  regulators  (2  Lectures);  Tumor  suppressors  (2
Lectures); Cellular Growth factors (2 Lectures) Protein turnover enzymes (2 Lectures)]
Anticancer  therapies:  (14  lectures)  Strategies  to  develop  anticancer  drugs  (small  molecule
and  peptide  based)  (5  Lectures);  Mode  of  action  of  common  anticancer  drugs  and  Cancer
drug  resistance  (5  Lectures);  Therapeutic  antibodies  as  anticancer  drugs  (2  Lectures),  AON
and RNAi based anticancer therapies, Gene editing as cancer therapy (2 Lectures).
1. B. C. Baguley, and D. J. Kerr, Anticancer Drug Development, (2001), Elsevier (2001), First
2.  L.  Wolfgang,  Principles  of  Cancer  Treatment  and  Anticancer  Drug  Development,  (2019),
Springer (2019), First edition.
1. M. S. Chorghade, Drug Discovery and Development, Volume 1, Wiley (2006).
Online Course Material
1.  Changing  strategies  in  the  war  on  cancer  (Part2)  (https://www.adcreview.com/the-
2.  Changing  strategies  in  the  war  on  cancer  (Part3)  (https://www.adcreview.com/the-
3. Discovery of biomarkers predictive of anticancer drug response in preclinical settings by Dr.
70 | P a g e
Modern approaches for immunotherapy
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The human immune system: mechanisms to
detect, defend and attack
The instructor will:
1. provide an insight about the  potential of  the component of immune systems as therapeutics
1. Student will be able to understand the possible consequences of using different component of
immune systems as therapeutics.
2. Students will be able to design an immunotherapeutics
Fractal  1:  Fundamentals  of  Immunotherapeutics  [14  Lectures]:  Principle  and  scope  of  immune-
therapeutics,  classification  of  immune-therapeutics  (4  lectures),  immune  modulators  and
immunoadjuvant (5 lectures), soluble cytokine receptor and recombinant cytokines (5 lectures).
Fractal  2:  Antibody  Engineering  [14  Lectures]:  Human  monoclonal  antibody,  human  hybridoma
and  phage  display  library  (4  lectures),  chimeric,  humanized  and  fully  human  antibodies  (4
lectures),  engineered  therapeutic  antibodies  (type,  synthesis,  and  mechanism  of  action)  (4
lectures), antibody fragments (2 lectures).
Fractal  3  Cellular  immunotherapeutics  [14  Lectures]:    Principle  of  cell  based  adoptive  immune
therapy (3 lectures), tetramer technology and selection of antigen specific CTL (2 lectures), CAR T
cell  therapy,  NK  cell  therapy  (4  lectures),  Dendritic  cell  vaccine,  immune-adjuvant  therapy,
exosome mediated treatment (5 lectures).
1. B. T. Smith, Concepts in Immunology and Immunotherapeutics, American society of health-
system pharmacists (2008) , 4th Edition.
1. P. A. Ascierto , D. F. Stroncek , E. Wang, Developments in T Cell Based Cancer
Immunotherapies, Humana (2015), 1st edition.
1.  MITOpenCourseware,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-012-introduction-to-biology-fall-
71 | P a g e
Novel Drug Delivery Systems
Bioscience and Bioengineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  deep  insight  on  different  strategies  in  designing  a  drug  delivery  system  to  overcome
potential physiological barriers.
2.  Provide  conceptual  basis  to  integrate  different  drug  delivery  systems  with  modern  electronic
platforms for remote monitoring and management of patients.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design a drug delivery system for a specific application.
2. Formulate novel strategies for personalized drug delivery.
Fractal  1.  Sustained  and  stimuli-responsive  drug  delivery  systems  [14  lectures]:  particulate  and
vesicular  drug  delivery  systems  (5  lectures),  hydrogels  (2  lectures),  pH,  temperature,  light  and
magnetic field responsive drug delivery systems (5 lectures), iontophoretic drug delivery systems (2
Fractal  2.  Site-specific  drug  delivery  [14lectures]:  Route  of  drug  administration  and  its  limitations,
site-specific drug delivery systems (4 lectures), delivery vehicles to cross blood brain barrier (BBB),
colon-specific  drug  delivery,  ocular  drug  delivery  system  (5  lectures),  transdermal  patches  to  cross
skin barrier, tumor specific drug delivery, lung specific drug delivery (5 lectures).
Fractal 3. State-of-art drug delivery systems [14 Lectures]: IoT and remote controlled drug delivery
systems  (5  lectures),  biomimetic  systems  for  drug  delivery  (3  lectures);  delivery  of  cell  based
therapeutics (3 lectures), case studies on state-of-art drug delivery systems (3 lectures).
1. W. R. Wagner, Biomaterials Science: An Introduction to Materials in Medicine, Academic Press Inc
(2020); 4th edition.
2.  R.K.  Keservani,  A.K.  Sharma,  Nanoparticulate  Drug  Delivery  Systems,  Apple  Academic  Press
(2019), 1st edition.
1. Controlled and novel drug delivery, N.K. Jain, 2019, CBN Publishers, 1st edition.
1. Prof. Rachit Agarwal, IISc Bangalore, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/102/108/102108077/
2.  MIT  Open  Courseware,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/biology/7-341-the-microbiome-and-drug-
72 | P a g e
Department  Bioscience and Bioengineering
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an insight on the design principles of theranostic systems.
2. Introduce various techniques for characterizations of theranostic systems.
3. Decipher the possible mode of application of theranostic systems in diseased conditions.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design and develop a theranostic system for a specific application.
2.  Compare  the  performance  of  different  theranostic  materials  on  the  basis  of  their  physico-
chemical and biological properties.
Fractal 1. Introduction to theranostic systems [14 lectures]: Key features of theranostic systems (1
lectures); combinatorial modalities of theranostic system (1 lectures); basic theranostic templates:
mesoporous  materials  (2  lectures),  carbon  nanostructures  (2  lectures),  membrane  vesicles  (2
lectures);  surface  engineering  of  theranostic  platforms  (2  lectures);  up-  and  down-conversion,
magnetic, plasmonic and radioactive platforms (4 lectures).
Fractal  2.  Physico-chemical  characterization  of  theranostic  systems  [14  lectures]:  photophysical
and photochemical properties (3 lectures), magnetic properties (T1 and T2 relaxations) (2 lectures),
hyperthermia  (4  lectures);  plasmonic  properties:  localized  surface  plasmon  resonance  (LSPR)  (3
lectures), quantification of radioactivity (2 lectures).
Fractal 3. Case studies on theranostic systems [14 lectures]: Case studies on theranostic systems
for cancer (5 lectures), vascular and brain diseases (5 lectures); Case studies on laparoscopy and
endoscopy-guided theranostic systems (4 lectures).
1.  Z.  Dai,  Advances  in  Nanotheranostics  I:  Design  and  Fabrication  of  Theranostic  Nanoparticles
(Springer Series in Biomaterials Science and Engineering Book 6) 1st edition (2016) ISBN-10: 978-
2.  Z.  Dai,  Advances  in  Nanotheranostics  II:  Cancer  Theranostic  Nanomedicine  (Springer  Series  in
Biomaterials Science and Engineering Book 7) 1st edition (2016) ISBN 978-981-10-0063-8 .
1. S.T. Selvan, K. Narayanan, Introduction to Nanotheranostics (Springer Briefs in Applied Sciences
and Technology) 1st edition (2016) ISBN 978-981-10-1008-8
2.J. Conde, Handbook of Nanomaterials for Cancer Theranostics, Elsevier, (2018) ISBN: 978-012-
73 | P a g e
Program-linked Science Elective/Open Elective
74 | P a g e
Bioscience and Bioengineering
1. The course provides insights of human nervous systems.
2. This course offers an introduction to the basic principles of brain functioning.
The  students  will  have  the  ability  to:  Gain  experience  for  the  future  forefront  of  their  research
career  and  this  can  be  applied  to  fields,  where  understanding  brain  response  to  complex  machine
sensory information inputs.
Introduction  of  Neuroscience  [5  Lectures]:  Nervous  systems:  basic  structure,  development  and
complexity and cellular component of nervous tissue.
Neuronal architecture [5 Lectures]: structure and functional properties of neurons, types of neurons
and supporting cells of nervous tissue.
Neurotransmitters  and  Synaptic  Integration  [5  Lectures]:  Neurotransmitters  signaling,  action
potential propagation, synapse and synaptic transmission and electrical or chemical synapses.
Brief Anatomy of Brain [5 Lectures]: Brain structure overview, white and gray matter and different
sectional views of brain.
Fundamentals  of  Sensory  Systems  [5  Lectures]:  Sensory  systems    principles,  sensitization  and
desensitization of sensory receptors and sensory coding.
Somatosensory System [5 Lectures]: Organization of somatosensory system, various receptors  viz
mechanoreceptors, proprioceptors, nociceptors, thermal receptors and visceral sensations.
Motor  System  [5  Lectures]:  Neuromuscular  junction,  primary  and  secondary  motor  cortex  and
integration of sensory signals to motor actions and motor neuron diseases.
Auditory  System  [5  Lectures]:  Structure  of  internal  ear,  temporal  responsiveness,  ribbon  synapse
and mapping at auditory cortex.
Visual  System  [5  Lectures]:  Structural  organization  of  visual  pathways;  visual  perception  and
processing, photoreceptors and high-level visual processing.
1. Zigmond., Fundamental Neuroscience,  Elsevier (2018), 5th Edition.
1. E. R. Kandel., Principles of Neural Science,  Elsevier (2018), 5th Edition.
Dr.  Varadhan  SKM,  Neuroscience  of  Human  Movement,  NPTEL  Course  Material  Department  of
Biomedical Engineering IIT Madras, Link: https://nptel.ac.in/noc/courses/noc18/SEM2/noc18-ge13/
75 | P a g e