Advanced Digital VLSI Circuit Design
Today state of the art, complex System on a Chip (SoC), are capable  of integrating few billion
transistors  on  a  substrate  economically.  At  the  same  time,  such  circuits  are  produced  in  the
fabrication plants that requires billions of dollars of investment. Therefore, circuit designers and
architects must be aware of circuit as well as manufacturing challenges associated with it in order
to design SoCs economically. In this course, the attendees will be exposed to advanced digital
The primary objectives of the course are as follows:
This  is  an  advanced  digital  VLSI  circuit  design  course  that  builds  on  a  basic
understanding of MOS transistor. Students will be exposed to the state on the subject
Providing students hand-on training and skills to design and simulate circuits in labs.
  March 7-18, 2016.
  Number  of  participants  for  the  course  will  be  limited  to  30.
Shortlisted  candidate  would be notified  via  email  through  GIAN
  Accommodations  are  available  on  first-come  first-serve  basis
o  you are a graduate student or an engineer interested in gaining
an understanding of the VLSI circuit design.
o  you are  a  researcher  interested  in  developing skills  to  design
and simulate circuits in lab.
o  you are  a research  scientist or a young faculty interested  in
applying your circuit design concepts to produce them
The participation fees# for taking the course is as follows:
  Participants from Abroad: USD 200
  Academic Institutions: INR 2000/-
Industry/Research organization: INR 5,000 /-
The  above  fee  include  all  instructional  materials,  computer  use  for
tutorials  and  assignments,  laboratory  equipment  usage  charges,  24  hr
free internet facility.
# The participation fee is in addition to the registration fee that is to be paid on the GIAN
Professor  Manoj  Sachdev
the  Electrical  and
Computer Engineering department, at
the  University  of  Waterloo,  Canada.
His  research  interests  include  low
power  and  high  performance  digital
circuit  design,  mixed-signal  circuit
design, test and manufacturing issues
of integrated circuits. He has contributed to five books, two book
chapters, and has co-authored 200 technical articles in conferences
and journals. He holds more than 30 granted and several pending
US patents on various aspects of VLSI circuit design, reliability, and
test, and has been consultant to several semiconductor companies.
He,  his  students,  and  his  colleagues  have  received  several
international  awards.  In  1997,  at  the  IEEE  European  Design  and
Test  Conference,  he  received  the  best  paper  award.  In  1998,  he
was a co-recipient of the honorable mentioned award in the IEEE
International Test Conference. He received the best panel award in
2004 IEEE VLSI Test Symposium. In 2011, he was a co-recipient of
the best paper award in IEEE International Symposium on Quality
Electronics  Design;  In  2015,  he  was  a  co-receipient  of  the  best
poster paper award in IEEE Custom Integrated Circuits Conference.
Professor  Sachdev  is  an  IEEE  Fellow,  and  Fellow  of  Engineering
Institute  of  Canada;  and  has  served  on  several  conference
committees. In 1999, he  was the Technical Program Co-Chair for
IEEE Mixed-signal Test Workshop. He also served as the Technical
Program Chair from IEEE IDDQ Test Workshop in 1999, and 2000.
In  2007-08,  he  was  an  Associate  Editor  for  IEEE  Transactions  on
Vehicular Technology. In 2008 and 2009, he was the Program Chair
for  Microsystems  and  Nanoelectronics  Research  Conference,
Ottawa, Canada. He serves on the editorial board of the Journal of
Electronic  Testing:    Theory  and  Applications.  He  is  a  program
committee  member  of
Dr. Sachdev received his B.E. degree (with Honors) in Electronics
and  Communication  Engineering  from  University  of  Roorkee
(India),  and  Ph.D.  from  Brunel  University  (UK).  He  was  with
Semiconductor Complex Limited, Chandigarh (India) from 1984 till
1989 where he designed CMOS Integrated Circuits. From 1989 till
1992,  he  worked  in  the  ASIC  division  of  SGS-Thomson  at  Agrate
(Italy). In 1992, he joined Philips Research Laboratories, Eindhoven
(The Netherlands), where he researched on various aspects of VLSI
testing and manufacturing.
Dr. Suresh Gundapaneni