Advanced Materials and Future Technologies
for Solar Energy Conversion
This  is  an  interdisciplinary,  short-course  that  provides  a  treatment  of  the  conversion  and  conservation  of  solar
energy using advanced materials. The course is designed for one credit and it will be divided into three themes:
Introduction to solar energy materials and characterization techniques.
  Different assemblies of solar cells.
  Fabrication of new generation solar cells.
The  organic  semiconductors  as  well  as  hybrids  of  inorganic  and  organic  materials  have  emerged  out  as
technologically  relevant  materials  capable  of  innovative  processing  methods  such  as  coating  and  printing  from
solution. This has triggered new generation technologies in display technology, electronics and photovoltaics. The
course  will  involve  fundamental  understanding  of  chemical  and  functional  properties  of  these  materials  and
structure-property  relations.  The  physical  nature  of  energy  materials  will  be  developed  from  a  ‘bottom  up’
perspective,  beginning  with  the  manner  in  which  such  materials  can  be  synthesized.  After  synthesis,  the
technologist  must  know  the  quality  of  the  materials  that  have  been  synthesized,  and  the  course  will  cover  a
diverse  range  of  contemporary  structural/morphological  characterization  methods  such  as  SEM,  TEM  and  XRD.
Finally, the  course  will focus  on functional  characteristics  for a  variety  of  solar  energy  conversion processes  and
fabrication  of  devices. Here,  the  course  will  cover basic  functional characterization techniques  with reference  to
state-of-the-art technologies. In this manner, the theoretical courses will be supplemented by practical hands-on
training on solar cell preparation and characterization for young scientists.
You should attend if…
Course Duration: 8 - 12 Jan, 2018
Last Date for registration: 20, December 2017
Number of participants for the course will be limited to fifty.
It will be compulsory for registered participants to attend the entire module.
You  are  a  graduate  student  or  an  engineer  interested  in  gaining  an
understanding of the fundamental elements of energy materials.
You  are  a  researcher  interested  in  developing  skills  to  implement  them  for
energy materials for solar energy conversion and utilization.
You are a research scientist  or a young faculty interested in gaining practical
hands-on  training  on  solar  cell  preparation  and  characterization  and
innovative  energy  technologies  of  future
  Academic Institutes and Government Aided Organizations: Rs. 1000
Industry/Private Organizations: Rs. 2000
Participants from abroad : US $200
Accommodation will be made available at IITJ Guest House and Hostel on first
come first serve basis upon payment.
course  material  and
Prof.  Mukundan  Thelakkat
is  working  as
Professor  for  Applied  Functional  Polymers  at
Bayreuth,  Germany.  A  key  theme  running
through  his  research  activities  is  the  design,
development  and  application  of  complex,
multifunctional  organic  and  hybrid  material
systems,  especially  built  up  of  charge  transport
molecules,  charge  generation  materials,  and
chromophores.  He  has  been  working  continuously  in  the  field  of
organic  semiconductors  and  devices  for  the  last  25  years  and  has
specialized  in  tailor-made  synthesis  of  functional  molecules  and
polymers  for  charge  transfer  and  energy  transfer  processes.  He  is  a
member of director board of Indian-Bavarian Centre in Germany and
is  a  Coordinator  for  the  Multimillion  Euro  project  of  Bavarian
Research  Network,  “Solar  technologies  Go  Hybrid”.  At  present,  his
research  group,  Applied  Functional  Polymers,  is  intensively  involved
tailored  multifunctional  self-assembling  copolymers,  block
copolymers,  bridged  donor-acceptor  systems,  light  harvesting  dyes,
photoswitchable  chromophore systems, conjugated polyelectrolytes,
battery  materials  and  bioelectronics.  In  the  field  of  organic  devices,
Prof.  Thelakkat  has  profound  knowledge  and  experience  on  OLEDs,
solar  cells,  and  batteries,  with  focus  on  energy  conversion  and
Prof.  Ritu  Gupta  is  Assistant  Professor  at  Indian
Institute  of  Technology,  Jodhpur.  Her  research
interest includes flexible and transparent devices,
as  well  as  scalable  synthesis  of  nanomaterials  for
application in energy devices.
INSTRUCTION FOR REGISTRATION:
It  shall  state  –  ‘Registration  to  the  portal  is  one  time  affair  and
will be valid for lifetime of  GIAN. Once registered in the portal,
an  applicant  will  be  able  to  apply  for  any  number  of  GIAN
courses as and when necessary. One time Nonrefundable fee of
Rs. 500/- is to be charged for this service. Please also note that
mere  registration  to  the  portal  will  not  ensure  participation  in
(3)  Once done with registration, please select the course ‘Advanced
Materials  and Future Technologies for  Solar Energy Conversion’
from the list of courses. 4. Send the copy of registration details
from GIAN website to the following email; gianiitj@gmail.com
Dr. Ritu Gupta
E-mail: ritu@iitj.ac.in; gianiitj@gmail.com
For registration, log