Fundamentals of Applied Vehicle
With the advent of the use of a variety of automotive vehicles in India, there is an urgent need to improve the infrastructure on
the roads and the highways that these vehicles ride. Equally important is a good understanding of how a vehicle and the driver
interact  to  improve  the  performance  on  a  given  road  profile.  Two  main  performance  measures  in  this  context  are  the  ride
comfort and vehicle handling. Together, these form in to a course discipline called Vehicle Dynamics and Chassis System Design.
This proposed course has been  developed for  engineering professors,  engineers and technical personnel involved in all fields
related  to  the  automotive  vehicle  design  or  development.  These  include,  powertrain  systems,  braking  systems,  vehicle
dynamics,  chassis  system  design,  or  suspension  systems.  Additionally,  this  course  can  be  valuable  to  those  with  component
design responsibilities in the above areas. The course topics will be covered by a group of qualified faculty and possibly by the
CSM  Software  Company  representative.  Many  of  the  concepts  covered  in  the  lectures  are  planned  to  be  complimented  by
hands-on ADAMS Car simulation package and constant interaction through Q&A, which further enhances learner interactivity.
Course participants will learn these topics through lectures and hands-on experiments. Also case studies and assignments will
be shared to stimulate research motivation of participants.
Acceleration and Brake Performance
: January 12 – January 17
Tire Dynamics, Ride and Steering/Cornering : January 19 – January 23
Number of participants for the course will be limited to fifty.
you  are  a  practicing  mechanical  engineer  or  research  scientist  interested  in  understanding
basic  principles  of  vehicle  dynamics,  or  involved  in  various  components  or  subsystems  of
powertrain, wheels, steering or chassis systems.
you are  test engineer interested to learn the principles of vehicle dynamics ride and handling
conditions and the parameters that affect these.
you are a student  or faculty  from academic  institution  interested in teaching/learning the
several design and dynamics topics related to automotive vehicles and how to do research in
the vehicle dynamics and chassis systems.
The participation fees for taking the course is as follows:
Participants from abroad : US $500
Industry/ Research Organizations: Rs. 10000 for one module
Academic Institutions: Rs. 1000 for one module
The above fee includes all instructional materials.
Prof. Raghu Echempati is in the faculty of Mechanical
Engineering  at  Kettering  University,  Flint,  MI  (USA).
His research interests include  Automotive Machine &
Mechanisms  Design,  Vibrations,  Modeling  and  Study
of  Automotive  Vehicle  and  Train  Dynamics,  Applied
Finite  Element  Modeling  &  Analysis,  and  Sheet  Metal  Forming
B.  Ravindra  is  the  Associate  Professor  of  Mechanical
Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology,  Jodhpur,
RJ  (INDIA).  His  area  of  expertise  includes  Vibrations
and modeling of smart actuators.
Prof. B. Ravindra
Phone: +91-291 2449041