Synthesis and Characterization of
Materials for Energy Storage Devices
This is an interdisciplinary, short-course that provides a treatment of the storage, conversion, and conservation of
energy using advanced materials. The course is uniquely designed for one credit and it will be divided into three
Synthesis of Advanced Energy Materials
Surface and Structural Characterization
Assembly of Energy Storage Devices
The  physical  nature  of  energy  materials  will  be  developed  from  a  ‘bottom  up’  perspective,  beginning  with  the
manner in which such materials are synthesized. The synthesis topics will include detailed treatments of both dry
(e.g., CVD) and wet chemical approaches. The content will also incorporate contemporary research directions, such
as directed/patterned synthesis in situ.  After synthesis, the technologist  must know the quality of the materials
that  have  been  synthesized,  and  with  this  in  mind,  the  course  is  aimed  to  cover  a  diverse  range  of  surface
characterization methods. Here, fundamental understanding of these methods will be developed as a foundation
for those who work with energy storage  materials but might not have a deep background in analytical methods.
Finally,  the  course  will  focus  on  functional  characteristics  of  assembled  devices  for  a  variety  of  energy-related
purposes  including  storage,  conversion,  and  conservation.  Basic  functional  characterization  techniques  with
reference to state-of-the-art technologies, as well as means of establishing objective comparisons of performances
within and among the competing approaches to electrical energy storage, will be discussed.
  Number of participants for the course will be limited to 50.
Registration fees includes course material.
Accommodations are available at IITJ Guest House on first come first serve basis
You should attend if…
you are a graduate student or an engineer interested in gaining an understanding
of the fundamental elements of energy materials.
you  are  a  researcher  interested  in  developing  skills  to  implement  the  synthesis
and characterization of energy materials.
you  are  a  research  scientist  or  a  young  faculty  interested  in  applying  energy
materials to problems of contemporary importance ranging from energy storage
to conservation to conversion.
Academic Institutes and Government Aided Organizations: Rs. 1000
Industry/ Private Organizations: Rs. 4000
Participants from abroad : US $200
Prof.  Timothy  S.  Fisher
is  James  G.  Dwyer
Professor  in  Mechanical  Engineering  at  Purdue
University,  USA.  His  research  has  included  studies
of  nanoscale  heat  transfer,  carbon  nanomaterial
synthesis,  coupled  electro-thermal  effects
semiconductor and electron emission devices, energy conversion and
storage  materials  and  devices,  microfluidic  devices,  biosensing  and
related computational methods ranging from atomistic to continuum
scales. He is active in service to  the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers  through  a  variety  of  responsibilities,  and  is  a  former  Co-
Editor of the journal Energy Conversion & Management and currently
Specialty  Chief  Editor  for  Heat  and  Mass  Transfer  of  the  journal
Frontiers  in  Mechanical  Engineering.  Prof.  Fisher  has  taught  a
nanoHUB-U  course  on  Thermal  Energy  at
Prof. Giridhar U. Kulkarni is a Professor, Chemistry
and Physics of Materials Unit, JNCASR and Director
at  CeNS,  Bangalore,  India.  His  present  research
interests are focused on new strategies in synthesis
of  nanomaterials,  nanopatterning  and  nanodevice
including  molecular  systems.  His
recipes  emphasize  the  importance  of  simple  design,  near  ambient
working  conditions,  solution  based  processing  as  well  as  low  cost
instrumentation.  His  group  strives  to  translate  nanoresearch  finding
into affordable technology.
Prof.  Rakesh  K  Sharma  is  currently  Assistant
Professor and Head of Chemistry Department at
Indian  Institute  of  Technology,  Jodhpur.  His
present  research  interest  include  catalysis,  new
materials for energy harvesting and storage, and
solar hydrogen production via water splitting.
Dr.  Ritu  Gupta  is  currently  Assistant  Professor  at
Institute  of  Technology,  Jodhpur.  Her
research interest includes flexible and transparent
devices,  as  well  as
nanomaterials for application in energy devices.
Dr. Ritu Gupta
Phone: (+91)0291-2449033; +917073585144
For registration, log on