MBA - TechnologyIIT Jodhpur School of Management and EntrepreneurshipSpecialization Tracks:
Managing Digital Enterprises with Analytics & AI
Digital Product Design and Management
Fintech and Cybersecurity• • • Next-Gen Tech and Data ProfessionalsThe  MBA Designed For OnlyPowered by
ProgramContext of theAs the tech and data industries continue to drive seismic transformations, tech employers are no longer interested in candidates with generic managerial skills.They are looking for skillsets that are equipped to connect the dots between rapidly evolving technologies and the business challenges organizations face on a daily basis. They are looking at skilled professionals who can build opportunities in a highly competitive world, where business meshes intrinsically with technology.Technology and data are primary catalysts for change across industries, forcing businesses to reinvent their modus operandi continuously. The past few years have seen dynamic changes in the tech sector with rapid evolutions in AI, Generative AI and analytics, cybersecurity and fintech, robotics, automation, blockchain, innovations with IoT and digital twins, and many more. Next-Gen managers of the tech industry must have a hybrid skillset to ensure a deep understanding of how these fast-evolving technologies can create value and opportunities, drive efficiency, or impact their businesses. That is why a generic MBA degree may not provide any competitive advantage to tech professionals in future. On the other hand, pursuing an MBA designed specifically for tech or data job roles can better prepare managers to navigate the future of work and business.This Involves Building Equal Expertise in:Emerging Technology Sales and Business DevelopmentStrategy portfolios around Economics of Digital PlatformsBig Data and Business IntelligenceProduct ManagementBusiness ContinuityTechnology ConsultingThe world has changed drastically in past few years.The skills businesses demand today are drastically different too.
Technology leadership in an age of constantly evolving emerging technologies will never be possible with a conventional MBA. Developing professionals for these roles is one of the major premises that make MBA - Technology highly relevant and yet different from conventional MBA.SkillsAI & AutomationCloudProduct EngineeringMobilityDigital TransformationData and AnalyticsInternet of thingsThe OpportunityTechnology companies and roles have seen immense growth, taking over the finance leaders in terms of market capitalization, with the top five tech giants (Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Alphabet, and Facebook) boasting a combined figure of over USD 9 trillion.The opportunity for well-rounded tech-savvy business professionals is huge, but the right skill-sets are non-negotiable.Salary data underscores the financial benefits of an MBA Tech qualification, with professionals holding this degree earning, on average, 20% more than their counterparts with traditional MBA qualifications.70%Tech Employers actively seek Candidates who can seamlessly Integrate Business Strategies with Technological Innovations40%Companies cite a Lack of Digital and Tech Capabilities, indicating the Value Contribution of Leadership and Managerial Roles is increasingly shifting to Tech Specialists.
Managing Digital Enterprises with Analytics & AIDigital Product Design and ManagementFintech and cybersecurityThe MBA - Technology Program of IIT Jodhpur is visualised as
an MBA for Future OrganizationsThe MBA-Tech program focuses on ,  and , as well as . It is a wholesome package created for professionals who want to study , and alongside want to analyze the  of top tech companies, such as , , as well as other start-ups which are considered digital masters. They will study  with a strong emphasis on the . They want to build expertise in operations and supply chain but with a focus on e-commerce companies. Digital FinanceData AnalyticsAIDigital TransformationBusiness StrategyCorporate StrategyAmazonGoogleEconomicsDigital EconomyThe MBA Technology program is designed for tech companies where, apart from tech essentials, tech strategy-related expertise become essential.A ‘Human Resources Management’ course is replaced by ‘Managing Human Capital’; a leadership course is replaced by ‘Technology Leadership’; and an economics course emphasizes key aspects of a ‘Digital Economy’.Digital FinanceData AnalyticsData Privacy and GovernanceCybersecurityCorporate StrategyBusiness StrategyFintech Revolutiondigital economyAIDigital TransformationDigital Asset ManagementBusiness ContinuitySpecializations Available:
The MBA Technology Program by
School of Management and Entrepreneurship: IIT Jodhpur
Finally, an MBA program Designed Specifically for Tech and Data Professionals!
Discover a groundbreaking educational experience with the MBA - Technology Program - thefirst of its
kind and highly  industry-aligned degree that has  been  designed  by  the  top  faculty  at  IIT Jodhpur
School of Management and Entrepreneurship, with extensive inputs from various technology, data, and
business  practice  heads  and  CXOs.  The  program  aims to  build  a  generation  of  managers
who can integrate  technology, data and  business seamlessly, and  contextualize  the  various  industry
shifts attributed to technology to drive profitability. It is a rigorous journey of intense learning about the
skills,  technologies,  applications,  and  practices  for  the  exploration  and  investigation  of  existing  tech
and data assets to gain insight and not only drive business planning but ensure business Continuity.
The  program  has  been  designed  specifically  keeping  in  mind  the  competencies  expected
in the future, in managers working  in  the  technology  domain, as elements  of cutting-edge AI,  data
and emerging technologies are spread throughout various courses across the program holistically.
IIT  Jodhpur  and  the  School  of  Management  and  Entrepreneurship is well  known  for  its  excellence  in
academics, research, and creative accomplishments as well as their multidisciplinary approach built in
alignment  with  industry  demands. The  extensively  researched  and industry-relevant curriculum not
only  addresses  traditional  business functions such  as  marketing,  finance,  and  operations  but  also
delves into specialized technology-driven domains.
The 24-month program weaves academic and conceptual learnings from top faculty at IIT Jodhpur,
augmented  by  application  and use-case-driven sessions  conducted  by  key  industry  experts  and
leaders  from  organizations that are  driving  technology
all providing  a  truly  holistic  and  global  perspective  of modern-day business  challenges  and
opportunities.  The  program  provides  an  opportunity  for  candidates  to  specialize
demand job segments and  high-growth  domains such  as  Advanced  Analytics  and  AI  as  well  as
cybersecurity and fintech, global program management, and more.
The  Only  MBA  Designed  to  Build  Tech  Centric  Organization  Managers  and
Leaders and offered by an IIT:
As one of the most future-focused technology institutions in India, IIT Jodhpur plays a distinctive role
in  education, research and  expertise  in  new  and  emerging  technologies  as  well  as  the  future  of
technology. The MBA Technology is a groundbreaking offering to leverage the rich tech expertise and
build management and business acumen for tech leaders of the future.
IIT  Jodhpur  MBA  -  Technology  Program  has  a  completely  industry-integrated
curriculum, designed with a focus on
, data analytics, and
strategic  applications  of  technology  in  business.  The  curriculum  is  continuously
updated to stay ahead of industry trends.
The program offers a diverse array of electives under the MBA-Technology track.
Fintech Cybersecurity Global  Program  Management IT  Product  Design
Advanced  AI  and  Analytics
their specializations to  match  their  career  aspirations  in  the  dynamic  field  of
, students  can
Learn  from  distinguished  faculty  comprising  renowned
bring  in  the  best  academic  experiences  into  the  classroom,  nurturing  as  well  as
challenging  students  at  the  same  time.  The  rigorous  program  with  Multiple
Assessments, Assignments and Examinations ensure a solid learning outcome.
IIT  Jodhpur  Faculty
Application Focused Learning from top Industry Leaders
Learn  from  key industry
leaders,  practice  heads  and  CXOs who  discuss
various industry challenges, unique business models, tech-driven opportunities and
efficiency  use  cases, explain business  success  metrics  and  growth  models  with  a
wide  range  of  case  studies,  practical examples  and data-driven decision-
making insights.  This  also  brings  in the ability  to  network  extensively  within  the
Experiential and Immersive Learning
The  program  integrates  industry  use  cases,  mini-projects,  assignments,  and
capstone  projects.  This  hands-on  approach  ensures  that  students  are  well-
prepared to apply their knowledge in real-world scenarios.
Graduates of the
track are well-positioned for leadership roles in
technology-driven  enterprises,  startups,  and  established  corporations  seeking
professionals  with  a  unique  blend  of  business  acumen  and  technological
proficiency. The  top  performers  of  the  program  will  have  placement  assistance
support from Futurense.
Program foryouWho is theThe program is tailored for ,  or aspirants who want to build a career in business or managerial roles within the industry.Tech ProfessionalsData ProfessionalsIt is also a perfect program for candidates seeking roles in , , , , , as well as aspirants in various functions within a tech centric company such as marketing, finance, human resources, and others.Product ManagementProduct MarketingBusiness Analysis and IntelligenceFounder’s OfficesData AnalyticsIn addition, this is also a highly relevant program for entrepreneurs who want to build a  or  and need expertise in both.TechData Business3 or 4 YearsBTechSTEM of graduation degree in  or  fields (4 years BTech or STEM candidates will be preferred)Minimum  marks in , or 60%UndergraduationPostgraduationAtleast  in related field (tech, data, analytics, engineering, tech management roles)2 years of Work ExperienceAdmission through and  (the applicant must quality the pre-screen test to be eligible for the program)Pre-screening Test InterviewEligibilityCandidate should have  at the time of applying to the program.2 Years of Work ExperienceWork experience other than these specified here will not be considered as relevant experience. No consideration will be given to the time spent in an internship. Final discretion in this regard lies with the institute authorities in terms of determining the type, level, and extent of work experience.Work experience of more or equal to 15 days in a month will be counted as 1 month and for less than 15 days, it will be counted as zero.Experience letter/offer letter, 1st and last month salary slips should be produced at the time of interview.  Failing to do so will lead to disqualification from the entire selection process.Regarding Work Experience
Next - gen Curriculum for a future-proof career: Deep Industry and
Global Experts Integration
Cutting-edge  curriculum  built  by  industry  experts and IIT  Jodhpur  Faculty based  on  extensive
studies on the needs of the industry
Application-oriented approach along with case studies and project work
The IIT Dream
Attain an MBA degree from IIT Jodhpur School of Management and Entrepreneurship
Achieve IIT Jodhpur Alumni Status
Become a part of IIT Jodhpur Alumni network
Network with wide-ranging experts from tech industry
Hybrid and Highly Experiential Learning
Live sessions every week
Masterclasses  by  top  industry  experts bringing  in  use  cases,  applications,  challenges
18 - 20 days campus immersion per year over two-years of the program
Industry-tether with Futurense
Fully Sponsored Futurense Bridge Course covering key foundational concepts
Futurense Job Assistance
Mastery of Technology-driven Business Strategies
Develop a deep understanding of the integration between technology and business,
enabling  graduates  to  formulate  and
innovative  strategies  that
leverage the power of data and emerging technologies
Data-driven Decision-making Proficiency
Acquire  advanced  skills  in  Data Analytics and  AI,  empowering  graduates  to  make
informed, data-driven decisions in complex business scenarios.
Deep Specialization in Cutting Edge Technologies/ Domains
Including AI and Generative AI, Fintech, Cybersecurity, Blockchain and other latest
technologies  as  well  as domain-specific areas  such  as IT  Product  Design  and
Development.  Stay  ahead  of  global  technology  trends,  preparing  graduates  to
navigate the complexities of international technology ecosystems
Case Study Driven Immersive Learning
Apply theoretical concepts learned in the classroom to real-world scenarios through
hands-on projects, industry use cases, and capstone projects, ensuring a practical
and experiential learning approach.
Innovation and Entrepreneurial Skills
Foster  an  entrepreneurial  mindset,  equipping  graduates  with  the  skills  to  identify
opportunities, innovate, and lead in dynamic business environments.
Career Readiness and Industry Connections
Graduate  with  the  skills  and  confidence  needed  to  excel  in  technology-driven
industries,  backed  by  a  robust  network  of  industry  connections  fostered  through
collaborations and interactions during the program.
Student JourneySubmit your ApplicationAppear for the Pre-Screening Test
(Aptitude, Conceptual and Technical)Pay Application Processing feeAppear for Video Interview
(Technical Expertise, Communication and Intent)Receive your Offer Letter
from IIT JodhpurStrengthen your Foundations through
Futurense Bridge CourseBecome an IITJodhpur
MBA Tech Graduate!Begin your IIT Jodhpur MBA Tech DegreeTrimesterto 1    6
Armed  with  this  dynamic  degree,  you  can  seamlessly  transition  into  diverse  fields  such  as  Finance,
Marketing,  HR,  Sales,  Operations,  Analytics,  and  more  within  a  tech-centric  company.  While  the
opportunities are limitless, some of the common roles awaiting your exploration include:
Potential Job Roles
World's leading companies are hiring for the most in-demand data job roles!
Managing  Digital Enterprises
Financial Accounting & Reporting
Statistics for Management
Marketing Management - I
Business  Research Methods
Data Management and Analysis
Corporate Finance - I
Macroeconomic Environment of Business
Digital  Behavioral Dynamics
IIT Jodhpur is an institution of eminence in areas of emerging technologies and launches new courses dynamically every
semester. Therefore, electives may be updated on a regular  basis and will be made available based on market trends, industry
requirements as well as discretion of faculty.
Business  Models for Digital Economy
Managing  Digital Workforce
Legal Aspects of Business
Big Data  and Cloud Computing
Machine  Learning (ML) Applications for Business
IIT Jodhpur is an institution of eminence in areas of emerging technologies and launches new courses dynamically every
semester. Therefore, electives may be updated on a regular  basis and will be made available based on market trends, industry
requirements as well as discretion of faculty.
Artificial  Intelligence (AI) for Business
CRM in  the age of Big Data
Industry    4.0  -  Applications  and  Future  of
Innovation  and IP Management
Grand Total: 66C+4NG+2CA
IIT Jodhpur is an institution of eminence in areas of emerging technologies and launches new courses dynamically every
semester. Therefore, electives may be updated on a regular  basis and will be made available based on market trends, industry
requirements as well as discretion of faculty.
Managing  Digital Enterprises with Analytics & AI Credits
Business  Analytics Lab-1
Analytics  Lab (Python)
Digital  Marketing Analytics & Optimization
Deep  Learning Applications for Business
IoT:  Competing in the age of Internet of Things
Ethical  Issues in AI
Mind and  Machines
People  Analytics and Intelligence
Digital Marketing Analytics & Optimization
Supply Chain Analytics
Social  Media Analytics
Analytics  for Project Management
Privacy  and Data Governance
Digital  Product Management
Game  Theory for Business Decisions
A minimum number of 15 candidates would be required for a specialization to be made available. In case the minimum number is
not met, the preference of the student will be taken into consideration.
Digital  Product Design and Management
Design  Thinking and Innovation
Ideation  & Prototyping
Digital  Product Management
Creating  Digital Products and Services
Marketing  for High Tech and Innovation
Privacy  and Data Governance
Analytics  in Project Management
A minimum number of 15 candidates would be required for a specialization to be made available. In case the minimum number is
not met, the preference of the student will be taken into consideration.
FinTech  & Cyber Security
Introduction to Information Security
Cyber Threats and Defense
Blockchains and Smart contracts
AI for  FinTech
Trends  in FinTech
FinTech  in Banking
Digital  Payment System
Corporate  Finance - II
New  Enterprise Financing
Fixed  Income Securities
Management  of Banks and Financial Institutions
Privacy  and Data Governance
Credit  Risk Management
Behavioural  Economics and Finance
Sentiment  Analysis for Financial Decision Making
A minimum number of 15 candidates would be required for a specialization to be made available. In case the minimum number is
not met, the preference of the student will be taken into consideration.
Campus ImmersionsCampus immersion will be an essential element of the program experience, in which learners must attend the campus activities and sessions on campus (IIT Jodhpur campus) each year for 18 - 20 days as per IIT Jodhpur schedule. Campus immersion attendance is mandatory to earn the program certificate. Learners will get a live classroom experience, with the opportunity to meet and learn in person from the esteemed faculty at IIT Jodhpur and engage in peer learning or presentations and project work.Exams may also be held during the immersion period. However, note that based on unforeseen and sudden circumstances, it may be subject to cancellation/postponement such as based on future emergency circumstances/COVID-19 advisory as issued by the Government of India.Experience being an IITian with Campus Immersions
Along with the core MBA courses, 6-8 Hands-On workshops will be conducted by industry experts to
equip  you  to  be  adept  at  using  latest  industry  tools,  solutions  and  best  practices  alongside  your
managerial and tech leadership skills.
Power BI for Power Dashboarding
Generative AI tools for Market
Research and Customer Listening
Presentation AI Tools
No Code Programming
Pitch Deck Building Sessions
Google Analytics and SEO
* Final list of workshops maybe modified based on current market and industry trends
DirectorsProgramDr. Deepak Kumar SaxenaDr. Deepak Kumar SaxenaAssistant ProfessorPhD (Trinity College Dublin)Dr. Deepak Kumar Saxena holds a PhD in Management Information Systems from Trinity College Dublin (Ireland). His current areas of interest include Enterprise Systems (on-premiseand cloud-based), Digital Transformation, and AI Ethics. He has published his works in ABS, ABDC, SCI, and Scopus-listed journals. He is currently serving as an Associate Editor for two Scopus-indexed journals and serving on the review panel of more than 20 internationally reputed Information Systems journals. At the School of Management & Entrepreneurship at IIT Jodhpur, he is currently the coordinator for the Digital Transformation & Business Intelligence area.Dr. Venkat Ram R. GanuthulaDr. Venkat Ram R. GanuthulaAssistant Professor PhD (IIT Madras)Prof. Venkat holds an MSc & PhD (dual-degree) in Management from IIT Madras. His primary area of research is Behavior Change, Judgment & Decision Making, Intelligence and Rationality. Dr. Venkat’s teaching interest lies in the science and practice of Behavior Change, Managerial Judgment and Decision Making, Organizational Behavior and Managing Human Capital. His research articles have been published in various leading journals like Frontiers in Psychology, The Psychologist-Manager Journal and Global Journal of Flexible Systems Management.
Vice President, Global
Operations and Head, APAC
Transformation | Strategy |
Operations | Analytics
Head of Data &
Analytics - AMEA
VP Enterprise Data
Group Chief Data and
Head Of Central
Data & Analytics
A V Rahul
Director - BI &
Chief Digital & AI
Chief Digital Officer
Global Head of
Data & AI Studio
Pankaj SrivastavaSVP - Head of Credit Analysis Unit OffshoreSupria DhandaCo-Founder & Managing PartnerSaurabh KumarDirector - Data EngineeringSatyakam MohantyFounder & Managing PartnerSharmistha ChaterjeeHead of Software and Systems EngineeringArvind BalasundramExecutive Director,
Commercial Insights & AnalyticsPraveen SathyadevHead Business Growth (VP)
Analytics, Insights and AIAkshay KumarResearch & Analytics LeaderAnirban NandiHead of AI Products & Analytics (Vice President)Indrani GoswamiAnalytics LeaderSumon MalVishal NagpalAarti KrishanDirector EngineeringData Science and Analytics LeaderDirector
Head of Information SecuritySrini OduruHead of IT Delivery and OperationsTushar SahuDirector Engineering
24 Months 660 Hours
26th July 2024
Application Processing Fee: ₹10,000 (If the Application is not accepted by IIT Jodhpur or by Futurense,
this amount will be refunded in full. However, if after acceptance of the Application, the student withdraws or drops out, for
any reason whatsoever, this amount is strictly non-refundable)
Course Fee: ₹8,40,000(payable in 2 installments of INR 4,40,000 at the time of enrollment and
INR 4,00,000 at the onset of Year 2)
Administrative Fee: ₹25,000
The decision on change in fees is at the discretion of the Management of SME, IIT Jodhpur. The detailed fee structure will be provided to the
selected candidates with the admission offer letter.
No refunds post the last date of registration
(Includes lodging, meals excluded)
Live Online Sessions
+ Campus Immersion each year as per IIT schedule (18 - 20 days per year)
Friday, Saturday and Sunday
The class schedule will be determined by IIT Jodhpur and is
scheduled to take place on Fridays (late evenings), Saturdays, and
Sundays, subject to the availability of the faculty.
*The application processing fee shall not be refunded if the candidate chooses to withdraw.
**The subject to change as per the faculty and IIT-J Policies
Admission ProcessApplicationApplication processing feesApproval of ApplicationSuccessful Enrollment
after Fee PaymentReceive Offer Letter
from IIT JodhpurVideo Interview(Technical Expertise, Communication and Intent)PRE-SCREEN TEST(Aptitute, Conceptual and Technical)
The Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was founded in 2008 with a focus on technology education
and  research  to  promote  the  economic  development  of  India.  Its  permanent  campus  is  spread  over
852  acres  and  has  state-of-the-art  facilities  for  research  and  academic  activities.  The  institute  is
committed to a multidisciplinary approach to technology development and has organized its degree
programs through departments and research activities through centers for technologies.
In addition to its focus on traditional education, lIT Jodhpur has been actively pursuing programs in
executive  mode  for  working professionals.  The  institute  has  been  leveraging  its  academic  expertise,
industry collaborations, and infrastructure to create a range of high-quality programs that cater to the
needs of today's professionals. Its faculty members, with extensive industry experience and academic
expertise, bring a unique blend of theoretical knowledge and practical experience to the classroom.
To  establish  itself  as  a  leader  industry  aligned  programs  for  professionals,  IT  Jodhpur  has  been
developing programs that are relevant and contemporary to the evolving needs of the industry. It has
also established strong industry linkages to develop customized programs that cater to the specific
needs  of  their  employees.  The  institute  has  invested  in  state-of-the-art  infrastructure,  modern
classrooms,  well-equipped  labs,  a  vast  collection  of  books  and  research  papers  in  the  library,  and
online learning platforms and tools to provide an immersive learning experience to the participants.
School of Management and Entrepreneurship (SME)AboutThe IIT Jodhpur SME aims to combine technology and management to prepare students to explore a future of possibilities. SME is set to play a crucial role in delivering cutting edge management and entrepreneurial education to existing and future professionals. With its future centric curriculum, exceptional faculty, and strong international footprint, SME has the right ingredients to achieve a leadership position among its peers with time to come.SME has been conceptualized with a broader vision to evolve not only as a center of excellence for management training and business education but also contribute to the overall academic vibrance of IIT Jodhpur. To this end, SME will also be offering educational programs in Management and Entrepreneurship and equip the students from other academic units on these critical skills that could better prepare them for their specialized careers and engage in job creation.With such a clarity and focus, IIT Jodhpur is comparable to MIT and Sloan School of Management within MIT premises which have co-existed for a long time and have been guiding the entire world via high quality research and also producing deserving business leaders. There is no similar example in India so far.
Futurense TechnologiesAboutAt Futurense, we build next-gen technology talent that hold the key to a smarter and tech savvier future.Futurense - The Godfather of Talent, is a new-age tech talent organization that provides an ideal platform for tech talent to unlock its true potential through its career-accelerating ecosystem and enables Fortune 500 companies to access an untapped talent pool.With a mission to democratize the playing field for the tech talent of the country, Futurense, under its new initiative Futurense.uni, aims to transform tech education, together with top educational institutions in the country. Futurense leverages the well-established educational ecosystem of universities and combines it with its own next-gen outcome-focused approach through immersive learning experiences and
building future-proof careers.CONTACT USLet’s get in TouchIndian Institute of Technology Jodhpur,
NH62 Nagaur Road
Karwar 342030, Jodhpur,
Rajasthan, India.+91 97173 86019iitj.mbatech@futurense.comoffice_eep@iitj.ac.inuni.futurense.comwww.iitj.ac.inwww.iitj.ac.in/schools