About Research | School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science | IIT Jodhpur
Laboratory image of research activity
Research at School Of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
The School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science focuses on three key research areas. Foundational Research aims to advance core AI and Data Science technologies through interdisciplinary collaboration and publications. Application-Directed Research integrates AI into sectors like basic sciences, biological sciences, environmental sciences to tackle specific challenges. Locally Relevant Research applies AI and Data Science to uplift communities in Rajasthan by enhancing agriculture, exploiting solar energy, and preserving local art and culture.
About Our Research
Foundational Research: Breakthroughs in AI and Data Science are key to controlling and shaping the future technological landscape. Without continued progress in core AI and Data Science Technologies transformative potential of AI will not be realised. The school brings together faculty from diverse disciplines with shared interest in fundamental challenges in AI and Data Science to make significant contributions in next 5 years through publications in top ranking AI and Data Science conferences and journals.
Application Directed Research: AI is today being integrated with and deployed into a variety of sectors. There are numerous examples where AI is making an impact on the world and augmenting human capabilities in significant ways. Faculty members from diverse disciplines associated with the school work on AI and Data Science applications in basic sciences, biological sciences, environmental sciences, social sciences and different fields of engineering. School aims to make significant contributions in application fields by developing approaches aligned to the problem specific challenges.
Locally Relevant Research: Rajasthan, as a state, has several large scale applications of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence for uplifting the local communities. For example, how AIDE can help in agriculture in the arid region? How AIDE can help in exploiting solar energy? How AIDE can assist in research on ground water management? How AIDE. can help in providing clean drinking water? How AIDE can help in preserving and flourishing local art and culture? The AIDE School will undertake interdisciplinary research projects that will be locally connected and socially relevant.
Continue your explorations into complexity below!
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 28 Jan 2026 - 08:18 PM