Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
PG Course Booklet
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
M. Tech. And Dual Degree (M.Tech. and
Ph.D.) in Cyber Physical Systems
M.Tech.&M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree Programs in
Cyber Physical Systems
Beginning  in  the  first  decade  of  21st  century  and  continuing  today,  computational  and
communication resources, tightly integrated with physical systems, shaping the new capabilities for
the  modern  systems.  The  use  of  computational  resources  to  achieve  different  capabilities  is  in
existence  for  several  decades.  However,  many  modern  systems  have  high  degree  of  complexities
and  also  the  scale  of  these  systems  is  large  and/or  has  distributed  nature.  For  example  traffic
control system in a city requires modelling of traffic flows in different areas and optimizing different
performance  objectives  by  appropriately  taking  routing  decisions,  and  decisions  about  actuating
different signals for smooth traffic flow; this is a large scale distributed system. There are several
other  domains  where  CPS  examples  can  be  seen  e.g.  Healthcare,  Robotics,  Automotive,  Power
Grid,  Avionics  and  Transportation.  Such  system  necessitates  a  deeper  understanding  of  system
behaviour and also provides feedback to augment system design to achieve overall objectives from
the  system.  Emergence  of  ubiquitous  computing  and  communication  has  open  enormous
opportunities  to  provide  new  capabilities  to  systems  e.g.  robotics  assisted  remote  surgery.  Many
(small) systems can work in collaborative/cooperative manner to achieve a larger overall objective.
The  examples  can  be  seen  in  robotics  and  modern  warfare  where  collaboration/cooperation
achieves  larger  objectives.  The  communication  capability  also  provides  a  possibility  of  distributed
learning  for  systems.Hybrid  system  modelling  is  one  of  the  possible  approaches  to  model  CPS.
Hybrid  system  approach  allows  inclusion  of  both  continuous  time  and  discrete  time  states
(variables) in the model.
The  seamless  integration  of  cyber  system  with  physical  system  also  poses  several  challenges
towards  system  security  against  possible  system  attacks.  With  modelling  of  physical  system,  it  is
necessary  to  model  different  possible  attacks  and  to  provide  adequate  security  at  hardware  and
software to ensure overall system security in all scenarios. The cyber component includes hardware
and associated software. The design of cyber component also requires software level abstraction to
have  system  level  model  of  cyber  component.  This  also  allows  designing  a  very  high  reliability
system as the model allows a predictable behaviour. Conventionally software is developed without
formal  models  and  largely  depends  on  programmers‟  experience  and  knowledge;  however,
requirement  of  safety,  reliability  in  CPS  demand  higher  level  of  abstractions  at  software  level  as
well. This allows the system remains correct and secure by design.
Objective of the Programme
The  program  aims  to  produce  competent  engineerswho  can  design  engineered  systems  that  are
built  from  seamless  integration  of  physical  system  and  cyber  systems.  The  program  will  enable
engineers  with  required  competency  to  design  software-hardware  architecture.  The  program  also
imparts  knowledge  of  several  tools  for  modelling  physical  systems  and  tools  for  designing  cyber
components. The program will produce professionals who can design predictable and secure Cyber
Physical Systems (CPS).
Expected Graduate Attributes (M.Tech)
1.  Ability to understand modern approaches to Model CPS.
2.  Appreciation of cross disciplinary interaction of cyber and Physical systems.
3.  Capability to design cyber components to meet the overall specifications of a unified system.
4.  Adequate design knowledge to ensure system remains correct by design.
5.  Ability to use knowledge from machine learning, control theory to achieve overall objectives
of a given CPSs.
6.  High quality technical communication skills.
7.  Appreciation and adherence to norms of professional ethics.
8.  Ability to plan and manage technical projects.
1.  Ability  to  analyse  overall  specifications  of  CPS  and  translate  it  to  the  different  sub-
systems design requirements.
2.  Adequate  competency to model overall CPS using Hybrid system and  other approaches
and validate the model.
3.  Capability toco-design hardware-software architecture in distributed environment.
4.  Knowledge of Machine Learning algorithms and Distributed Control algorithms.
5.  Methods to embedded security in overall design of CPS.
6.  Ability to understand applications like smart grid, mobile networks and different systems
of smart city.
7.  Critical thinking and scientific problem solving.
8.  Skill to communicate scientific ideas and /or application systems.
9.  Acquire basic project management skills
Topics Cloud for the CPS program
  Modelling of CPS system from Hybrid system‟s perspectives
  Distributed computing; FoG and Cloud computing
  Embedded System design (Using programmable system-on-chip approach)
  Real time operating system
  Communication protocols
  Networked and distributed Control system
  Algorithms of Machine Learning
  Digital Signal Processing
Proposed Program’s Structure Overall Structure
Semester wise distribution of credits
MC  Introduction to Cyber
MC  Security in  CPS
MC  Cyber Physical System
MC  Data Communication and
Modelling  and Simulation
MC   Introduction to Modelling
(Fractal offered by Dept. Of
MC  Advanced Control System  3-0-
MC  Embedded System Design  3-0-
MC  Simulation of Dynamical
ME  Program Elective-3
ME  Program Elective-1
MC  Embedded System Design
ME  Program Elective-2
MO  Open Elective-1
NG  Technical Communication
NG  Innovation and IP
ME  Program Elective-4
MO Open Elective- 2
ME  Program Elective-5
NG  Professional Ethics
ME  Program Elective-6
NG  Systems  Engineering  and
List of Program Electives
Advanced Digital Signal Processing
Edge & Fog Computing
Robotics : Fractal 1 Robot Modelling
Robotics : Fractal 2 Control
Robotics : Fractal 3  Motion
Planning and Programming
Machine Learning I
Digital and Systems-on-Chips
Introduction to Virtual Reality
Adaptive Signal processing
Machine Leaning II
Artificial Intelligence I
Artificial Intelligence II
Resource Constrained AI
Real Time Communications
Industry 4.0 Applications in
The department may add new electives from time to time.
Introduction to Cyber Physical Systems
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems
Prerequisite  Differential Equations, Basics of Microprocessors
The Instructor will:
1. introduce modeling of CPS
2. introduce ability to analyze and simulate CPS systems
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. apply modeling and associated tools for Hybrid system
2. to analyze CPS by with holistic models of cyber and physical components.
Motivation  and  examples  of  CPS  e.g.  Energy,  Medical  and  Transportation  cyber  physical
systems; Key design drivers and quality attributes of CPS. Attributes of high confidence CPS; (8
Continuous  systemsmodeling; Discrete time  system  modeling; Finite state machine; Extended
state machines; Hybrid system modeling; Classes of Hybrid Systems. (17 Hours)
Analysis and Verification:
Basic  concepts  of  embedded  systems;  Embedded  Processors;  Input-outputs;  Invariants  and
Temporal  Logic;  Linear  Temporal  Logic;  Equivalence  and  Refinement;  Development  of  models
from specifications; Rechability analysis and Model Checking (17 Hours)
1.  R. Rajkumar, D. de. Niz and M. Klein, (2017), Cyber Physical Systems, Addision-Wesely.
2.  E.A.Lee and S A Shesia, (2018),Embedded system Design: A Cyber-Physical Approach,
Second Edition, MIT Press.
3.  A.Platzer, (2017),Logical Foundations of Cyber Physical Systems, Springer.
Basics of Differential equations and basics of Microprocessors from any standard textbook.
Embedded System Design
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems
Prerequisite  Basics of Microprocessors
The instructor will:
1.  introduce  concepts  of  different  architectures  and  programming  languages  of  embedded
2.  introduce design of embedded systems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  program  and  to  design  embedded  system  using  32-bit  embedded  processors  based  on
2.  use different IDE and debugging tools.
Review  of  Embedded  Computing;  embedded  system  design  process;  CPS  and  embedded
Computing (3 Hours)
Architecture  of  ARM  Cortex  M3  and  Cortex  A  series  processors;  Memory  system  mechanism;
Cache;  Memory  management  units  and  address  translation;  Performance  assessment  of
embedded processor; Introduction to Embedded Multicore Architecture
Programming of Embedded processors using assembly and C; models for program  --data flow
graphs;  Assembly  language  programming  of  ARM  Cortex  M3;  Hardware  software  co-design;
Processes and real time operating systems; Multi-rate system; real time scheduling algorithms
e.g. RMA,EDF and their variants; Energy efficient scheduling algorithms; Examples of design of
embedded systems.  (8 Hours)
1.  JoshephYiu, (2013), The definitive Guide to ARM Cortex M3 and M4 Processors, 3rd  Edition,
2.  Marilyn Wolf, (2014), High Performance embedded Computing: Applications in Cyber
Physical Systems and Mobile Computing, 2nd Edition, Elsevier.
Self Learning Material
1.  Prof. Santanu Chaudhary,Introduction to Embedded Computing, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Marilyn Wolf, Computers as Components: Principles of Embedded Computing System
Design, Third Edition, Elsevier 2012.
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech. Cyber Physical Systems
Prerequisite  Differential equations and Basics of Control system
The Instructor will:
1.  introduce Multi-Agent based Modeling control algorithms
2.  introduce robust controller for distributed systems
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  evaluate different controllers for a given distributed system.
2.  use different tools to design robust controllers
Review  of  state  space  analysis  and  feedback  control  design;  Problem  of  estimation  and
observer design; Cooperative control motivation and examples. (7 Hours)
Distributed  Control:  Sources  of  uncertainty  and  robust  control;  Concepts  of  Sliding  Mode
control  and  its  applications  to  Robust  control  design  for  distributed  systems;  Robust  observer
design. (14 Hours)
Design  behaviour  of  swarms  Consensus  problem  and  distributed  flocking  behaviour;  Stability
analysis of flocking motion; (8 Hours)
Event  Triggered  Control:  Introduction  to  event  based  sampling;  stability  with  event  based
sampling; event based multi agent systems; consensus with event triggered control (7 Hours)
Control of Cyber physical systems: Control of CPS with logic specifications, symbolic models for
nonlinear system and extension to large classes of systems. (6 Hours)
1.  Jeff Shamma, Cooperative Control of Distributed Multi-agent Systems, Wiley, 2008
2.  Edwards, Christopher, and Sarah Spurgeon, Sliding mode control: theory and applications,
CRC Press, 1998.
1.  Tabuada, Paulo. "Event-triggered real-time scheduling of stabilizing control
tasks." IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control 52.9 (2007): 1680-1685.
Basics of Control System from Norman Nice, 2007.
Simulation of Dynamical Systems
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  1–0–0 [1]
Offered for  M.Tech. Cyber Physical System
Prerequisite  Basics of ODE
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce different techniques to simulate different class of systems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Use different tools for simulating systems using right set of simulation parameters
Simulation  as  problem  solving  tool;  Basic  principles  of  numeric  integration;  Euler  integration;
difference equation simulation (3 hours)
Runge–Kutta  Algorithms;  stability  domains  of    Runge–Kutta  Algorithms;  extrapolation
technique; solver for Differential Algebraic Equations; (4 hours)
Random  variables;  probability  distribution;  poison  process;  Markov  process;  Markov  chain,
Bayesian statistics; simulated annealing; Monte-Carlo simulation (7 hours)
1.  François  E.  Cellier  and  Ernesto  Kofman  (2006),  Continuous  Systems  Simulation,
2.  Sheldon M. Ross (2013), Simulation, Academic Press, 5th Edition.
Cyber Physical System Modelling Laboratory
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
Offered for  M.TechCyber Physical System
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce techniques to model/simulate different Cyber Physical Systems
2. Introduce techniques to verify different CPS models
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Use different tools for Modelling/Simulation and verifications.
Modelling  experiments  in  continuous,  discrete  and  hybrid  system;  Verification  of  model  using
different  techniques;  Sensitivity  analysis  of  Models;  Sensitivity  analysis  of  Hybrid  Models;
Scheduling in embedded system
Embedded System Design Laboratory
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
Offered for  M.Tech.Cyber Physical System
Prerequisite  Basics of Processors
The Instructor will:
1. Design  experimentations  to  ensure  students  get  practical  exposure  for  embedded  system
2. Introduce  students  overall  design  process  of  embedded  systems  using  Integrated
Development Environment (IDE).
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  1. Use assembly and high level languages to program 32-bit processors
2. Design interfacing circuits for embedded processors
Programming Cortex M3 processors using assembly and C language; Interfacing the processors
with LCD, Seven Segment; DC Motor; Key board etc.; use of serial communication with
processors; Interfacing sensors through ADC
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech. Cyber Physical System
The Instructor will:
1. Concepts and topics that are relevant to smart grid technologies to facilitate exploring
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand  main  concepts  of  smart  grid  development  and  the  critical  technologies  that
underpin  such  development,  their  basic  principles,  physical  constraints,  and  technological
Smart Grid Basics: Evolution of Electric Power Grid and Smart Grid, Objectives, main features
and challenges of smart grid (5 Hours)
Energy  resources  :  centralized  vs.  distributed  generation;  renewable  energy:  solar,  wind,
hydropower,biomass,  geothermal,  ocean  wave;  benefit,  costs,  and  policies  of  renewable
energy; renewable sourcesintegration – overcoming intermittence; storage systems technology
Plug-in Electric Vehicle(PEV): history of EV; PEV challenges and potential solutions; EV and
electric power grid; PEV charging infrastructure, challenges and solutions; PEV as an energy
storage device and an energy source (V2G). (9 Hours)
Demand-side  management:  load  profile  of  the  power  grid;  market  pricing;  peak  shaving  and
valley filling; load forecasting; regulations and policies. (9 Hours)
Monitoring and Protection: wide-area monitoring system (WAMS), SCADA and PMU; advanced
metering infrastructure (AMI); smart metering; communication infrastructure and technologies
1. J. Duncan Glover, Mulukutla S. Sarma, and Thomas J. Overbye, (2008),Power System
Analysis and Design, 4th Ed.,Stamford, CT: Cengage Learning,.
2. Jan Machowski, JanuszBialek, and James R. Bumby, (2008),Power Systems Dynamics,
Stability and Control, 2nd Ed.New York, New York: John Wiley.
3. B. Droste-Franke, et al.,(2012), Balancing Renewable Electricity – energy storage, demand
side management, and network extension from an interdisciplinary perspective. Heidelberg,
4. T. Ackermann, Ed.,(2005),Wind Power in Power Systems. New York, New York: Wiley.
Security in Cyber Physical Systems
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  2–0–0 [2]
Offered for  M.Tech. Cyber Physical System
Prerequisite  Basics of Control system is desirable
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce mathematical framework for Cyber Physical System attacks
2. Introduce centralized and decentralized techniques of attack detection
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Analyze the system for possible security vulnerability.
2. Design attack resilient system.
Review of  graph theory based models; some examples from infrastructure system modelling;
Descriptor system; Unified modelling of CPS attack; case of undetectable attacks; (7 Hours)
Graph  theoretic  characterization  of  attacks  and  its  limitations;  Centralized  and  distributed
monitors; examples from power system, water distribution networks etc. (7 Hours)
Security  issues  of  Industrial  Control  Systems;  Integrity  attacks  on  SCADA  systems;  Model
based  technique  to  detect  integrity  attacks  on  sensors;  threat  model  and  its  effect  on  control
scheme; countermeasure for detecting such attacks; watermarking scheme;  (7 Hours)
Design  of  observers  under  sensor  and  actuator  attacks;  design  of  observer  for  distributed
environment  under  different  attacks;  applications  of  swarms  of  UAVs;  Control  design  with
denial service attack; case studies (6 Hours)
1. F. Pasqualetti, F. Dörfler and F. Bullo, "Attack Detection and Identification in Cyber-Physical
Systems," in IEEE Transactions  on Automatic  Control, vol. 58, no. 11, pp. 2715-2729, Nov.
2. H.  Fawzi,  P.  Tabuada  and  S.  Diggavi,  "Secure  Estimation  and  Control  for  Cyber-Physical
Systems Under Adversarial Attacks," in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 59, no.
6, pp. 1454-1467, June 2014.
3. Yilin  Mo,  Rohan  Chabukswar  and  Bruno  Sinopoli“Detecting  Integrity  Attacks  on  SCADA
Systems” in IEEE Transactions on Control System Technology, Vol. 22, No. 4, 2014
4. F.  Pasqualetti,  F.  Dörfler  and  F.  Bullo  “Control  Theoretic  methods  for  Cyber  Physical
Security”, in IEEE Control System Magazine, pp. 110-127, Feb. 2015
Basics of Control System from Norman Nice, 2007.
M. Tech. in Sensors and Internet of Things
Program Structure for first four semesters
Last  few  decades  had  seen  extensive  growth  in  the  electronic  systems  to  make  the  life  of
humans  smoother  and  easier  with  time.  With  enormous  features  available  in  various  systems,  a
new era of engineering, Internet of Things (IoT), has gained interest. IoT is a network of connected
things  and  people,  which  collects  and  communicates  data  from  environment  around  them.  To  be
able to do so, Sensors are the key components to communicate with surroundings. Applications of
Sensors  and  Internet  of  Things (SIoT)  include  smart  agriculture,  transportation,  environment
monitoring, healthcare, and smart wearable. The M.Tech. Program in sIoT is especially designed for
young innovators to provide them a breadth as well as depth for designing systems for the current
era of sIoT. M.Tech.+Ph.D. Dual Degree program will have same course work as M.Tech. sIoT for
first  two  years.  However,  Dual  Degree  program  is  specially  designed  to  encourage  talented  and
motivated B.Tech./M.Sc. students to undertake direct Ph.D. study in the area of sIoT.
To produce skilled graduates with exposure to current era of SIoT and deeper understanding
of  the  subject  components.  The  graduates  will  eventually  be  contributing  to  variety  of  domains
including  smart  agriculture,  transportation,  environment  monitoring,  healthcare,  and  smart
The  objective  is  to  develop  broad  IoT  systems  and  this  program  will be  offered  with  four  Primary
  Sensors and Sensing Technologies
  Circuits and Systems
  Communication and Networking
  Embedded systems
The  program  will  offer  deeper  theoretical  learning  through  various  verticals  by  theory  and
laboratory courses. Hands on experiments and projects will be offered to enhance the learning. For
Dual Degree Ph.D., ~2 additional years will be dedicated towards research contributions.
  Ability  to  follow  multidisciplinary  approach  for  design  and  implementation  of  systems,
involving various domains of Engineering, Sciences, and Humanities.
  Skills to design and develop various sensors and related interfacing circuitry for IoT
  Ability to develop design, simulation, and implementation schemes based on the knowledge
acquired from coursework.
  Skills to implement IoT sensor platforms for applications in the area of environment, health,
agriculture, and other novel applications.
  Skills to undertake high quality academic and industrial research in Sensors and IoT
  Strong understanding of fundamentals of Sensing and Sensor Devices
  Ability of designing Digital and Analog interface circuits used for SIoT
  Capability of interfacing Sensors for IoT applications
  Development and use of emerging Sensors for IoT Technology
  Understanding of fundamentals of wireless communications to design Sensor Nodes
  Understanding of uses and risks related to IoT devices
Implementation of IoT platforms using embedded systems
M.  Tech  Elective
M.  Tech  Open
Semester wise distribution of credits
MC  Sensors and
MC  Data communication and
MC  Microsystems Fabrication
MC  Digital and Systems-on-
MC  Analog and Interfacing
MC  VLSI Design Lab
MC  Introduction to Internet
ME  Program Elective-2
MC  Sensors and IoT Lab
ME  Program Elective-3
ME  Program Elective-1
ME  Program Elective-4
NG  Technical Communication
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
MC  Winter Internship
ME  Program Elective-5
MO Open Elective-2
ME  Program Elective-6
NG  Professional Ethics
MO  Open Elective-1
NG  Systems  Engineering  and
Total (Graded+ Non-graded) 14
Total (Graded+ Non-graded)l  15
Winter Internship is designed for hands-on-exposure in micro-fabrication
technology for sensors and actuators
List of Program Electives
Flexible and Printed Electronics 3-0-0 3
Advanced Digital Signal
Digital VLSI  Design
Neuromorphic Computing and
Fog and Edge Computing
Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks
Machine Learning 1
Selected Topics in Sensors &
Image Sensor Design and
Resource Constrained AI
RF IC Design
Embedded Systems Design
Selected Topics in Sensors &
Active Filter Design
Selected Topics in Sensors &
Open electives: These can be taken from the existing program electives or any other course of
same level from the institute
Sensors and Measurements
M. Tech. 1st year
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the students to sensors, as transducers from physical parameters to signals
2.  Explain the sensing principles for displacement, force, pressure, acceleration,
temperature, optical radiation, nuclear radiation
3.  Explain the sensor range, sensitivity, accuracy, repeatability, noise
Students are expected to have the ability to
1.  Understand fundamental principles of sensing technology,
2.  Design various sensors and implementation
3.  Understand Nondestructive characterization methods
EEL7XX1: Sensor characteristics [1-0-0]
(Fractal  1)Definitions,  terminology,  classification,  Static  vs  dynamic  properties  of  transducers,
Transfer  functions,  Ideal  and  realistic  transducer  models,  Resolution,  linearization,  dynamic
range,  detection  threshold,  Selectivity  &  sensitivity,  Calibration,  Errors  of  the  experimental
measurements, Noise: electronics, environmental & internal (14 lectures)
EEL7XX2: Physical Principle of Sensing [1-0-0]
(Fractal 2)Capacitance, Magnetism, Induction, Resistance, Piezoelectric effect, Pyroelectric effect,
Hall effect, Thermoelectric effect,  Temperature  and thermal properties  of materials and heat
transfer, Optics, Fiber optics and waveguides (14 lectures)
EEL7XX3: Sensor Interface and Applications [1-0-0]
(Fractal  3)Input  characteristics  of  interface  circuits,  Amplifiers,  Light  to  voltage  converters,
Capacitance  to  voltage  converters,  Bridge  Circuits,  Excitation  circuits.  Case  Studies:Inertial
Sensors  (Accelerometer  &  gyroscope),  Healthcare  Sensors  (Glucometer,  ECG  &  MRI),  Smart
building Sensors (Smoke & occupancy sensors) (14 lectures)
1.  Jacob Fraden, (2010), Handbook of Modern Sensors, 5th Edition, Springer.
2.  J. W. Gardner, (1996), Microsensors, Principles and Applications, 1st Edition, Wiley.
3.  S. M. Sze, (1994), Semiconductor Sensors, 1st Edition, Wiley.
Analog and Interfacing
M. Tech. 1st year
Pre-requisite  Digital and Analog Electronics
The Instructor will:
1.  Familiarize  students  with  the  concepts  of  Analog  IC  Design  and  give  them  a
comprehensive overview of various amplifiers.
2.  Familiarize  the  students  with  different  building blocks  of  a  mixed  signal interface  circuit
design essential for sensors and IoT.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  fundamental  principles  of  CMOS  Analog  IC  Design  and interfacing  of  analog
signals with the digital signal processing circuits.
2.  Apply the circuit design fundamentals for IoT applications.
3.  Work on design tools like Cadence/Mentor Graphics
EEL7XX1: Fundamentals of Analog Circuits and Design [1-0-0]
(Fractal 1)Introduction toAnalog VLSI and design issues in CMOS technologies, MOS models,
SPICE  Models,  Single  stage  amplifiers,  Biasing  circuits,  Voltage  and  Current  reference
circuits,  Feedback  analysis,  Multistage  amplifiers,  Mismatch  and  noise  analysis,  Differential
amplifiers, Oscillators (14 Lectures)
EEL7XX2: Readout Electronics [1-0-0]
(Fractal 2)Switch capacitor circuits: Principles and applications in filter design; switches and
related design issues, variable gain amplifier, low noise and high speed amplifier topologies.
Analog  to  digital  converters:Types  of  ADCs,  static  and  dynamic  characteristics;  track  and
hold,  and  sample  and  hold  circuits;  comparators;  detail  design  analysis  for  successive
approximation register (SAR) ADCs, discrete-time and continuous time sigma-delta ADCs(14
EEL7XX3: Digital to Analog Converters Design [1-0-0]
(Fractal  3)Digital  to  Analog  Converters:Voltage-based  DACs;  charge-based  DACs;  current-
based  DACs  –  binary  and  thermometer  currents.  Phase-locked  loop:  Basics;  PLL  dynamics;
voltage  controlled  oscillator,  frequency  synthesis.  Applications:  Wearable  Biomedical  IoT
nodes (14 Lectures)
1.  Razavi,  B.,  (2016),Design  of  Analog  CMOS  Integrated  Circuits,  2nd  Edition,  McGraw-Hill
2.  R.  Jacob  Baker,  H.W.Li,  and  D.E.  Boyce,  (2009),  –  CMOS  Circuit  Design  ,Layout  and
Simulation, 2nd Edition, Prentice-Hall of India
3.  David A. Johns, Ken Martin, (2013), “Analog Integrated Circuit Design”, 2nd Edition, John
Wiley and Sons.
Self Learning material
1.  Shanthi  Pavan,  VLSI  Data  Conversion  Circuits,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
2.  Nagendra  Krishnapura,  Analog  Integrated  Circuit  Design,  Department  of  Electrical
Preparatory Course Material
1.  P.  E.  Allen,  D.  R.  Holberg  (2013),  CMOS  Analog  Circuit  Design,  3rd  Edition,  Oxford
2.  R.  Gregorian,  G.  C.  Temes,  (2008),  “Analog  MOS  Integrated  Circuits  for  Signal
Processing”, John Wiley and Sons.
M. Tech. 1st year
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce to the students the essentials of micro-electronics fabrication technology required for
the realization of integrated circuits and transducers & actuators.
2.  Introduce  the  basic  concepts  of  MEMS  design,  fabrication  process  integration  and  advanced
micro-machining techniques for high aspect ratio MEMS structures.
Students will have the capability to :
1.  Understand the unit fabrication processes for ICs and MEMS
2.  Design and fabricate MEMS based sensors and actuators
Unit  processes  in  fabrication  of  ICs  and  MEMS:  Clean  room  practices,  Crystal  growth  techniques,
wafer  preparation  and  shaping,  chemical  cleaning,  thermal  oxidation,  diffusion,  ion  implantation,
photolithography, Thin film deposition, Etching (18 lectures)
Unit  processes  specific  to  MEMS:  Surface  and  bulk  micro-machining,  DRIE,  LIGA,  and  packaging
Case  studies  of  MEMS:  Basic  concepts  of  Beam/diaphragm  mechanics,  electrostatic  actuation  and
fabrication, „process design‟ for selected MEMS based sensors and actuators such as Comb drives,
touch sensor, pressure sensor, RF MEMS Switches, Electric / Magnetic Field sensor etc.
(12 lectures )
1.  Tai-Ran Hsu, (2017),  MEMS & Microsystems Design and Manufacture,  Indian Edition, Tata
2.  M. Bao, (2005), Analysis and Design Principles of MEMS Devices, 1st Edition, Elsevier
3.  J. D. Plummer, M. D. Deal, and P. B. Griffin (2009), Silicon VLSI technology: Fundamentals,
practice, and modelling, 1st Edition, Prentice Hall
Self learning material
1.  Marc J. Madou, (2011), Fundamentals of Microfabrication and Nanotechnology: The Science
of Miniaturization, 3rd Edition, CRC Press.
2.  M. Sze, (2003),VLSI Technology, 2nd edition McGraw Hill Education.
Preparatory course material
1.  Sensors and Actuators (Elsevier)
2.  J. Micromechanics and Micro engineering  (IOP)
Introduction to Internet of Things
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech. 1st year
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  1–0–0 [1]
1.  Provide overview of applications of IoT and relevant technologies
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Identify and integrate different components required for IoT applications
Introduction to IoT: Sensing, Actuation, Basics of IoT Networking (2 Lectures)
IoT Architecture, Communication Protocols for IoT (2 Lectures)
Sensor Networks: Wireless Sensor Network, Sensor nodes (2 Lectures)
Machine  to  machine  Communication:  Introduction,  Node  types  and  M2M  Applications,
Integration of Sensors and Actuators for Implementation of IoT (4 Lectures)
Introduction to Cloud, Fog, and Edge Computing, Smart cities and Smart homes, Industrial IoT
1.  Kamal,  R.,  (2017),  Internet  of  Things  -  Architecture  and  Design  Principles,  1st  Edition,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Misra,  S.,  Introduction  to  Internet  of  Things,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Institute  of  Technology  Kharagpur,
Computer  Science  and  Engineering,
Data Communication and Networking
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M. Tech. 1st year
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Wireless Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose the students to distinguishing features of wireless networks
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design and optimize wireless network architectures.
2.  Implement security techniques for wireless networks.
Fundamentals:  Layered  architecture  overview,  data  communication  techniques,
motivations  for  cross-layer  protocol  design,  motivations  for  performance  analysis,
forward error correction and re-transmission performances (7 Lectures)
Network  layer  and  topology  design:  Markov  and  semi-Markov  processes,  Little‟s
theorem,  M/M/m/k,  M/G/1  systems,  priority  queueing,  network  of  queues,  network
traffic  behavior,  routing  algorithms  and  analysis,  distributed  networks,  design
constraints, bounded latency networks, optimization, cognitive networks (10 Lectures)
Network  Management:Power  management,  time  synchronization,  localization,  energy-
efficient protocols for sensor networks (7 Lectures)
Mechanisms  to  improve  performance:  Self-Organizing  Network,  Software-Defined
Networking (7 Lectures)
Transport and Application Layers: congestion control and quality of service, scheduling,
multimedia, key aspects and design issues (7 Lectures)
Reliability  and security:  Security  requirement  and  attacks,  Encryption  techniques,
reliable and secure communication protocols (4 Lectures)
ofWireless Sensor Networks: Theory and Practice, Wiley
2.  Stallings, W., (2007), Data and Computer Communications, 8th Edition, Pearson
3.  Bertsekas,  D.  P.  and  Gallager,  R.  G.,  (1992),  Data  Networks,  2nd  Edition,  Prentice
1.  Mishra,  S.,  Wireless  Adhoc  and  Sensors  Networks,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Department  of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Communication  Engineering,  Indian
Institute of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105160/
2.  Zou, Y., Zhu, J., Wang, X., and Hanzo, L., "A Survey on Wireless Security: Technical
Challenges,  Recent  Advances,  and  Future  Trends,"  in  Proceedings  of  the  IEEE,  vol.
104, no. 9, pp. 1727-1765, Sept. 2016.
3.  W.  Xia,  Y.  Wen,  C.  H.  Foh,  D.  Niyato  and  H.  Xie,  "A  Survey  on  Software-Defined
Networking," in IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 27-51,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Zheng,  L.,  Principles  of  Wireless  Communications,  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  Electrical
Institute  of  Technology,
Engineering  &  Computer  Science,  Massachusetts
Course Title  Digital and Systems-on-Chip
M. Tech. 1st year
Pre-requisite  Digital Logic and Design
The Instructor will:
1.  Make  the  students  analyze  the  functional  and  nonfunctional  performance  of  the
system early in the design process to support design decisions.
2.  Make  the  students  appreciate  issues  in  system-on-a-chip  design  associated  with  co-
design, such as intellectual property, reuse, and verification.
3.  Explain the hardware, software, and interface synthesis.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Analyze  hardware/software  tradeoffs,  algorithms,  and  architectures  to  optimize  the
system based on requirements and implementation constraints.
2.  Understand issues in interface design.
3.  Use co-simulation to validate system functionality.
Digital Design using Verilog and VHDL: Introduction to ASIC design, combinational and
sequential circuit design process, Finite state machines, Modelling styles, RTL models,
Memory models. Programmable logic devices and FPGAs: PALs, PLDs, FPGA programming
concepts and techniques, design synthesis using FPGA kits (14 lectures)
System-level  and  SoC  design  methodologies  and  tools;  HW/SW  co-design:  analysis,
partitioning,  real-time  scheduling,  hardware  acceleration;  Virtual  platform  models,  co-
simulation and FPGAs for prototyping of HW/SW systems; Transaction-Level Modeling (TLM),
Electronic  System-Level  (ESL)  languages:  SystemC;  High-Level  Synthesis  (HLS):  allocation,
scheduling,  binding,  resource  sharing,  pipelining;  SoC  and  IP  integration,  verification  and
test. ARM-based System-on-Chip Design. (28 lectures)
1.  Unsalan, C., Tar, B., (2017), Digital System Design with FPGA Implementation Using
Verilog and VHDL, McGraw-Hill
2.  D. Black, J. Donovan, (2010),SystemC: From the Ground Up, 2nd Edition, Springer.
3.  D.  Gajski,  S.  Abdi,  A.  Gerstlauer,  G.  Schirner,  (2009),  Embedded  System  Design:
Modeling, Synthesis, Verification, Springer
Preparatory Course material
1.  Nelson,  V.P.,  Carroll,  B.D.,  Nagle,  H.T.,  Irwin,  J.D.,  (2020),  Digital  Logic  Circuit
Analysis and Design, 2nd Edition, Pearson
2.  G. De Micheli, (2017), Synthesis and Optimization of Digital Circuits, McGraw-Hill.
Flexible and Printed Electronics
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV, M.Tech., Ph.D
Prerequisite  Understanding  of  Electronic  Materials  and
The Instructor will:
1.  Explainfundamentalsof  thin-film  electronic  materials  and  devices  for  flexible
2.    Teach  the  concepts  for  heterogeneous  integration  of  thin-film  devices  on  flexible
The students are expected to have the ability to:
the  advantages,  drawbacks,  performances,  complementarity  and
uniqueness of large area manufacturing vs. silicon technology
2.  Integrate the operation principles, architectures and processing of main devices and
systems fabricated for flexible electronics
3.  Predict  systems  integration  issues  and  propose  methods  for  integration  and
encapsulation of printed devices and systems
Introduction to Flexible and Printed Electronics: Evolution of Flexible Electronics, review
of  cutting  edge  research  on  electronics  that  can  be  flexible,  plastic,  stretchable,
conformable or printed. Electronic materials, components and systems, applications for
IoT (2 Lectures)
Materials,  Processing,  and  Manufacturing:  Various  semiconductors,  dielectric,  and
conducting  materials,  Organic  semiconductors,  from  chemical  bonds  to  bands,  Charge
injection and transport, Examples of printable functional materials , Thin-film Deposition
and Processing Methods for Flexible Devices, Solution-based Patterning Processes; Ink-
jet printing, gravure and other processes, surface energy effects, multilayer patterning
FlexibleThin-Film  Transistors  and  Circuits:  Thin-Film  Transistor;  Device  structure  and
performance,  Electrical  characteristics,  parameter  extraction,  characterization  methods
for  rigid  and  flexible  devices,  electrical  stability,  printed  transistors;  organic/polymer,
metal-oxide, electrolyte gated, Case studies; submicrometer OTFTs and gravure printed
OTFTs,  From  transistors  to  circuits,  circuits  on  flexible  and  non-  silicon  substrates,
Contacts and Interfaces to Organic and Inorganic Electronic Devices: Schottky contacts,
defects, carrier recombination, effect of applied mechanical strain(14 Lectures)
Other Flexible Devices and System Integration: Organic Light Emitting Diodes, Organic
Solar Cells, thin flexible OLED displays, OLED lighting, smart wallpaper, sensors, logic,
and  memory,  RFID  tags,  Latest  applications  of  printed  electronics,  Encapsulation,  Roll
to roll printing processes, Integration Issues, and Designs for Future (14 Lectures)
1.  G.  Nisato,  D.  Lupo,  S.  Ganz  (Editors)  (2016),  Organic  and  Printed  Electronics:
Fundamentals and Applications, CRC Press
2.  Large  Area  and  Flexible  Electronics,  Mario  Caironi  &  Yong-Young  Noh  (Editors
3.  Wong,  William  S.,  and  Alberto  Salleo,  (Eds.)  (2009)  Flexible  electronics:  materials
and applications. Vol. 11. Springer
Self Learning Material
1.  Recent  Journal  Papers  form  Flexible  and  Printed  Electronics,  IOP,  and  Organic
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Electromagnetic Theory, Microwave Engineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the various concept of antenna design.
2. familiarize the students with the application of different type of antennas
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design low profile antennas and high gain antenna arrays for practical applications
2.  Utilize simulation software e.g. HFSS, CST etc. for designing Antenna systems and test RF
and microwave antennas
Introduction  to  Antennas:  Radiation  mechanism,  Current  distribution  on  a  thin  wire  antenna,
Review  of  Antenna  Parameters;  Friis  Transmission  formulae,  Radar  Range  equation  (7
Radiation Integrals and Auxiliary Potential Function Vector potential for electric current source
and magnetic current source, inhomogeneous vector potential wave equation, duality theorem,
reciprocity theorem (3 Lectures)
Design of Dipole Antenna Design of Infinitesimal dipole, small dipole, half-wavelength dipole (4
Microstrip  antenna  Rectangular  patch  antenna,  feeding  methods,  transmission  line  model,
cavity model, Circular Patch Antenna  (4 Lectures)
Low-profile Antenna Application: Mobile handset antenna- helical wire and variants; electrically
small  antenna;  power  factor,  quality  factor  and  bandwidth;  radiation  efficiency  and  realized
gain;    PIFA;;  On-chip  antenna;    SAR  measurement  and  miniaturization;  GPS  and  Bluetooth
antenna;  medical  application-  antennas  for  medical  imaging;  heating;  sensing;  Automobile
antennas- MAST antenna; Window glass antenna; Panel Antenna; (10 Lectures)
Design of Antenna Arrays Analysis of Two element array, N-element linear array (uniform and
nonuniform  amplitude  excitation:  Binomial,  Dolph-Tschebyscheff,  Taylor  distribution),  planar
array, Phased Array  (5 Lectures)
Aperture  Antenna  Field  equivalence  principle,  Radiation  equation,  Rectangular  aperture,
circular  aperture,  Babinet‟s  principle,  Sectoral  horn  antenna,  Pyramidal  Horn  antenna    (6
Antenna  Measurement  Antenna  Ranges,  Radiation  Pattern  measurement,  Gain  measurement
(absolute gain method, gain comparison method), Directivity measurement  (3 Lectures)
1.  Balanis  C. A., Antenna Theory,  Analysis and Design, 4th edition, Wiley Press, 2016
2.  Krauss    J.  D.,  Antennas  and  Wave  Propagation,  4th  edition,  Tata  McGraw-Hill  Education,
3.  Elliott  R. S., Antenna Theory and Design, Wiley Press, 2006
Self Learning Material
1.   Vedio  Lecture:  Antenna  Engineering,  Dr.  Anthony  Ferraro,  Penn  State  Univ.,  USA,
Preparatory Course Material
1. NPTEL Lectures: Microwave Theory and Techniques, (Dr. Girish Kumar, IIT Bombay)
Digital VLSI Design
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV, M.Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Digital Electronics, Knowledge of MOS device physics
The Instructor will:
Introduce the basics of digital circuit design methods.
•  Explain the necessary concepts for digital VLSI design according to design rules decided
by various technologies.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
  Design  and  optimize  digital  circuits  with  different  quality  metrics:  cost,  speed,  power
dissipation, and reliability.
  Learn about the major building blocks of digital systems
Introduction:Review of VLSI, Historical Perspective, Issues in Digital IC design, Quality
metrics. (2 Lectures)
•  Manufacturing:  CMOS  technology,  Layout  design  &  design  rules,  IC  Packaging,  future
trends in process technology. (2 Lectures)
•  Devices  and  Interconnects:  MOS  devices,  MOS  transistor  models,  Technology  Scaling,
Effect of Process variations, Interconnect and wire models. (4 Lectures)
•  CMOS Circuits: CMOS Inverter, Static and Dynamic Behaviour, Propagation delay, noise
margins,  and  power  dissipation,  Impact  of  technology  scaling,  logical  efforts.  (7
•  Designing combinational logic gates: Static CMOS design, Ratioed Logic, Pseudo NMOS,
Pass Transistors Logic, Dynamic CMOS design, speed and power dissipation, choosing a
logic style (7 lectures).
•  Design  of  sequential  logic  circuits:  Static  Latches  and  Registers,  Dynamic  Latches  and
Registers, Alternative Register styles, pipelining, choosing a clock strategy. (3 Lectures)
in  Digital  Circuits:Timing  classification,  Synchronous  Design,
Synchronous timing basics, Skew and Jitter, clock distribution techniques (5 Lectures).
•  Designing  Arithmetic  Blocks:  Data  paths  in  Digital  Processor  Architecture,  Adder,
Multiplier, Shifter, power and speed tradeoff. (3 Lectures).
•  Designing  Memories  and  Array  Structures:Memory  Classification,  Memory  Architecture
and  Building  Blocks,  Memory  core,  Read  only  Memory,  Read-write  Memories,  Memory
peripheral  circuitry,  Decoders,  Sense  Amplifiers,  Buffers,  reliability,  power  dissipation,
future trends validation and test (7 Lectures).
Implementation  strategies  for  digital  ICs,  Design  Verification,  Validation  and  Test,
Introduction to HDL.(2 Lectures)
1.  Jan M. Rabaey, Anantha Chandrakasan, and Borivoje Nikolic, (2016), Digital integrated
Circuits, A design perspective, 2nd Edition, 2nd Edition, Pearson.
2.  Neil H.E. Weste, David Money Harris, (2010), CMOS VLSI Design: A Circuits and
Systems Perspective, 4th Edition, Pearson.
3.  Sung-Mo-Kang, Yusuf Leblebici, (2016), CMOS Digital Integrated Circuits Analysis &
Design, 4th Edition, Mc-Graw Hill.
Self Learning Material
Jan  M.  Rabaey,  Anantha  Chandrakasan,  and  Borivoje  Nikolic,  online  Video
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV, M.Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  students  an  understanding  of  the  concepts  related  to  communication  overwireless
2.    Expose  students  to  concepts  and  techniques  for  exploiting  fading  and  applicationof  these
concepts in multiuser communication systems context.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  concepts  related  to  deep  fade,  diversity  techniques  and  channelcapacity  for
point-to-point wireless communications systems.
2.  Analyze  multi-user  networks  and  understanding  of
communication,  multiuser  diversity,  superposition  coding  and  successiveinterference
3.    Analyze  and  design  wireless  ad-hoc  networks  with  special  emphasis  on  energyconstrained
Wireless  Channels:  Modelling  of  wireless  channels;  space,
channelcoherence;  input/output  channel  models  for  single  and  multi-antenna  systems  (7
Diversity:  Digital  modulation  and  its  performance  in  fading;  inter-symbol  interference;
realizingdiversity:  time  diversity,  frequency  diversity,  antenna  diversity;  code  design  for
wirelesschannels (14 lectures)
Wireless Channel Capacity: Capacity of the Gaussian channels; capacity of fading channels (7
Multiuser  system  design:  Multiple  access  and  random  access  techniques;  multiuser  channel
capacity (7 lectures)
Ad  hoc  wireless  network:  design  principles,  protocol  layers,  network  capacity  limits,
andenergy-constrained networks. (7 lectures)
1.  Tse,  D.  and  Viswanath,  P.,  (2005),  Fundamentals  of  wireless  communication,  Cambridge
2.  Goldsmith, A., (2005), Wireless Communications, Cambridge University Press.
3.  Simon, M. K. and Alouini, M. S., (2004), Digital communication over fading channels, John
Wiley and Sons.
1.  Zheng,  L.,  Principles  of  Wireless  Communications,  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  Electrical
Engineering  &  Computer
1. Jagannatham, A. K., Principles of Communication II, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
2.  Zheng,  L.  and  Gallager,  R.,  Principles  of  Digital  Communications  I,  MIT  OpenCourseWare,
Electrical  Engineering  &  Computer  Science,  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology,
Image Sensor Design and Applications
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech. IV, M. Tech, Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Analog electronics
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the design and analysis of CMOS image sensors.
2.  Explain the readout electronics behind the camera.
3.    Provide  the  knowledge  of  performance  measures  and  tradeoffs  involved  in  the
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design and develop CMOS image sensor including the sensing mechanism and signal
chain of the camera.
2.  Implement different techniques required for high dynamic range camera, high frame
rate, low noise camera, time of flight 3D cameras etc.
Introduction  to  photodetectors:Photodiode  and  photogate,  photocurrent,  dark  current,
quantum efficiency, spectral response and photo-conversion principles (5 Lectures).
Introduction  to  Charge  coupled  devices  and  CMOS  image  sensors:  Operation,
performance  metrics,  noise  and  its  types,  spatial  resolution  and  modulation  transfer
function.  Concept of exposure triangle including aperture, shutter speed and ISO, color
filters,  Bayer  pattern,  Shutters  and  its  types,  motion  blur,  hard  and  soft  reset,
Introduction to imaging optics (8 Lectures).
Readout  electronics  and  image  sensor  characterization:Readout  and  its  types,  design
tradeoffs  and  challenges,  analysis  of  the  signal  path  behind  the  camera,  variable  gain
amplifiers,  double  sampling  circuits,    ADCs,  reference  circuits  including  BGR  and  LDO,
clock  generation  circuits  including  PLL  and  delay  elements,  floor  planning,  placement
and  routing,  image  sensor  characterization.  Introduction  to  wire  bonding,  packaging,
lens and color filters for product level design (15 Lectures).
Emerging  trends:High  speed  cameras,  high  dynamic  range  cameras,  3D  cameras  for
background  light  subtraction  and  depth  estimation.  Concepts  of  Polarization  imaging,
low  light  imaging,  machine  vision,  backside  illumination,  stacked  technology,  target
tracking (10 Lectures).
Color Processing: Color demosaicing, color correction and white balance (2 Lectures).
Applications:Smart  city,  health  care,  autonomous  vehicles,  sports,  motion  detection,
surveillance (2 Lectures).
1.  Jun Ohta, (2007), Smart CMOS Image sensors and Applications, CRC press.
Self Learning Material
1.  O. Yadid Pecht and R. E. Cummings (2004), CMOS imagers: From Photo
transduction to Image processing, Springer.
2.  Image sensors blog http://image-sensors-world.blogspot.com/
Preparatory Course Material
1.  El  Gamal,  Abbas,  and  Helmy  Eltoukhy  (2005)  "CMOS  image  sensors." IEEE  Circuits
and Devices Magazine vol. 21, no. 3, pages 6-20.
2.  Fossum,  Eric  R.  (1997)  "CMOS  image  sensors:  Electronic  camera-on-a-chip." IEEE
transactions on electron devices vol. 44. no. 10, pages 1689-1698.
Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit Design  Number
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV Year), M.Tech, and PhD Students
engineering, Microwave engineering.
1.  To introduce the students with the integrated circuit designing at radio frequencies.
2.  Introduction of various circuits and building blocks for communication applications.
1.  Understanding the design of integrated circuits at high frequencies.
2.  Practical implementation of various circuits required to build a transceiver system.
3.  Learning  about  the  design  of  various  active  components  like  mixers,  LNAs,  power
amplifiers at RF and microwave frequencies.
Communication  System  Overview:  Modulation,  Mobile  Systems,  Multiple  Access
Techniques, Wireless Standards. (3 lectures)
Noise:    Noise  spectrum,  effect  of  transfer  function  on  noise,  noise  in  a  circuit,  device
noise. (4 lectures)
Transceiver  Architectures:  Heterodyne  Receivers,  Direct-Conversion  Receivers,
Image Reject and Low IF Receivers, Transmitter Architectures. (4 lectures)
Concepts  of  RF  Design:  Wave  Guides  and  Transmission  Lines,  coupled  lines,  S-
Parameters,  Smith  Chart,  single  and  double  stub  impedance  matching,  Two-port  gain
and stability analysis. (10 lectures)
Amplifier  Design:  Concepts  of  nonlinearity,  time  variance  and  IIP3,  model  of  MOS
transistors  and  BJT  at  high  frequencies,  wideband  amplifiers,  constant  gain  amplifier,
constant noise figure amplifier, power amplifiers, combining networks. (8 lectures)
Oscillators and Voltage Controlled Oscillators: Basic topologies VCO and definition
of  phase  noise.  Noise-power  trade-off,  quadrature  and  single-sideband  generators.  (5
Mixers:  Mixer  Noise  figure,  port  to  port  feed-through,  single-balanced  and  double
balanced mixers. (4 lectures)
Introduction  to  Phase-Locked  Loops:  Type  I  and  Type  II  PLL‟s,  PLL  Non-idealities.
1.  T. H. Lee, the Design of CMOS Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuits. Cambridge, UK:
Cambridge University Press, 1997.
2.  B. Razavi, RF Microelectronics, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education, 2014.
3.  G.  Gonzalez,  Microwave  Transistor  Amplifiers:  Analysis  and  Design,  2nd  edition,
Self Learning Materials
2.  High  Speed  Communication  Circuits,  MIT,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-
Preparatory Course Materials
1.  B.  P.  Lathi,  Z.  Ding,  Modern  Digital  and  Analog  Communications  Systems,  4th
edition, Oxford university press, July-2017.
2.  D. M. Pozar, Microwave Engineering, 4th edition, New York, NY, USA: Wiley, 2011.
VLSI Design Lab
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
Offered for  M. Tech. 1st year
1.  To introduce students with the designing of combinational and sequential circuits.
2.  To  familiarize  students  with  the  designing  of  various  building  blocks  related  to
3.  To  familiarize  students  with  the  process  design  kits  and  tools  like  Cadence/Mentor
4.  To aware the students with pre-layout and post-layout simulations.
1.  Students  will  be  able  to  understand  the  design  issues  and  challenges  involved  in
2.  Knowledge of design tools like Cadence and process design kits.
3.  Students  will  be  able  to  perform  different  analysis  (DC,  AC,  transient  etc.)  and
design steps involved in tape-out.
•  Experiments related to digital design
  Design of static logic gates with passive and active load, plot voltage
transfer characteristics and calculate noise margin.
  Design and layout of switches including pass transistor and transmission
  Combinational circuit design with placement and routing considerations.
  Implementation of different functions with dynamic and domino logic
  Sequential logic design, clock issues and timing constraints.
•  Experiments related to analog design
  Design of common source, common gate and common drain amplifier for
  Design problems related to wide swing, high gain, high bandwidth, low
power and low noise differential amplifier.
  Design of a differential amplifier with current-mirror/active load.
  Design of a high speed, low power voltage mode and current mode
  Design and perform DC, AC, noise, transient analysis of a two-stage op-
Sensors and IoT Lab
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech. 1st year
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
1.  To introduce students with sensors fabrication
2.  To  familiarize  students  with  measurement  instruments  like  Spectrum  and  Vector  Network
3.  To introduce students with various kits and components required for IoT applications
1.  Familiarization with sensor fabrication process and characterization
2.  Handling high frequency measurement instruments
3.  Implementation of various circuits required to build a transceiver
The lab course will be dependent on the various core and elective components of the program.
There  will  be  a  scope  for  modifying  the  contents  depending  on  the  recent  developments  in
technology. Experiments from some of the following topics will be part of this lab.
Implementation of Signal Conditioning Circuits
Implementation of IoT components using Hardware/Software
•  Sensor interfacing using off-the-shelf components
•  Sensor Design, Fabrication and Characterization (Part of this in winter internship)
•  RF components characterization; Antennas and RF amplifiers
•  Selected experiments from Communication Systems
•  Recent topics of interest
Implementation of real time examples of IoT using Embedded Systems
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV year), M.Tech, and Ph.D.
The Instructor will:
1. Make the students understand the importance of nanoscale materials for sensing
2. Explain the approaches used for characterizing sensors based nanomaterials.
3. Teach the approaches used for tailoring nanomaterials for a specific sensing application.
Students are expected to learn
1.  Identify the most appropriate Nanosensors for scientific applications.
2.  Understand the underlying sensing phenomena used in nanosensors;
3.  Reliably process, evaluate and interpret the information presented by nanosensors;
Nanomaterials and Properties: Nanoscale physics for quantum dot, nanowire and quantum
wells; Properties of nanomaterials; nanomechanical oscillators, nano(bio)electronics, nanoscale
heat transfer; fluids at nanoscale  (8 lectures)
Nanoscale Characterization: Examination of nanoscale characterization approaches
including imaging, scattering, and spectroscopic techniques and their physical operating
mechanisms.  Microscopy (optical and electron: SEM, TEM); scattering & diffraction;
spectroscopies (EDX, SIMS, Mass spec, Raman, XPS, XAS); scanning probe microscopes (SPM,
AFM); particle size analysis (8 lectures)
Nanofabrication:Basic engineering principles of nanofabrication. Topics include: photo-,
electron beam and nanoimprint lithography, block of copolymers and self-assembled
monolayers, colloidal assembly, biological nanofabrication (8 lectures)
Nanosensors: Nanosensors based on metal nanoparticles, semi-conductor nanowires and
nanocrystals and carbon nanotubes etc. (10 lectures)
Case Studies of Nanosensors:  Optical, mechanical and chemical sensors based on
nanomaterials, Hybrid nanomaterial-based sensors, Quantum wells based IR sensors (8
1.  Mindy Adams, (2016) Engineered Nanomaterials: Modeling, Methodologies and
Applications, Wellford Press
2.  John Hutchison, Angus Kirkland, (2007) Nano characterisation, RSC
3.  Roger George Jackson, (2004) Novel Sensors and Sensing, CRC Press
Preparatory Course Material
Research  articles  such  as  ACS  Nano  Letters,  ACS  Sensors,  ACS  Nano,  Sensors  &
actuators B etc.
Active Filter Design
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV Year), M.Tech, and Ph.D.
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide theoretical and practical aspects of active filter design
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design analog filters using active components.
2.  Design customized filter for specific applications using approximation theory
Review  of  Network  Theorems  including  Reciprocity  and  Tellegen‟s  theorem,  scattering
parameters, properties of lossless passive networks. (4 Lectures)
filters;  odd  versus  even  order
Butterworth  approximation;  Chebyshev  approximation;  synthesis  of  Butterworthand
filtersFrequency  transformations;  inverse  Chebyshev  and  ellipticapproximations;  synthesis  of
inverse Chebyshev and elliptic filters; Darlington synthesis; signal flow graphs of ladder filters.
filters;  sensitivity  of
minimum required performance of active components.Tuning offilters; transmission line based
filters:  using  high-Z  low-Z  technique,  usingKuroda's  identities;  bi-quad  based  design
approaches and drawbacks; Tow-Thomas biquad, Sallen-Key biquad. (18 Lectures)
1.  Schaumann, R., Xiao, H., Valkenburg, M.V., (2009), “Design of Analog Filters 2nd Edition”,
2nd Edition, Oxford University Press
2.  Tsividis,  Y.P.,  Voorman,  J.O.,  (1993),  “Integrated  Continuous-Time  Filters:  Principles”,
Design, and Applications, IEEE
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Pavan,  S.,  Active  Filter  Design,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of
Technology Madras, http://www.ee.iitm.ac.in/videolectures/doku.php?id=ee534:start
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV Year), M.Tech, and PhD Students
Prerequisite  Electromagnetic theory, Microwave engineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce  the  students  with  the  phenomenon  and  circuit  characteristics  at  mm-wave
2.  Introduce various guiding structures, antennas, and switches at mm-wave frequencies
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the design problems and challenges at mm-wave frequencies
2.  design various mm-wave guiding structures, passive and active circuits
Introduction  to  millimeter-wave  technology:  mm-wave  frequency  bands,  atmospheric
losses, application of mm-waves, Propagation and path losses, Friis equation, link budget and
power budget calculation. (4 lectures)
Novel  Guiding  structures  for  mmwave  circuits:  losses  in  planar  circuits  (conductor  loss,
leakage  loss,  dielectric  loss,  surface  waves),  Air  filled  waveguides,  dielectric  guides,  NRD
guide,  substrate  integrated  waveguides  (SIW),  Substrate  Integrated  NRD  (SINRD),  Gap
Waveguide,  dielectric  image  line,  planar  air  filled  waveguide,  Waveguide  and  planar
resonators,  Dielectric  resonators,  loaded,  unloaded,  and  external  Q-factors,  SPST  and  SPDT
switches. (8 lectures)
Beam-forming network:  Introduction to mmwave  circuits: hybrid coupler, crossover, phase
shifter, butler matrix, nolen matrix, Rotman lens. (5 lectures)
Millimeter  wave  antennas:  Problem  with  traditional  antennas,  horn  antenna,  dielectric  rod
antenna,  Leaky  wave  antenna,  waveguide  slot  array,  chain  antenna  array,  on  chip  antennas,
monopulse  radar  network,  transmitarray,  reflectarray,  millimeterwave  over  the  air  (OTA)
measurement  testing:  Total  Radiated  Power  (TRP),  Total  Isotropic  Sensitivity  (TIS),  Effective
Isotropic Radiated Power (EIRP), Effective Isotropic Sensitivity (EIS). (10 lectures)
Packaging  and  interconnects:  Challenges  in  packaging,  design  of  interconnects  at  mm-
wave frequencies, bondwire interconnections, ball-grid array. (3 lectures)
Millimeterwave  Active  circuits:  mmwave  CMOS  circuits:  LNA,Oscillator,  VCO,  Power
Amplifier, Frequency Synthesizer, SoC for mmwave RADAR, FinFET (10 Lectures)
Case Studies: mmwave transciever for 5G, industrial radar sensor (2 lectures)
1.  KoulS.K.,  (1997),  Millimeter  Wave  and  Optical  Dielectric  Integrated  Guides  and  Circuits,
2.  Courtney  D.  Liu,  B.  Gaucher,  U.  Pfeiffer,  and  J.  Grzyb,  (2009),  Advanced  millimeter  wave
3.  Hueber, G., & Niknejad, A. (Eds.). (2019). Millimeter-Wave Circuits for 5G and Radar (The
Cambridge RF and Microwave Engineering Series). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Self Learning Material
1.  Mandal  M.  K.,  Millimeter-wave  technology,  NPTEL  course  material,  Department  of
2.  TI  Training  &  Vedios,
(2017),  mmWave  RADAR
in  ADAS  Applications,
1. D. M. Pozar, (2011), Microwave Engineering, 4th Ed. New York, NY, USA: Wiley
Selected Topics In Sensors and IoT I
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of sensors
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  1–0–0 [1]
1.  Expose the students to the latest upcoming fields in the area of sensors and IoT
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply  the  knowledge  of  recent  topics  in  the  field  of  sensors  and  IoT  to  specific  areas  of
The topic clouds for the course include some contemporary topics in  sensors and IoT (but not
restricted  to)  like  Nanosensors,  MEMS/NEMS  sensors,  biosensors  modeling  and  design,
industrial IoT. The topics may be further updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Selected Topics In Sensors and IoT II
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of sensors
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  2–0–0 [2]
1.  Expose the students to the latest upcoming fields in the area of sensors and IoT
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the knowledge of recent topics  in the field of sensors and IoT to specific areas of
The topic clouds for the course include some contemporary topics in  sensors and IoT (but not
restricted  to)  like  Nanosensors,  MEMS/NEMS  sensors,  biosensors  modeling  and  design,
industrial IoT. The topics may be further updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Selected Topics In Sensors and IoT III
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of sensors
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
1.  Expose the students to the latest upcoming fields in the area of sensors and IoT
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the knowledge of recent topics  in the field of sensors and IoT to specific areas of
The topic clouds for the course include some contemporary  topics in sensors and IoT (but not
restricted  to)  like  Nanosensors,  MEMS/NEMS  sensors,  biosensors  modeling  and  design,
industrial IoT. The topics may be further updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
M. Tech. – Ph. D. Dual Degree
Communications and Signal Processing
During the past few years, there has been an exponential growth in the usage of internet. The fast
development  of  economy  and  society  requires  modern  and  high-performance  communications
systems that can cater for massive deployment of Internet of Things, while still offering acceptable
levels  of  energy  consumption,  equipment  cost  and  network  deployment  and  operation  cost.  It
needs to support a wide variety of applications and services requiring increased spectral efficiency,
higher data rates, low latency and high reliability. Communications and Signal processing is one of
the  key  technologies  to  meet  the  growing  connectivity  requirements  for  new  use  cases  (e.g.  for
ultra-low  latency  or  high  reliability  cases)  and  new  applications  for  the  industry,  opening  up  new
revenue  streams  also  for  operators.  The  M.  Tech.-Ph.  D.  Dual  Degree  programme  in
Communications  and  Signal  Processing  prepares  students  for  an  advanced  engineering  career  by
in-depth  understanding  of  modern  communication  networks  on  all  layers  and  their  associated
signal  processing  methods.  The  program  provides  students  an  opportunity  to  learn  the
specialization  in  depth  by  updating  and  renewing  their  technical  knowledge  in  a  rapidly  changing
Objective of the Program
Graduates from the program will have in-depth knowledge and critical awareness of theoretical and
practical  solutions  to  problems  at  the  forefront  of  communications  and  the  processing  of  signals.
They  would  be  ready  for  careers  in  fields  such  as  development,  research,  operations  and
management of next-generation telecommunication networks and information processing systems.
  The  graduates  of  this  program  will  have  strong  fundamentals  in  modern  communications
technology and signal processing methods.
  Understanding of cutting-edge research on future generations of wireless communication.
  Analytical  and  experimental  skills  required  to  design  and  implement  next-generation
communication systems for various applications like Internet-of-Things, smart health, Smart
City, Intelligent Transportation Systems
  Ability to do critical and creative thinking, and to conduct independent and original research
  Ability  to  apply  existing  skills  and  knowledge  to  identify  and  formulate  new  problems,
produce new ideas, approaches or actions
  Ability to teach and express ideas in both written and oral formats
•  Ability to statistically characterize and evaluate the performance of communication systems.
•  Ability  to  apply  the  different  methods  for  signal  detection  and  estimation  to  real  world
engineering problems and advanced research
•  Develop  understanding  of  cutting-edge  research  on  future  generations  of  wireless
•  Analyze  multi-user  networks  and  understanding  of
communication,  multiuser  diversity,  superposition  coding  and  successive  interference
Implement end-to-end wireless communication systems with various MIMO technologies like
maximal ratio combining, OFDM, interleaving/de-interleaving, and Alamouti codes
•  Ability to
•  Master a specific set of methods appropriate to their dissertation, with the depth needed to
produce methodologically rigorous research.
•  Carry out research work demonstrating scientific problem solving and generate IPR
Overall Structure (M. Tech. Degree Requirements for Communications and Signal Processing)
M. Tech.  Elective (ME)  M.
Semester wise distribution of credits
Cat.  Course Title
Cat.  Course Title
MC  Statistical Signal Analysis
MC  Wireless Communications
MC  MIMO Wireless Communications  3-0-0  3
MC  Advanced Digital Signal Processing  3-0-0  3
ME  Program Elective-2
MC  Digital Signal Processing  Lab
MC  Communications Engineering Lab  0-0-2
ME  Program Elective-3
ME  Program Elective Lab
ME  Program Elective-1
Innovation and IP Management
NG  Technical Communication
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
ME  Program Elective-4
MO  Open Elective-2
ME  Program Elective-5
NG  Professional Ethics
MO  Open Elective-1
NG  Systems  Engineering  and  Project
Total (Graded+ Non-graded)
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
  Random Processes
  Random parameter
  Multiple  parameter
  Review  of  Fourier
  Error  performance
in AWGN and fading
  Short time Fourier
  Capacity  of  fading
  Finite word length
  Multiuser  systems-
  Multiuser diversity
  Ad-Hoc Networks
  Comparative  study
ASIC and DSP
IIR,  FFT  and
 Implementation  of
 Implementation  of
 Implementation  of
MIMO Wireless Communications
  MIMO channel models
  Receiver architectures
  Diversity multiplexing gain tradeoff
  Multiuser MIMO
  Massive MIMO
Space-time code design
Fundamentals of Data Communication
Data Communication and Networking
  Network layer and topology design
  Network Management
  Mechanisms to improve performance
Transport and Application Layers
  Reliability and security
Complete List of Program Electives
Free Space Optical Communications
GNSS Signal Processing
Advanced Digital Communication
Network Information Theory
Selected Topics in Communication I
Statistical Decision Theory
Selected Topics in Communication II
Multi-rate Digital Signal Processing
Selected Topics in Communication III
Neuromorphic computing and design  3-0-0
Digital  Video Processing
Machine Learning 2
RF IC Design
Real Time Communications
Adaptive Signal Processing
Millimeter Wave Technology (SM)
Optical Fiber Communications
Digital Image and Video Processing Lab 1-0-2
Image sensor Design and Application  3-0-0  3
RF IC Design Lab
Applied Optimization for Wireless
Network Information Theory
Machine Learning for Communications  3-0-0  3
Machine Learning 1
Physical Layer Security
Speech and Audio Processing
Selected Topics in Signal Processing II  2-0-0
Selected Topics in Signal Processing I
Selected Topics in Signal Processing III  3-0-0  3
Machine  Learning  for  Communication
Note: Machine Learning 1 and 2, Bio-Image Computing, and Neuromorphic computing and design
will be offered by CSE, while Graph Theory, Matrix Computations, and Optimization will be offered
by Mathematics Department. The course contents are available in the respective booklets.
Advisory for Program Electives
Program Elective -1
Program Elective Lab
Digital image and Video Processing Lab 1-0-2
RF IC Design Lab
Machine Learning 1
Machine  Learning  for  Communication
Advanced Digital Communication
Selected Topics in Communication I
Selected Topics in Communication II
Selected Topics in Communication III  3-0-0  3
Program Elective -4,5
Free Space Optical Communications
GNSS Signal Processing
Millimeter Wave Technology
Program Elective -2,3
Selected Topics in Communication I
Statistical Decision Theory
Selected Topics in Communication II
Selected Topics in Communication III
Digital Video Processing
Neuromorphic computing and design  3-0-0
Machine Learning for Communications  3-0-0
Selected Topics in Communication I
Real Time Communications
Selected Topics in Communication II
Selected Topics in Communication III  3-0-0  3
Multi-rate Digital Signal Processing
RF IC Design
Speech and Audio Signal  Processing
Selected Topics in Signal Processing I
Adaptive Signal Processing
Selected Topics in Signal Processing II  2-0-0
Optical Fiber Communications
Selected Topics in Signal Processing III  3-0-0
Image sensor Design and Application  3-0-0  3
Applied Optimization for Wireless
Machine Learning 2
Network Information Theory
Physical Layer Security
Selected Topics in Signal Processing I   1-0-0
Selected Topics in Signal Processing II  2-0-0  2
Selected Topics in Signal Processing III  3-0-0  3
Detailed Course Contents
Statistical Signal Analysis
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Comm. Engg.)
Prerequisite  Knowledge  of  Probability  Theory  and  Fundamentals  of
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide background to understand different types of random processes
2.  Introduce the different methods of parameter estimation
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the knowledge of random processes for statistical characterization of communication
2.  Apply  the  different  methods  for  signal  estimation  to  real  world  engineering  problems  and
(fractal 1) EEL7XX1 Characterization of Random processes: stationarity, mean,
correlation, and covariance functions, WSS random process, autocorrelation and cross-
correlation functions, transmission of a random process through a linear filter, power spectral
density, white random process, Gaussian process, Poisson process (14 Lectures)
(fractal 2) EEL7XX2 Estimation Theory:Random parameter estimation: risk function, MMSE
estimators, MAP estimators  (6 Lectures)
Non-random  parameter  estimation:  CRLB  for  non-random  parameters,  ML  estimation  rule,
asymptotic  properties  of  ML  estimates,  linear  minimum  variance  estimation,  condition  for
statistical efficiency (8 Lectures)
(fractal  3)  EEL7XX3Multiple  Parameter  Estimation:  estimation  procedure,  measures  of
error, properties and bounds on estimation errors for random and non-random parameters
1.  Papoulis,  A.  and  Pillai,  U.  S.,  (2002),  Probability,  Random  Variables,  and  Stochastic
Processes, 4th Edition, Tata Mc-Graw Hill
2.  Van Trees, H. L., (2003), Detection, Estimation and Modulation Theory: Part-1, 2nd Edition,
3.  Kay, S.M., (1998), Fundamentals of Statistical Signal Processing: Vol. 1 Estimation Theory,
1st Edition, Prentice Hall
1.  Sinha,  R.,  Signal  Detection  and  Estimation  Theory,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Guwahati,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Thangraj,  A.,  Probability  Foundations  for  Electrical  Engineers,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Institute  of  Technology  Madras,
Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Comm. Engg.)
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide students an understanding of the  concepts related to communication over wireless
2.    Expose  students  to  concepts  and  techniques  for  exploiting  fading and  application  of  these
concepts in multiuser communication systems context.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  concepts  related  to  deep  fade,  diversity  techniques  and  channel  capacity  for
point-to-point wireless communications systems.
2.  Analyze  multi-user  networks  and  understanding  of  techniques
communication,  multiuser  diversity,  superposition  coding  and  successive  interference
3.  Analyze and design wireless ad-hoc networks with special emphasis on energy constrained
Wireless  Channels:  Modelling  of  wireless  channels;  space,  time  and  frequency  channel
coherence; input/output channel models for single and multi-antenna systems (7 lectures)
Diversity: Digital modulation and its performance in fading; inter-symbol interference; realizing
diversity:  time  diversity,  frequency  diversity,  antenna  diversity;  code  design  for  wireless
channels (14 lectures)
Wireless Channel Capacity: Capacity of the Gaussian channels; capacity of fading channels (7
Multiuser  system  design:  Multiple  access  and  random  access  techniques;  multiuser  channel
capacity (7 lectures)
Ad  hoc  wireless  network:  design  principles,  protocol  layers,  network  capacity  limits,  and
energy-constrained networks. (7 lectures)
1.  Tse,  D.  and  Viswanath,  P.,  (2005),  Fundamentals  of  wireless  communication,  Cambridge
2.  Goldsmith, A., (2005), Wireless Communications, Cambridge University Press.
3.  Simon, M. K. and Alouini, M. S., (2004), Digital communication over fading channels, John
Wiley and Sons.
1.  Zheng,  L.,  Principles  of  Wireless  Communications,  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  Electrical
Engineering  &  Computer
Preparatory Course Material
1. Jagannatham, A. K., Principles of Communication II, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
2.  Zheng,  L.  and  Gallager,  R.,  Principles  of  Digital  Communications  I,  MIT  OpenCourseWare,
Electrical  Engineering  &  Computer  Science,  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology,
Advanced Digital Signal Processing
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Signals and Systems
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide students an understanding of analysis and synthesis of algorithms and systems that
process discrete time signals, with emphasis on realization and implementation
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Interpret and process discrete/digital signal and systems
2.  Analyze and provide solutions to practical implementation issues of DSP systems
Review of Fourier analysis Discrete time systems, DTFT, Z-transform, Analysis of LSI systems,
DFT and FFT (9 lectures)
Time-frequency  representation;  frequency  scale  and  resolution;  uncertainty  principle,  short-
time Fourier transform (5 lectures)
Multi-resolution concept and analysis, Wavelet transforms (CWT, DWT) (4 lectures)
Families of wavelets: Orthogonal and bi orthogonal wavelets Daubechies‟ family of orthogonal
wavelets, elements of multi-rate systems and two band filter bank design for dyadic wavelets
Multirate systems: sampling rate conversion, implementation of Multirate systems, filter design
for Multirate systems, two channel filter banks and multi-channel filter banks. (5 lectures)
Finite  wordlength  effects:  Number  representation,  statistical  analysis  of  quantization  error,
quantization  of  Fixed-point  and  Floating  point  numbers,  A/D  and  D/A  conversion,  A/D
conversion  noise  analysis,  quantization  of  filter  coefficients,  Effects  of  finite  wordlength  on
digital filters. (6 lectures)
Applications of ADSP (3 lectures)
1.  Proakis,  J.  G.  and  Manolakis,D.G.,  (2007),  Digital  Signal  Processing,  4th  Edition,  Prentice
2.  Mitra, S. K., (2008), Digital Signal Processing, 3nd Edition, McGraw Hill
3.  Manolakis,D.G.,  and  Ingle,  V.,  (2011),  Applied  Digital  Signal  Processing,  1st  Edition,
Cambridge University Press
1.  Basu,  T.  K.,  Digital  Signal  Processing,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Electrical
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Jagannatham, A. K., Principles of Signals and Systems, NPTEL Course Material, Department
Digital Signal Processing Lab
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
Offered for  M.Tech. - Ph.D. Dual Degree (Comm. Engg.)
The Instructor will:
1.  Help design and implement a DSP system using DSP kits.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Implement algorithms on DSP kits.
2.  Make choice of specific DSP architecture for given application.
An introduction to Digital Signal Processors  and the associated interface hardware and
Basic exercises in programming Digital Signal Processors, signal generation, processing
and file I/O
The  Joint  “systems  –  algorithms  –  architectures”  perspective  as  a  holistic  approach  in
Signal Processing applications
Comparative  studies between general purpose  microprocessors/computing devices and
specialized  application  specific  integrated  circuits  (ASICs)  and  digital  signal
implementation  of  Analog
to  Digital  Conversion,  sampling  and
reconstruction,  simple  Discrete  Time Systems, Finite Impulse Response Filters, and
Infinite Impulse Response Filters.
Fast Fourier Transforms and Spectral Estimation – Algorithms, Implementation.
Realization  and  implementation  of  computationally  efficient  Digital  Signal  Processing
structures like the lattice structure, ladder structure.
1.  Venkataramani, B., and Bhaskar, M., (2011), Digital Signal Processors: Architecture,
Programming and Applications, 2nd Edition, Tata McGraw Hill
2.  Proakis,  J.  G.,  and  Manolakis,  D.  G.,  (1997),  Digital  Signal  Processing  –  Principles,
Algorithms and Applications, 3rd Edition, Prentice Hall of India
3.  Udayashankara,  V.,  (2010),  Real  Time  Digital  Signal  Processing,  Fundamentals,
Algorithms and Implementation Using TMS Processor, Prentice Hall India
1.  Manuals for DSP Kits and MATLAB literature on Mathworks website
Preparatory Course Material
Jagannatham,  A.  K.,  Principles  of  Signals  and  Systems,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Kanpur,
Communications Engineering Lab
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
Offered for  M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Comm. Engg.)
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Familiarize  students  with  the  baseband  generation  software  tools  and  the
2.  Expose students to end-to-end implementation of wireless communication systems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design, test and evaluate communication systems.
2.    Implement  end-to-end  wireless  communication  systems  with  various  MIMO
technologies  like  maximal  ratio  combining,  OFDM,  interleaving/de-interleaving,  and
An introduction to measurement equipment like Signal Analyzer, AFG, Oscilloscope.
Study  and  implementation  of  end-to-end  single  antenna  communication  system  with  -
Continuous  Wave  Carrier,  I-Q  modulation  with  coherent  and  non-coherent  signaling,
BPSK modulation with channel coding techniques.
Implementation  and  demonstration  of  effect  of  channel
Study and implementation of various MIMO receiver architectures, diversity techniques
(Time  (Linear  Block  Codes  with interleaving/de-interleaving),  frequency  (coded  OFDM)
and antenna diversity (Alamouti code).
1.  Tse,  D.  and  Viswanath,  P.,  (2005),  Fundamentals  of  wireless  communication,
Cambridge University Press.
2.  Goldsmith, A., (2005), Wireless Communications, Cambridge University Press.
3.    Simon,  M.  K.  and  Alouini,  M.  S.,  (2004),  Digital  communication  over  fading
channels, John Wiley and Sons.
1.  User manual for Signal Analyzer, AFG, and Oscilloscope.
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Zheng,  L.  and  Gallager,  R.,  Principles  of  Digital  Communications  I,  MIT
OpenCourseWare,    Electrical  Engineering  &  Computer  Science,  Massachusetts  Institute
Data Communication and Networking
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech (IV Year), M. Tech., PhD.
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Wireless Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose the students to distinguishing features of wireless networks
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design and optimize wireless network architectures.
2.  Implement security techniques for wireless networks.
Fundamentals:  Layered  architecture  overview,  data  communication  techniques,
motivations  for  cross-layer  protocol  design,  motivations  for  performance  analysis,
forward error correction and re-transmission performances (7 Lectures)
Network  layer  and  topology  design:  Markov  and  semi-Markov  processes,  Little‟s
theorem,  M/M/m/k,  M/G/1  systems,  priority  queueing,  network  of  queues,  network
traffic  behavior,  routing  algorithms  and  analysis,  distributed  networks,  design
constraints, bounded latency networks, optimization, cognitive networks (10 Lectures)
Network  Management:Power  management,  time  synchronization,  localization,  energy-
efficient protocols for sensor networks (7 Lectures)
Mechanisms  to  improve  performance:  Self-Organizing  Network,  Software-Defined
Networking (7 Lectures)
Transport and Application Layers: congestion control and quality of service, scheduling,
multimedia, key aspects and design issues (7 Lectures)
Reliability  and security:  Security  requirement  and  attacks,  Encryption  techniques,
reliable and secure communication protocols (4 Lectures)
1.  Dargie, W., and Poellabauer, C., (2010), Fundamentals ofWireless Sensor Networks:
Theory and Practice, Wiley
2.  Stallings, W., (2007), Data and Computer Communications, 8th Edition, Pearson
3.  Bertsekas,  D.  P.  and  Gallager,  R.  G.,  (1992),  Data  Networks,  2nd  Edition,  Prentice
4.  Mishra,  S.,  Wireless  Adhoc  and  Sensors  Networks,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Department  of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Communication  Engineering,  Indian
Institute of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105160/
5.  Zou, Y., Zhu, J., Wang, X., and Hanzo, L., "A Survey on Wireless Security: Technical
Challenges,  Recent  Advances,  and  Future  Trends,"  in  Proceedings  of  the  IEEE,  vol.
104, no. 9, pp. 1727-1765, Sept. 2016.
6.  W.  Xia,  Y.  Wen,  C.  H.  Foh,  D.  Niyato  and  H.  Xie,  "A  Survey  on  Software-Defined
Networking," in IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 27-51,
First quarter 2015.
Preparatory Course Material
2.  Zheng,  L.,  Principles  of  Wireless  Communications,  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  Electrical
Institute  of  Technology,
Engineering  &  Computer  Science,  Massachusetts
MIMO Wireless Communications
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Comm. Engg.)
Prerequisite  Wireless Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  exposure  to  the  fundamental  concepts  and  techniques  of  multiple-input
multiple-output (MIMO) communications over wireless communication channels.
2.  Expose  students  to  the  massive  MIMO  theory  that  gives  rise  to  improved  reliability
and increased data rates.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  the  concepts  and  mathematical  tools  related  to  MIMO  architecture  like
V-BLAST, D-BLAST, beamforming and diversity multiplexing gain tradeoff.
2.    Analyze,  design,  and  simulate  MIMO  communication  systems  with  a  special
emphasis on space-time codes and signaling techniques for massive MIMO.
Channel  Modeling  and  Spatial  Multiplexing:  Multiplexing  Capability  of  Deterministic
MIMO  Channels,  Physical  Modeling  of  MIMO  Channels,  Modeling  of  MIMO  Fading
Channels (7 Lectures)
Capacity  and  Multiplexing  Architectures:  The  V-BLAST  Architecture,  Fast  Fading  MIMO
Channel,  Receiver  Architectures,  Slow  Fading  MIMO  Channel,  D-BLAST:  An  Outage-
Optimal Architecture (7 Lectures)
Diversity-Multiplexing  Tradeoff  and  Space-Time  Codes:  Diversity-Multiplexing  Tradeoff,
Space-time Code Design for Optimal Diversity-Multiplexing Tradeoff (7 Lectures)
MIMO  Multiuser  Communication:  Uplink  with  Multiple  Receive  Antennas,  MIMO  Uplink,
Downlink  with  Multiple  Transmit  Antennas,  MIMO  Downlink,  Multiple  Antennas  in
Cellular Networks: A System View (9 Lectures)
Massive  MIMO  networks:  Large  MIMO  systems-  Channel  hardening  and  favorable
propagation, channel estimation, precoding in large MIMO systems (12 Lectures)
1.  Tse,  D.  and  Viswanath,  P.,  (2005),  Fundamentals  of  wireless  communication,
Cambridge University Press.
2.    Chockalingam  A.  and  Rajan  B.  S.,  (2014),  Large  MIMO  Systems,  Cambridge
3.    Biglieri  E.,  Calderbank  R.,  Constantinides  A.,  Paulraj  A.  and  Poor  H.  V.,  (2007),
MIMO Wireless Communications, Cambridge University Press.
1.  Zheng K.,  Zhao L., Mei J., Shao B., Xiang W. and Hanzo L., "Survey of Large-Scale
MIMO  Systems,"  in  IEEE  Communications  Surveys  &  Tutorials,  vol.  17,  no.  3,  pp.
2.  Wu  Y.,  Xiao  C.,  Ding  Z.,  Gao  X.  and  Jin  S.,  "A  Survey  on  MIMO  Transmission  With
Finite  Input  Signals:  Technical  Challenges,  Advances,  and  Future  Trends,"  in
Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 106, no. 10, pp. 1779-1833, Oct. 2018.
Details of Elective Courses
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Knowledge of Probability Theory and  Fundamentals of
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide an introduction to different types of channel codes.
2.  Familiarize students with the fundamentals of error detection and correction.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design channel codes for error detection and correction.
2.  Analyze and compare the performance of uncoded and coded communication systems.
Introduction: Review of information theory, motivation for channel coding(3 Lectures)
Introduction  to  Linear  Algebra:  Introduction  to  finite  fields,  field  arithmetic,  vector  spaces(4
Linear Block Codes: Properties of LBCs, some specific LBCs (Repetition codes, Hamming codes,
LDPC  codes),  soft  decision  decoding  of  LBCs,  Hard  decision  decoding  of  LBCs,  Bounds  on
minimum distance of LBCs(7 Lectures)
Cyclic  Codes:  Definition  and  properties,  polynomial  representation,  encoding  and  decoding  of
cyclic codes, burst error correction (7 Lectures)
BCH  and  RS  codes:  Introduction  to  BCH  Codes:  Generator  Polynomials,  Multiple  Error
Correcting  BCH  Codes,  Decoding  of  BCH  Codes,  Introduction  to  RS  codes,  Decoding  RS
Convolutional  Codes:  Structure  of  convolutional  codes,  decoding  of  convolutional  codes,
distance bounds for convolutional codes, punctured convolutional codes(7 Lectures)
Trellis  coded  modulation:  Introduction  to  TCM,  Ungerboeck‟s  TCM  design  rules,  TCM  decoder,
performance evaluation of TCM schemes(7 Lectures)
1.  Lin, S. and Costello, D. J., (2004), Error Control Coding, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall
2.  Proakis, J. G. and Salehi, M., (2007), Digital Communications, 5th Edition, McGraw-Hill
3.  Bose, R., (2017), Information Theory, Coding and Cryptography, 3rd Edition, McGraw-Hill
1.  Thangraj, A., Coding Theory, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Electrical Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117106031/
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Jagannatham, A. K.,  Principles  of  Communication II,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/108104098/
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Electromagnetic Theory
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce the various concept of antenna design.
2. familiarize the students with the application of different type of antennas
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design low profile antennas and high gain antenna arrays for practical applications
2.  Utilize  simulation  software  for  designing  Antenna  systems  and  test  RF  and
Introduction  to  Antennas:  Radiation  mechanism,  Current  distribution  on  a  thin  wire
antenna,  Review  of  Antenna  Parameters;  Friis  Transmission  formulae,  Radar  Range
equation (7 Lectures)
Radiation Integrals and Auxiliary Potential Function Vector potential for electric current
source  and  magnetic  current  source,  inhomogeneous  vector  potential  wave  equation,
duality theorem, reciprocity theorem (3 Lectures)
Design  of  Dipole  Antenna  Design  of  Infinitesimal  dipole,  small  dipole,  half-wavelength
dipole (4 Lectures)
Microstrip  antenna  Rectangular  patch  antenna,  feeding  methods,  transmission  line
model, cavity model, Circular Patch Antenna  (4 Lectures)
Low-profile  Antenna  Application:  Mobile  handset  antenna-  helical  wire  and  variants;
electrically  small  antenna;  power  factor,  quality  factor  and  bandwidth;  radiation
efficiency  and  realized  gain;    PIFA;  On-chip  antenna;    SAR  measurement  and
miniaturization; GPS and Bluetooth antenna; medical application- antennas for medical
imaging;  heating;  sensing;  Automobile  antennas-  MAST  antenna;  Window  glass
antenna; Panel Antenna; (10 Lectures)
Design  of  Antenna  Arrays  Analysis  of  Two  element  array,  N-element  linear  array
(uniform  and  nonuniform  amplitude  excitation:  Binomial,  Dolph-Tschebyscheff,  Taylor
distribution), planar array, Phased Array  (5 Lectures)
Aperture Antenna Field equivalence principle, Radiation equation, Rectangular aperture,
circular  aperture,  Babinet‟s  principle,  Sectoral  horn  antenna,  Pyramidal  Horn  antenna
Antenna  Measurement  Antenna  Ranges,  Radiation  Pattern  measurement,  Gain
(absolute  gain  method,  gain  comparison  method),  Directivity
measurement  (3 Lectures)
1.  Balanis    C.  A.,  (2016),  Antenna  Theory,    Analysis  and  Design,  4th  edition,  Wiley
2.  Krauss  J. D., (2006), Antennas and Wave Propagation, 4th edition, TMH Education
3.  Elliott  R. S., (2006), Antenna Theory and Design, Wiley Press
1. Kumar,  G., Antennas, NPTEL Course Material, Department of  Electrical Engineering,
2.Ferraro,  A.,  Antenna  Engineering,  Video  Lectures,  Penn  State  Univ.,  USA,
Preparatory Course Material
1. Kumar, P., Electromagnetic Theory, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Electrical
2.  Kumar, G.,  Microwave Theory and Techniques,  Department of Electrical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay,
Advanced Digital Communication
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Fundaments of Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  strong  theoretical  foundation  of  digital communication  modulation  schemes
and performance evaluation.
2.  Familiarize  students  with  the  fundamentals  of  communication  through  band  limited
channels and synchronization.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design receivers for optimum performance.
2.  Analyze communication systems for their bit error performance.
Introduction:  Complex  baseband
orthogonalization  procedure,  M-ary  orthogonal  signals,  bi-orthogonal  signals,
simplex signal waveforms(4 Lectures)
Digital  Modulation  Schemes:  Memoryless  modulation  schemes,  signaling  schemes  with
memory, power spectral density of digitally modulated signals(10 Lectures)
Optimum  receivers  for  AWGN  channels:  Coherent  and  non-coherent  demodulation:
Matched  filter,  Correlator  demodulator,  square-law,  and  envelope  detection;
Detector:  Optimum  rule  for  ML  and  MAP  detection  Performance:  Bit-error-rate,
symbol error rate for coherent and non-coherent schemes(14 Lectures)
Carrier  and  Symbol  Synchronization:  carrier  recovery  and  symbol  synchronization  in
demodulation, carrier phase estimation, symbol timing estimation(4 Lectures)
Digital  Communication  through  Band  Limited  channels:  signal  design  through  band
limited  channels,  Optimum  receiver  for  channel  with  ISI  and  AWGN,  Linear
equalization, Decision -feedback equalization(10 Lectures)
1.  Proakis, J. G. and Salehi, M., (2007),  Digital Communications, 5th Edition, McGraw-
2.  Madhow, U., (2008), Fundamentals of Digital Communication, 1st Edition, Cambridge
3.  Barry, J. R., Lee, E. A., and Messerschmitt, D. G., (2004),  Digital Communications,
3rd Edition, Springer
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Jagannatham,  A.  K.,  Principles  of  Communication  II,  Department  of  Electrical
Statistical Decision Theory
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  2–0–0 [2]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Fundamentals of Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide background to  understand the fundamental aspects of decision making and
hypothesis testing that are essential for communication receiver design
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the different methods for signal  detection to real world engineering problems
and advanced research
2.  Garner useful insights into performance evaluation of communication systems
Introduction: structure of detection theory problems (1 Lecture)
Simple  Binary  Hypothesis  Testing:  decision  criteria,  Maximum  Likelihood  criterion,
Neyman-Pearson  criterion,  Bayes  risk,  probability  of  error  and  min-max  criterion,
receiver operating characteristics, composite hypothesis testing (6 Lectures)
M-ary  Hypotheses  or  Multiple  Decision  Theory:  multiple  decisions,  Bayes  risk,
probability  of  error,  general  Gaussian  problem,  performance  bounds  and
approximations (14 Lectures)
Detection  of  Continuous  Time  Signals:  detection  of  signals  in  additive  white  Gaussian
noise, detection in colored noise, signals with unwanted parameters (random phase,
random amplitude and phase) (7 Lectures)
1.  Van  Trees,  H.  L.,  (2003),  Detection,  Estimation  and  Modulation  Theory:  Part-1,  2nd
Edition, John Wiley
2.    Kay,  S.M.,  (1998),  Fundamentals  of  Statistical  Signal  Processing:  Vol.  2  Detection
Theory, 1st Edition, Prentice Hall
1.  Sinha,  R.,  Signal  Detection  and  Estimation  Theory,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Department  of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology
Preparatory Course Material
1. Thangraj, A., Probability Foundations for Electrical Engineers, NPTEL Course Material,
Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Madras,
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Fundamentals of  Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Help  students  understand  the  relationship  between  optimal  filtering,  linear
estimation, and Wiener/Kalman filtering
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Derive  and  manipulate  the  time  discrete  and  time  continuous  Wiener  and  Kalman
filter  equations  and  compute  the  Wiener  and  Kalman  filter  for  a  given  estimation
2.  Design optimal filters in the case of non-Gaussian noise or non-linear models.
Weiner  Theory  for  scalar  processes:  continuous  time  Weiner  smoothing,  solution  to
Weiner Hopf  equation, discrete time Weiner Hopf technique, recursive Weiner filtering,
time-invariant state  space models,  recursive estimation given state-space models  (14
Kalman  Filter:  Derivation  of  the  Kalman  filter,  Filter  properties,  Steady-state  Kalman
filter,    Prediction and smoothing, Kalman filter recursions, recursion for predicted and
filtered state estimators (14 Lectures)
Nonlinear  Filtering:  The  extended  Kalman
measurement update, Applications in navigation and signal processing (14 Lectures)
filter,  The  Levenberg-Marquardt
1.  Kamen and Su, J. K., (1999), Introduction to Optimal Estimation, Springer Verlag
2.  Kailath, T., Sayed, A., and Hassibi, B., (2000), Linear Estimation, Prentice Hall
Digital video processing
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Fourier analysis
The Instructor will:
1.  introduce foundations of image and video signal processing and highlight similarities
and differences between the two
2. Expose  student to  importance  of motion in videos and its estimation, and use it for
applications such as video compression, object tracking/recognition
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  meaningfully  exploit  the  concept  of  spatio-temporal  information  in  visual  signals  to
develop applications in the broad area of multimedia signal processing
Motion  analysis  in  video  signals:Concepts  of  2D  motion,  optical  flow,  block-based  and
pel-recursive methods for motion estimation, regularization techniques (8 lectures)
Recent trends in video technologies:
Stereo and multiview videos:introduction to depth perception and disparity estimation,
Synthesis, stereo and multiview display (14 lectures)
HDR  and  Wide  Color  Gamut  (WCG)  videos:  capture  via  exposure  fusion,  single  HDR
HDR  display  modeling,  Standard-gamut  versus  wide  color  gamut,  ITU-T  BT.709  and
HDR-HFR-UHD-WCG:  dependencies  from  human  visual  system  perspective,  issue  of
distance (6 lectures)
360-degree  videos:  introduction  to  360-degree  (omni  directional)  video  capture  and
challenges in applying traditional 2D video processing techniques (4 lectures)
1.  Tekalp,M., (2015), Digital Video Processing, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall
Self Learning Material
1.  Katsaggelos,  A.K.,  Fundamentals  of  Image  and  Video  Processing,  Coursera,
Northwestern University, https://www.coursera.org/learn/digital
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Jagannatham,  A.  K.,  Principles  of  Signals  and  Systems,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Kanpur,
Optical Fiber Communications
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV Year), M.Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  EM Theory
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the fundamental principles and the practices followed in the area  of  optical
2.  Enable  the  appreciation  of  the  global  connectivity  achieved  via  optical  fiber
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design  and  implement  an  end-to-end  fiber  optic  communication  link  using
commercially available LASERs, LEDs and Photodetectors.
(Fractal  1)Optical  Fiber  Waveguide:  EEL6XX1  [1-0-0]Introduction  to  :Vector
Nature of Light, Optical Fiber – Single and Multimode, Step index and Graded Index
Fibers,  Ray  and  Wave  picture  of  propagation,  Cut-off,  mode  field  diameter,  group
delay, Gaussian field approximation. (8 Lectures)
Transmission Characteristics: The consequences of attenuation and dispersion in Optical
Fibers:  Material,  Waveguide,  Polarization,  Intermodal  and  Intramodal  Dispersion,
Group velocity Dispersion, Dispersion modified single mode fibers. Fiber Fabrication
Methods. (6 Lectures)
(Fractal  2)Optical  Sources  and  receivers:EEL6XX2  [1-0-0]  LASERS:  Population
inversion  and  feedback,  Spontaneous  and  Stimulated  emission,  Injection  LASERS,
Gain and Index Guided LASERS, VSCELS, LASER Characteristics and Driver Circuits,
Fiber Coupling. LED: Structure, Characteristics and Driver Circuits. (7 Lectures)
Phototransistors,  Responsivity,  Quantum  Efficiency,  Noise,  Optical  Receiver
structures:  Low,  high  and  transimpedance  front  end,  Low  noise  Preamplifiers.  (7
(Fractal  3)Optical  Fiber  Link  Design:  EEL6XX3  [1-0-0]Fiber  joints,  connectors,
couplers and isolators, Splicing operation, System Planning considerations, quantum
limit,  SNR,  BER  calculation,  Rise  time  budgeting,  Power  budgeting,  Choice  of
components, Principles of Coherent and Incoherent Optical communication systems.
Introduction  to  Nonlinear  effects:  Impact  of  SPM,  XPM,  FWM  on  communication
systems,  Raman  and  Brillioun  Scattering  and  solition  based  communication.  (4
Miscellaneous:  EDFA, Raman amplifier, and WDM and SDM systems. (2 Lectures)
1.  J.  M.  Senior,  Optical  Fiber  Communications:  Principles  and  Practice,  Prentice
Hall, 3rd Edition, 2010.
2.  G. Keiser, Fibre Optic Communication McGraw-Hill, 5th Edition. 2013.
3.  G.  Agrawal,  Fiber  optic  Communication  Systems,  John  Wiley  and  sons,  4th
Self Learning Material
1.  NPTEL Lectures on Advanced Optical Communication by Prof. R.K. Shevgaonkar,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  (Fractal  1)  Some  concepts  from  “M.O.  Sadiku  and  S.V.  Kulkarni,  Principles  of
Electromagnetics”, Oxford University Press, 6th edition, 2015.
2.  (Fractal  2)  Some  Concepts  from  “Jacob  Millman  et.al.,  Integrated  Electronics”,
McGraw Hill Education, 2nd Edition, 2017.
3.  (Fractal  3)  Some  concepts  from  “B.P.  Lathi  and  Z.  Ding,  Modern  Digital  and
Analog Communication Systems”, Oxford University Press, 4th Edition, 2011
Digital image processing and applications
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Fourier analysis
The Instructor will:
1. introduce basic concepts in image signal capture and display
2. provide an in-depth coverage of few recent applications of digital image processing
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  implement  end-to-end  systems  that  can  capture,  process  and  render  a  digital  image  in  a
Introduction:basic concepts of image signal capture, relation of pixels to physical luminance (3
Display modeling: concept of dynamic range, color correction, modeling of a conventional
display, modeling of modern Led-backlit displays, applications (6 lectures)
Image processing and Machine Learning:similarities and differences between traditional and
ML based models, augmenting traditional image processing with ML (6 lectures)
Sparse models for image processing: dictionary learning, modeling of natural image patches,
applications of sparse modeling (denoising, inpainting, super resolution) (7 lectures)
Image inpainting: use-case scenarios, analytical methods (PDE, SVD, dictionary learning etc.)
for inpainting, exemplar-based inpainting, content-aware filling in Adobe Photoshop CS5,
semantic inpainting using machine learning (10 lectures)
Image saliency: bottom-up and top-down mechanisms, saliency due to color and texture,
automatic saliency prediction using traditional and ML based approaches, applications of
saliency (6 lectures)
Perceptual image processing: masking, contrast sensitivity, angular frequency and viewing
Distance (4 lectures)
1.  Gonzalez, R.C. and Woods, R.E., (2018), Digital Image Processing, 4th Edition, Prentice Hall
Self Learning Material
1.  Katsaggelos,  A.K.,  Fundamentals  of  Image  and  Video  Processing,  Coursera,  Northwestern
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Rao,  R.  V.,  Advanced  Matrix  Theory  and  Linear  Algebra  For  Engineers,  NPTEL  Course
Material,  Centre  for  Electronics  Design  and  Technology,  Indian  Institute  of  Science,
Multirate Digital Signal Processing
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  2–0–0 [2]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Digital Signal Processing
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  the  concept  of  multirate  signal  processing  and  demonstrate  the  ability  to
solve the problems in sample rate conversion, filter banks and Transmultiplexers
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  the  basic  concepts  of  multirate  systems;  understanding  of  decimation,
interpolation and filterbanks
2.  Understand  the  realizations  for  upsampling  and  downsampling  of  signals  using
3.  design the filter banks based on the techniques discussed in the class
Review of Digital Filters, Multirate Systems (3 Lectures)
Interconnection of Multirate DSP blocks, Multiplexer and demultiplexer functionality (4
Application of Multirate DSP: DFT- based filterbanks, Transmultiplexer, Filterbank
Interpretation of Spectral Analysis using DFT, Two channel maximally decimated filter
banks (6 Lectures)
Introduction to OFDM (5 lectures)
Multicarrier modulation, Block transceivers with redundancy, Zero-padding, cyclic prefx,
OFDM, extensions of OFDM including Filterbank Multicarrier (FBMC) (6 lectures)
Application of Multirate DSP: Delta Sigma A/D conversion (4 lectures)
1.  Vaidyanathan, P. P., (2008), Multirate Systems and Filter Banks, Pearson Education
2.  Harris,  F.  J.,  (2007),  Multirate  Signal  Processing  for  Communication  Systems,  1st
Edition, Pearson Education
1.  Kovilpillai D., Multirate Digital Signal Processing, NPTEL Course Material, Department
of Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Chennai,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Dutta,  S.  C.  R.,  Digital  Signal  Processing,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Network Information Theory
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Comm. Engg.)
Prerequisite  Wireless Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  fundamental  concepts  in  multi-user  and  network  information  theory  with
applications in communications
2.  Expose  students  to  the  fundamentals  of  the  multiple  access  channel,  broadcast
channel,  channels  with  state,  interference  channel,  relay  channel,  network  coding
and MIMO multiuser channels.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  the  core  ideas  of  network  information  theory,  including  key  multi-user  coding
techniques,  proof  ideas  and  performance  analysis  in  modern  communications
Review of basic information theory concepts: entropy, mutual information (3 lectures)
Multiple access channel: capacity, successive interference cancellation (4 lectures)
Gaussian  Degraded  Broadcast  Channels:  Discrete  Memoryless  Broadcast  Channel,
Simple  Bounds  on  the  Capacity  Region,  Superposition  Coding  Inner  Bound,  Degraded
DM-BC, Gaussian Broadcast Channel (7 lectures)
Channels  with  state:  DMC  with  state,  Compound  Channel,  Arbitrarily Varying  Channel,
Channels with Random State, Causal State Information Available at the Encoder, Non-
causal State Information Available at the Encoder, dirty-paper coding (7 lectures)
Interference  channel:  Discrete  Memoryless  Interference  Channel,  Simple  Coding
Schemes,  Strong  Interference,  Gaussian  Interference  Channel,  Han-Kobayashi  Inner
Bound, Capacity Region of the Gaussian IC within Half a Bit (7 lectures)
Relay  channel:  Cut-set  Upper  Bound  on  the  Capacity,  Direct-Transmission  Lower
Bound,  Decode–Forward  Lower  Bound,  Gaussian  Relay  Channel,  Compress–Forward
Lower  Bound,  Receiver  Frequency  Division  Gaussian  Relay  Channel,  Look-ahead  Relay
Channels (7 lectures)
interference alignment. (7 lectures)
interference  networks:  network  coding,  noisy  network  coding,
1.  Gamal  A.  E.  and  Kim  Y.  H.,  (2012),  Network  Information  Theory,  Cambridge
2.  Kramer G., (2008), Topics in multi-user information theory, now Publishers Inc.
3.  Cover T. and Thomas J., (2006), Element of Information Theory, Wiley-Interscience.
1.  Avestimehr  A.  S.,  Diggavi  S.N.  and  Tse  D.  N.  C.,  "Wireless  Network  Information
Flow: A Deterministic Approach," IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. 57,
No. 4, pp.1872-1905, 2011.
2.  Dimakis  A.  G.,  Godfrey  P.  B.,  Wu  Y.,  Wainwright  M.  J.  and  Ramchandran  K.,
for  Distributed  Storage  Systems,"  IEEE  Transactions  on
Information Theory, Vol. 56, No. 9, pp. 4539 - 4551, 2010.
Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit Design
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV Year), M.Tech, and PhD
Communication engineering and EM Theory
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce students to the integrated circuit designing at radio frequencies.
2.  Introduce various circuits and building blocks for communication applications.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the design of integrated circuits at high frequencies.
2.  Practically implement various circuits required to build a transceiver system.
3.  Learn  about  the  design  of  various  active  components  like  mixers,  LNAs,  power
amplifiers at RF and microwave frequencies.
Communication  System  Overview:Modulation,  Mobile  Systems,  Multiple  Access
Techniques, Wireless Standards. (2 lectures)
Noise:Noise  spectrum,  device  noise,  noise  in  a  circuit,  effect  of  noise  on  transfer
function. (4 lectures)
Transceiver  Architectures:Heterodyne  Receivers,  Direct-Conversion  Receivers,  Image
Reject and Low IF Receivers, Transmitter Architectures. (4 lectures)
Concepts  of  RF  Design:Wave  Guides  and  Transmission  Lines,  coupled  lines,  S-
Parameters,  Smith  Chart,  single  and  double  stub  impedance  matching,  Two-port  gain
and stability analysis. (10 lectures)
Amplifier  Design:Concepts  of  nonlinearity,  time  variance  and  IIP3,  model  of  MOS
transistors  and  BJT  at  high  frequencies,  wideband  amplifiers,  constant  gain  amplifier,
constant  noise  figure  amplifier,  low  noise  amplifier,  power  amplifiers,  combining
networks. (9 lectures)
Oscillators  and  Voltage  Controlled  Oscillators:  Basic  topologies  VCO  and  definition  of
phase  noise.  Noise-power  trade-off,  quadrature  and  single-sideband  generators.  (5
Mixers:  Mixer  Noise  figure,  port  to  port  feed-through,  single-balanced  and  double
balanced mixers. (4 lectures)
Introduction  to  Phase-Locked  Loops:Type  I  and  Type  II  PLL‟s,  PLL  Non-idealities.  (4
1.  Lee,  T.  H.,  (1997),  The  Design  of  CMOS  Radio-Frequency  Integrated  Circuits,
Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press
2.  Razavi, B., (2014), RF Microelectronics, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education
3.  Gonzalez,  G.,  (1996),  Microwave  Transistor  Amplifiers:  Analysis  and  Design,  2nd
1.  Chatterjee,  S.,  RF  Integrated  Circuits,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, IIT Delhi,
2.  High  Speed  Communication  Circuits,  MIT,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-
Preparatory Course Materials
1.  Lathi,  B.  P.,  and  Ding,  Z.,  (2017),  Modern  Digital  and  Analog  Communications
Systems, 4th edition, Oxford university press
2.  Pozar, D. M., (2011), Microwave Engineering, 4th edition, New York, NY, USA: Wiley
Adaptive Signal Processing
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV Year), M.Tech., Ph.D
Prerequisite  Digital Signal Processing
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide students an understanding of fundamental issues related to adjustment of weights
of processing filters based on requirement and signal characteristics.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design various optimal filters such as Least Squares filters and its variants.
2.  Apply the adaptive filtering techniques in various application areas such as speech, image,
and video processing.
Introduction: Applications of Adaptive Signal Processing (1 Lecture)
Review of linear and non-linear estimation theory: Properties of estimators, estimators of
mean and variance, least square estimation, loss function, weighted least squares (6 lectures)
Signal modelling, Optimal filtering, Adaptive filtering as an extension of the optimal least mean
square error case Adaptive algorithms: Linear non-parametric signal models, parametric pole-
zero signal models, optimum signal estimation, linear mean square error estimation, optimum
FIR and IIR response filters, derivation of LMS algorithm, convergence of weight vector,
recursive least square adaptive filters, RLS algorithm (15 lectures)
Adaptive equalization and echo cancellation:  structures and adaptive algorithms, double talk
detection, Howling suppression, stereophonic acoustic echo cancellation (5 lectures)
Adaptive lattice filters: Forward and backward linear prediction, derivation of lattice structure,
lattice joint process estimator, autoregressive modeling, gradient adaptive lattice, RLS
adaptive lattice, RLS lattice recursions  (10 lectures)
Application to image processing, video processing, and communications (spread spectrum
techniques) (5 lectures)
1.  Haykin, S., (1986), Adaptive filter theory, Prentice Hall
2.  Widrow, B. and Stearns, S. D., (1984), Adaptive Signal Processing, Prentice Hall
1.  Chakraborty  M.,  Adaptive  Signal  Processing,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Kharagpur,
Preparatory Course Material
1. Dutta Roy, S. C., Digital Signal Processing, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Electrical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117102060/
Image sensor Design and Applications
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech IV year, M. Tech, Ph. D.
Prerequisite  Analog electronics
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the design and analysis of CMOS image sensors.
2.  Explain the readout electronics behind the camera.
3.  Provide  the  knowledge  of  performance  measures  and  tradeoffs  involved  in  the  camera
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design and develop CMOS image sensor including the sensing mechanism and signal chain
of the camera.
2.  Implement different techniques required for high dynamic range camera, high frame rate,
low noise camera, time of flight 3D cameras etc.
Introduction  to  photodetectors:Photodiode  and  photogate,  photocurrent,  dark  current,
quantum efficiency, spectral response and photo-conversion principles (5 Lectures).
Introduction  to  Charge  coupled  devices  and  CMOS  image  sensors:  Operation,  performance
metrics,  noise  and  its  types,  spatial  resolution  and  modulation  transfer  function.    Concept  of
exposure  triangle  including  aperture,  shutter  speed  and  ISO,  color  filters,  Bayer  pattern,
Shutters  and  its  types,  motion  blur,  hard  and  soft  reset,  Introduction  to  imaging  optics  (8
Readout electronics and image sensor characterization:Readout and its types, design tradeoffs
and challenges, analysis of the signal path behind the camera, variable gain amplifiers, double
sampling circuits,  ADCs, reference and clock generation circuits, floor planning, placement and
routing, image sensor characterization (15 Lectures).
Emerging  trends:High  speed  cameras,  high  dynamic  range  cameras,  3D  cameras  for
background light subtraction and depth estimation. Concepts of Polarization imaging, low light
imaging,  machine  vision,  backside  illumination,  stacked  technology,  target  tracking  (10
Color Processing: Color demosaicing, color correction and white balance (2 Lectures).
Applications:Smart city, health care, autonomous vehicles, sports, motion detection,
surveillance (2 Lectures).
1.  Ohta, J., (2007), Smart CMOS Image sensors and Applications, CRC press.
1.  O. Y. Pecht, and Cummings, R. E., (2004), CMOS imagers: From Photo transduction to
2.  Albert J.P. Theuwissen, Harvest imaging, https://harvestimaging.com/
3.  Albert J.P. Theuwissen, Image sensors blog http://image-sensors-world.blogspot.com/
Preparatory Course Material
1.  IEEE Journal of Solid State circuits
Digital image and video processing lab
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  1–0–2 [2]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Fourier analysis
The Instructor will:
1.  introduce  student  to  importance  of  motion  in  videos  and  motion  estimation
2.  discuss  applications  such  as  display  modeling,  video  compression,  and  visual
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  implement models for that affect visual signal display and perception
2.  meaningfully exploit the concept of spatio-temporal information in videos to develop
applications in the broad area of multimedia signal processing
Introduction:basic concepts of visual signal capture (both images and videos),  relation
of pixels to physical luminance (1 lecture)
Display  modeling:  concept  of  dynamic  range,  color  correction,  modeling  of  a
conventional  display  (gamma  correction,  Weber  law),  HDR  display  model  (3
Motion  estimation  in  video  signals:Concepts  of  2D  motion,  and  introduction  to
techniques such as optical flow, block-based and pel-recursive methods (2 lectures)
Video  compression:  introduction  to  video  coding  standards  (MPEG,  H.26x),  and  their
implementation (4 lectures)
Depth  Image  based  Rendering:  view  synthesis  and  modeling,  aspects  of  perceptual
quality (2 lectures)
Visual saliency modeling: introduction to visual attention in both 2D and omnidirectional
(360-degree) content and basic models (2 lectures)
Lab experiments: for each topic students will implement the corresponding models and
examine the performance through standard metrics (~14 lab experiments)
1.  Tekalp,M., (2015), Digital Video Processing, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall
2.  Bovik,  A.,  (2009),  The  Essential  Guide  to  Video  Processing,  1st  Edition,  Academic
3.  Woods,J.W.,  (2006),  Multidimensional  Signal,  Image  and  Video  Processing  and
Coding, 2nd Edition, Academic Press
4.  Wang, Yao, (2003), Video Processing and Communications, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall
1.  Gupta,  S.,  Digital  Video  Signal  Processing,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Jagannatham,  A.  K.,  Principles  of  Signals  and  Systems,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Kanpur,
Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit Design
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  1–0–2[2]
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV Year) , M.Tech and PhD
Prerequisite  Analog Electronics, EM Theory
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the students to RF integrated circuit design and measurements.
2.  Introduce the students to various circuits required for communication applications.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design RF circuits using softwares like ADS, HFSS.
2.  Design of integrated circuits at RF-Microwave frequencies.
3.  Implement various circuits required to build a transceiver.
1.  Introduction to ADS and HFSS RF simulators.
2.  Calibration Network Analyzers (SOLT and TRL) / Use of Spectrum Analyzer/Tools
and Tips for RF PCB design.
3.  Characterization of passive components at RF-Microwave frequencies.
4.  Design and Measurement of power combining/dividing networks.
5.  Measurement of RF Amplifier.
6.  Distortion Measurements.
7.  Noise Measurements.
8.  Phase Noise Measurement.
9.  Measurement of Mixers.
10. Load/Source Pull Measurement for large signal characterization.
1.  Lee,  T.  H.,  (1997),  The  Design  of  CMOS  Radio-Frequency  Integrated  Circuits,
Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press
2.  Razavi, B., (2014), RF Microelectronics, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education
3.  Niknejad,  A.  M.,  (2007),  Electromagnetics  for  High-Speed  Analog  and  Digital
Communication Circuits, Cambridge University Press
1.  High  Speed  Communication  Circuits,  MIT,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-
2.  Aniruddhan, S., RF Integrated Circuits, Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian
Institute of Technology Madras,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Pozar, D. M., (2011), Microwave Engineering, 4th Edition, New York, NY, USA: Wiley
Machine Learning for Communications
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Fundamentals  of
machine learning 1
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the area of machine learning in the context of communications
2. Discuss scenarios in the domain of communications where machine learning can  be
a viable alternative to traditional approaches
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply  machine  learning  techniques  (supervised/unsupervised  classification  and
regression) for specific problems in the domain of communications
Review of machine learning techniques as applicable in the area of communications (3
Why and when machine learning can be useful in communication? (2 lectures)
Overview of machine learning in communications (2 lectures)
Machine  learning  for  physical  layer  design:  Adaptive  modulation  and  coding  (AMC),
classical AMC, AMC using support vector machines, k-nearest neighbors, reinforcement
learning (5 lectures)
Channel prediction: prediction of wireless channel features via neural networks, channel
prediction using Recurrent neural networks (3 lectures)
Video communication: introduction to video coding standards (MPEG, H.26x), discussion
of  traditional  algorithms  (motion  compensation,  linear  prediction  etc.),  modern
approaches for video compression using machine learning (8 lectures)
Machine learning for mobile network design: network state prediction, traffic prediction
and  interference  management,  small  cell  clustering in  Hetnet,  user grouping/clustering
in  D2D,  HetNets  for  offloading,  modeling  spatio-temporal  correlations  in  geographical
mobile traffic measurements using CNNs/RNNs (10 lectures)
User mobility analysis: modeling spatial dependencies in sequential data (3 lectures)
Learning based automatic modulation recognition in cognitive radios (2 lectures)
Possible limitations of machine learning methods in communication systems (3 lectures)
1.  Bishop, C. M., (2007), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer
2.  MacKay,  D.J.C.,  (2005),  Information  Theory,  Inference,  and  Learning  Algorithms,
Cambridge University Press
Machine Learning For Communications Emerging Technologies Initiative, IEEE
Machine Learning for Communication lab
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  1–0–2 [2]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Machine learning 1
The Instructor will
1. Introduce students to scenarios in which machine learning methods can be applied
2.  Provide  students  problems in  the  domain  of  communications    and signal processing
where machine learning can  be a viable alternative to traditional approaches
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply  machine  learning  techniques  (supervised/unsupervised  classification  and
regression)  for  specific  problems  in  the  domain  of  communications  and  signal
Why and when machine learning can be useful in communication and signal processing?
User mobility analysis: modeling spatial dependencies in sequential data (2 lectures)
Visual  communication  systems:  application  of  machine  learning  for  video  compression
Machine learning for video quality prediction (3 lectures)
Learning based automatic modulation recognition in cognitive radios (2 lectures)
Smart wireless network management using machine learning (2 lectures)
Possible limitations of machine learning methods in communication systems (2 lectures)
1.  Bishop, C. M., (2007), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer
2.  MacKay,  D.J.C.,  (2005),  Information  Theory,  Inference,  and  Learning  Algorithms,
Cambridge University Press
Self Learning Material
Machine Learning For Communications Emerging Technologies Initiative, IEEE
GNSS Signal Processing
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech., M. Tech., Ph. D.
Prerequisite  Fundamentals  of  Communications  and  Signals
The Instructor will:
1.  Describe  and  analyze  the  signal  processing  of  a  GNSS  receiver,  including  signal
acquisition, tracking and navigation.
2.  Expose  students  to  the  main  vulnerabilities  and  limitations  of  GNSS  technology,
including  interference  sources  such  as  jamming,  unintentional  interferences,
spoofing and ionospheric scintillation.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the basic principles and signal processing tools that are used in satellite-
based navigation for signal acquisition and computation of positioning solutions.
2.    Analyze  the  state  of  the  art  signal  acquisition  methods  and  countermeasures
strategies  for  interference  and  spoofing.  Interpret  anti-jamming  techniques  in  the
context of robust signal processing theory.
Course introduction: positioning is everywhere; GNSS is a key technology; main GNSS
components; GNSS limitations; review of mathematical tools. (3 lectures)
Fundamentals  of  satellite-based  navigation:  historical  remarks  on  navigation;
positioning  concepts;  system  segments;  space  segment;  ground  segment;  user
segment. (4 lectures)
GNSS  signals  in  space:  overview  of  the  main  signal  characteristics:  GPS,  Galileo,
GLONASS,  Beidou,  IRNSS;  focus  on  IRNSS  SPS  and  RS  signal;  BPSK  vs  BOC
modulations. (3 lectures)
GNSS  channel  model:  propagation  delay;  Doppler  effect;  multipath  and  non-line-of-
sight; ionospheric and tropospheric delays. (4 lectures)
GNSS  receiver:  antenna  and  RF  front-end;  signal  sampling;  signal  acquisition  as  a
detection problem; signal tracking as a filtering problem; observables‟ computation. (7
Navigation solution: Code-based positioning; Code  and carrier-based positioning; least
squares  solution;  weighted  least  squares  solution;  Kalman  filtering  solution;  basic
schemes for GNSS/inertial hybridization. (7 lectures)
Vulnerabilities  of  GNSS:
interferences;  spoofing  attacks;  ionospheric  scintillation;  detection  and  mitigation
techniques. (7 lectures)
Indoor  positioning:  basic  measurements;  positioning  approaches:  model-based  versus
model-free methods; hybridization and data fusion; main technologies. (7 lectures)
1.  Betz  J.  W.,  (2015),  Engineering  Satellite-Based  Navigation  and  Timing:  Global
Navigation Satellite Systems, Signals, and Receivers, Wiley-IEEE Press.
2.    Kaplan  E.  and  Hegarty  C.  J.,  (2017),  Understanding  GPS/GNSS:  Principles  and
Applications, Artech House.
3.  Misra  P.  and  Enge  P.,  (2011),  Global  Positioning  System:  Signals,  Measurements,
and    Performance, Ganga-Jamuna Press.
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Zheng,  L.  and  Gallager,  R.,  Principles  of  Digital  Communications  I,  MIT
OpenCourseWare,  Electrical  Engineering  &  Computer  Science,  Massachusetts  Institute
Free Space Optical Communications
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech IV Year, M.Tech. and Ph.D
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of probability, wireless and optical
The Instructor will:
1.  Give a comprehensive introduction of the fundamentals of Free Space Optical (FSO)
2.  Help  students  understand  the  techniques  to  improve  the  performance  of  FSO
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Ability to analyze FSO system performance under various channel impairments.
2.  Ability  to  design  and  simulate  efficient  FSO  links  by  utilizing  the  knowledge  of
mitigation techniques which could be used advanced research.
Fundamentals  of  Free  Space  Optical  (FSO)  communication  systems:  Motivation,
advantages, limitations, applications (3 Lectures)
FSO  components:  FSO  transmitter  and  receiver  structures,  optical  sources,  optical
amplifiers, photodetectors, photodetection techniques (4 Lectures)
FSO  channel  and  noise  modeling:  Different  losses  in  FSO  systems,  atmospheric
turbulence models, pointing errors, noise sources, background radiation (7 Lectures)
Modulation  schemes:  Subcarrier  intensity  modulation,  on-off  keying,  M-ary  pulse
position  modulation  (M-PPM),  differential  PPM,  differential  amplitude  pulse-position
modulation digital pulse interval modulation (6 Lectures)
Performance analysis of FSO systems: BER evaluation of different modulation schemes
under  atmospheric  turbulence  and  pointing  errors,  information  theoretic  limits  of
FSO systems, asymptotic behavior (8 Lectures)
Mitigation  techniques  for  improved  FSO  performance:  Aperture  averaging,  diversity
techniques and MIMO FSO, adaptive optics techniques (10 Lectures)
Miscellaneous: Physical layer security in FSO (4 Lectures)
1.  Ghassemlooy,  Z.,  Popoola,  W.,  and  Rajbhandari,  S.,  (2019),  Optical  Wireless
Communications:  System  and  Channel  Modelling  with  MATLAB®,  2nd  Edition,  CRC
2.  Djordjevic,  I. B., (2018),  Advanced  Optical and Wireless  Communications Systems,
1st Edition, Springer
3.  Majumdar,  A.  K.,  (2015),  Advanced  Free  Space  Optics-  A  System  Approach,  1st
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Kumar, P. K., Optical Communications, Department of Electrical Engineering, Indian
Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117104127/
Real Time Communications
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech., M. Tech. and Ph. D.
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce  QoS  and  design  criteria  for  real  time  communication  for  wired  and
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design  protocols  and  links  for  real  time  communication  over  wired  and  wireless
Introduction: Type of network, Quality of Service, Traffic Categorization (4 Lectures)
Real-Time  Communication  in  Wired  Networks:  RTC  in  LAN,  Soft  and  Hard  read  time
communication,  RTC  over  internet,  Routing,  resource  reservation,  traffic  shaping  and
policing,  scheduling,  Real-Time  Communication  Via  Ethernet  in  Industrial  Automation
Environments (14 Lectures)
Real-Time Communication in Packet-Switched Networks: Real-Time Scheduling Theory,
Traffic  Characterization,  Connection-Level  Processing,  Per-Packet  Processing,
Scheduler-based  Methods,  Application-level  Characteristics,  Connection-level  Issues  (7
Real-Time  Communication  over  Unreliable  Wireless  Links:  A  necessary  and  sufficient
condition for feasibility, Utility maximization, broadcasting real-time flows with network
coding and xor coding (7 Lectures)
Real-time  communication  protocols:  Token-ring  networks,  Broadcast  networks,  Other
networks,  Real-time  support  in  the  higher  layers,  Blink  protocol  for  Real-Time
Communication for Wireless Cyber-Physical Systems (10 Lectures)
1.  Mall  R.,  Real-time  Systems,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Computer  Science  and
2. Decotignie J.-D., Ethernet Based Real-Time and Industrial Communications, Proc. of
the IEEE, vol. 93, issue 6, pp.  1102-17, 2005.
3.  Hou I. and Kumar P. R., "Real-time communication over unreliable wireless links: a
theory  and  its  applications,"  in  IEEE  Wireless  Communications,  vol.  19,  no.  1,  pp.
4.    Hanssen  F.,  &  Jansen  P.G.,  (2003),  Real-time  communication  protocols:  an
Backhaul Networks for Wireless
B. Tech., M. Tech. and Ph. D.
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the communication backhaul networks for future wireless systems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  concepts  such  as  caching,  mmWave  backhauling,  channel  aggregation  and
perform analysis and optimization of backhaul technologies.
Introduction:  Backhaul  networks-  Wired  solutions,  Wireless  solutions;  The  Communication  Haul
Challenge, Evolution of  Backhaul networks  -  LTE mobile backhaul, Multi-RAT and multi-operator
backhaul, LTE-A backhaul, Future RAN and backhaul evolution (3 lectures)
Spectral coexistence for next generation wireless backhaul networks: Research trends in wireless
backhaul, Hybrid satellite-terrestrial backhaul, Case studies, Future recommendations (4 lectures)
Control  data  separation  and  its  implications  on  backhaul  networks:    RAN  design  in  legacy
standards,    5G  RAN  with  control/data  separation,    Main  challenge  for  backhaul  networks  (7
Backhaul  relaxation  through  caching:  Background  on  content  caching,  Caching  in  5G  wireless
systems, Energy efficiency and caching in 5G systems (5 lectures)
Backhauling  5G  Small  Cells  with  Massive‐MIMO‐Enabled  mmWave  Communication:  mmWave
Communication,  mmWave  Backhauling,  Research  Challenges  for  Backhauling  in  5G  Networks,
Massive‐MIMO‐based mmWave Backhauling System (12 lectures)
Analysis  and  Optimization  for  Heterogeneous  Backhaul  Technologies:  Backhaul  Model,  Backhaul
Packet Delay Analysis, Backhaul Deployment Cost Analysis, Backhaul‐aware BS Association Policy
Multiband  and  Multichannel  Aggregation  for  High‐speed  Wireless  Backhaul:  Challenges  and
Solutions,  Multiband  and  Multichannel  Aggregation,  Spectrally  Efficient  Channel  Aggregation,
Practical System Examples (6 lectures)
1.  Saidul  Huq  K.  M.  and  Rodriguez  J.,  (2016),  Backhauling  /  Fronthauling  for  Future  Wireless
2. Imran M. A., Zaidi S. A. R., and Shakir M. Z., Access, (2017), Fronthaul and Backhaul Networks
for 5G & Beyond, IET Press.
1.  IEEE  Best  Readings  in  Backhaul  and  Fronthaul:  Communications,  Networking,  and  Signal
2.ETSI 5G WirelessBackhaul/X-Haul,
Applied Optimization for Wireless
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech., M. Tech. and Ph. D.
Prerequisite  Basic  knowledge  of  -  Calculus,  Probability,
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose students to the fundamental tools and techniques in modern optimization.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply Convex Optimization techniques to various aspects of wireless communication
Introduction to properties of Vectors, Norms, Positive Semi-Definite, matrices, Gaussian
Random Vectors (6 Lectures)
Introduction  to  Convex  Optimization,  Convex  sets,  Hyperplanes  Half-spaces  etc.
Application: Power constraints in Wireless Systems (6 Lectures)
Convex  Concave  Functions,  Examples,  Conditions
for  Convexity.  Application:
Beamforming  in  Wireless  Systems,  Multi-User  Wireless,  Cognitive  Radio  Systems  (6
Convex  Optimization  problems,  Linear  Program,  Application:  Power  allocation  in  Multi-
cell cooperative OFDM
QCQP,  SOCP  Problems,  Application:  Channel  shortening  for  Wireless  Equalization,
Robust Beamforming in Wireless Systems (8 Lectures)
Duality Principle and KKT Framework for Optimization. Application: Water-filling power
allocation, Optimization for MIMO Systems, OFDM Systems and MIMO-OFDM systems (7
Optimization  for  signal  estimation,  LS,  WLS,  Regularization.  Application:  Wireless
channel estimation (2 Lectures)
Application:  Cooperative  Communication,  Optimal  Power  Allocation  for  cooperative,
Communication (2 Lectures)
Application: Radar for target detection, Array Processing, MUSIC, MIMO-Radar Schemes
for Enhanced Target Detection (2 Lectures)
Application: Autonomous self-organization in dynamic wireless networks (3 Lectures)
1.  Boyd  S.  P.  and  Vandenberghe  L.,  (2004),  Convex  Optimization,  Cambridge
1.  Jagannatham  A.,  Applied  Optimization  for  Wireless,  Machine  Learning,  Big  Data,
NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of
Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/noc/individual_course.php?id=noc18-ee31
2.    Llorca  J.,  Milner  S.  D.  and    Davis  C.  C.,  "A  convex  optimization  method  for
autonomous self-organization in dynamic wireless networks," MILCOM 2008  - 2008
IEEE Military Communications Conference, San Diego, CA, pp. 1-8, 2008.
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. (IV Year), M.Tech, and PhD
Prerequisite  Electromagnetic theory
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the students with the phenomenon and circuit characteristics at mm-wave
2.  Familiarize students with various guiding structures, antennas, and switches at mm-
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the design problems and challenges at mm-wave frequencies.
2.  Have  the  knowledge  about  the  various  mm-wave  guiding  structures,  switches,  and
Introduction  to  millimeter-wave  technology:mm-wave  frequency  bands,  atmospheric
losses,  application  of  mm-waves,  Propagation  and  path  losses,  Friis  equation,  link
budget and power budget calculation. (4 lectures)
Novel Guiding structures for mmwave circuits: losses in planar circuits (conductor loss,
leakage  loss,  dielectric  loss,  surface  waves),  Air  filled  waveguides,  dielectric  guides,
NRD guide, substrate integrated waveguides (SIW), Substrate Integrated NRD (SINRD),
Gap Waveguide, dielectric image line, planar air filled waveguide, Waveguide and planar
resonators,  Dielectric  resonators,  loaded,  unloaded,  and  external  Q-factors,  SPST  and
SPDT switches. (8 lectures)
Beam-forming  network:Introduction  to  mmwave  circuits:  hybrid  coupler,  crossover,
phase shifter, butler matrix, nolen matrix, Rotman lens. (5 lectures)
Millimeter  wave  antennas:Problem  with  traditional  antennas,  horn  antenna,  dielectric
rod antenna, Leaky wave antenna, waveguide slot array, chain antenna array, on chip
antennas,  monopulse  radar  network,  transmitarray,  reflectarray,  millimeterwave  over
the  air  (OTA)  measurement  testing:  Total  Radiated  Power  (TRP),  Total  Isotropic
Sensitivity  (TIS),  Effective  Isotropic  Radiated  Power  (EIRP),  Effective  Isotropic
Sensitivity (EIS). (10 lectures)
Packaging  and  interconnects:Challenges  in  packaging,  design  of  interconnects  at  mm-
wave frequencies, bondwire interconnections, ball-grid array. (3 lectures)
Millimeterwave  Active  circuits:mmwave  CMOS  circuits:  LNA,Oscillator,  VCO,  Power
Amplifier, Frequency Synthesizer, SoC for mmwave RADAR, FinFET (10 Lectures)
Case Studies: mmwave transciever for 5G, industrial radar sensor (2 lectures)
1.  Koul,  S.K.,  (1997),  Millimeter  Wave  and  Optical  Dielectric  Integrated  Guides  and
2.  Liu,  D.,  Gaucher,  B.,  Pfeiffer,  U.,  and  Grzyb,  J.,  (2009),  Advanced  millimeter  wave
3.  Hueber, G., and Niknejad, A. (Eds.). (2019), Millimeter-Wave Circuits for 5G and
Radar (The Cambridge RF and Microwave Engineering Series), Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
1.  Mandal,  M.  K.,  Millimeter-wave  technology,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Indian  Institute
of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117105139/
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Pozar, D. M., (2011), Microwave Engineering, 4th ed. New York, NY, USA: Wiley
Selected Topics in Communication I
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  1–0–0 [1]
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Wireless Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose the students to the latest upcoming fields in the area of communications
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply  the  knowledge  of  recent  topics    in  the  field  of  communications  to  specific
areas of research
The  topic  clouds  for  the  course  include  some  contemporary  topics  in  communications
(but not restricted to) mm-Wave wireless communications, wireless networks, quantum
information processing, molecular communications. The topics may be further updated
according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Selected Topics in Communication II
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  2–0–0 [2]
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Wireless Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose the students to the latest upcoming fields in the area of communications
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply  the  knowledge  of  recent  topics    in  the  field  of  communications  to  specific
areas of research
The  topic  clouds  for  the  course  include  some  contemporary  topics  in  communications
(but not restricted to) mm-Wave wireless communications, wireless networks, quantum
information processing, molecular communications. The topics may be further updated
according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Selected Topics in Communication III
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Wireless Communications
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose the students to the latest upcoming fields in the area of communications
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the knowledge of recent topics  in the field of communications to specific
areas of research
The  topic  clouds  for  the  course  include  some  contemporary  topics  in  communications
(but not restricted to) mm-Wave wireless communications, wireless networks, quantum
information processing, molecular communications. The topics may be further updated
according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Physical Layer Security
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech. (IV Year), M. Tech., Ph. D.
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Information Theory
The Instructor will:
1.  Familiarize  the  students  with  the  fundamental  concepts  of  information  theoretic
security such as perfect secrecy, wiretap channels, secrecy capacity etc.
2.  Help  students  understand  the  proofs  of  fundamental  theorems  in  information
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Acquire the current state of research on physical layer security
2.    Apply  the  physical  layer  security  techniques  learnt  to  formulate  a  problem  for
research and solve them in a comprehensive manner
Fundamentals  of  Physical  Layer  Security:  Information-theoretic  secrecy,  secret
communication over noisy channels, Secret-key generation from noisy channels
Coding  for  secrecy:  Coding  for  wiretap  channels,  Polar  wiretap  codes,  LDPC  codes  for
the Gaussian wiretap channel
Physical  Layer  Security  Techniques:  Cooperative  jamming,  MIMO  signal  processing
algorithms  for  enhanced  physical  layer  security,  secrecy  through  intentional
uncertainty, secure modulation schemes, secure
Applications  to  Contemporary  Communication  Systems:  secure  waveforms  for  5G,
security of massive MIMO and mm-Wave cellular systems, security in IoT and massive
machine type communications: issues and challenges
1.  Bloch, M. and Barros, J., (2011), Physical-Layer Security: From Information Theory
to Security Engineering, 1st Edition, Cambridge University Press.
2.  Zhou,  X.,  Song,  L.,  and  Zhang,  Y.,  (2013),  Physical  Layer  Security  in  Wireless
Communications, 1st Edition, CRC Press.
3.  Duong,  T.  Q.,  Zhou,  X.,  and  Poor,  H.  V.,  (2016),  Trusted  Communications  with
Physical Layer Security for 5G and Beyond, 1st Edition, IET.
Self Learning Material
1.  Liu,  R.  and  Trappe,  W.,  (2010),  Securing  Wireless  Communications  at  the  Physical
Layer, 1st Edition, Springer.
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Basics of signals and systems
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce  computational  techniques  and  aspects  of  image  capture,  processing  and
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Implement end-to-end imaging systems that can capture and process visual data in
a desired manner
Introduction and digital photography pipeline (3 lectures)
Pinholes and lenses, Photographic optics and exposure, High dynamic range imaging,
tonemapping and bilateral filtering (7 lectures)
Gradient-domain image processing, Focal stacks and lightfields (6 lectures)
Deconvolution, Camera models and calibration (6 lectures)
Two-view  geometry,  Radiometry  and  reflectance,  Photometric  stereo,  Light  transport
Computational light transport, Stereo and structured light (6 lectures)
Time-of-flight imaging, Non-line-of-sight imaging, Fourier optics (8 lectures)
1.  Szeliski,  R.,  (2010),  Computer  vision:  Algorithms  and  Applications,  1st  Edition,
2.  Lukac,  R.,  (2010),  Computational  Photography:  Applications  and  Methods,  1st
Edition, CRC Press
Self Learning Material
1.  Gkioulekas,  I.,  Computational  Photography,  Fall  2019,  Department  of  Computer
Science, Carnegie Melon University, http://graphics.cs.cmu.edu/courses/15-463/
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.Tech. IV Year, M. Tech., Ph.D.
Prerequisite  Fourier analysis
The Instructor will:
1.  introduce  concepts in multimedia communication systems  with focus  on technology
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Implement and improve upon recent standards in multimedia communication
Introduction to multimedia signals:capture, storage and representation of image, video
and  audio  signals.  Analog-to-digital  conversion,  sampling  and  aliasing,  brief
discussion on graphics and text content (4 lectures)
Multimedia  compression:  the  need  for  compression  and  brief  history  of  standards  (3
MPEG  7  and  MPEG  21:  evolution  from  MPEG  1,2  and  MPEG  4,  multimedia  content
management  and  description  standards,  applications  and  implementations  (5
Introduction  and  Evolution  of  video  coding  standards:  the  need  for  continuous
improvements in standards (2 lectures)
H.264/MPEG-4  AVC:  intra  and  inter  frames,  mode  decision,  I,  P,  B  frames,  prediction,
motion Compensation (6 lectures)
HEVC/H.265:  the  need  for  H.265,  concept  of  coding  tree  units  (CTU),  adaptive
macroblock sizes, directional modes, scalability to higher resolutions (5 lectures)
Scalable  video  coding:  SVC  (annex  G  ext.  of  H.264/MPEG-4  AVC)  and  SHVC  (scalable
ext. of HEVC) (5 lectures)
HDR  and  WCG  coding:  backward  compatilbity  with  single  and  dual  layer,  display
adaptation (5 lectures)
Multiview  and  adaptive  coding:  MVC  Extension  of  H.264/AVC,  introduction  to  MPEG-
DASH (3 lectures)
Future standards: Versatile video coding (VVC) or H.266, 360-video specific standard,
perceptual  video  compression,  deep  learning  to  enhance  compression  performance  (4
Self Learning Material
1.  Motion  Pictures  Experts  Group  (MPEG),
ISO/IEC  JTC  1/SC  29/WG  11,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Katsaggelos,  A.K.,  Fundamentals  of  Image  and  Video  Processing,  Coursera,
Northwestern University, https://www.coursera.org/learn/digital
2.  Wiegand, T., Sullivan, G.J., Bjontegaard, G., Luthra, A., Overview of the H.264/AVC
video coding standard, IEEE, 2003
Speech and Audio Signal Processing
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B.  Tech,  M.Tech.  -Ph.D.    Dual  Degree  (Comm.
Prerequisite  Digital Signal Processing
The Instructor will:
1. Introduce the theory of signal processing applications on speech, to give information
about  human  speech  production  and  perception,  voice  production  mechanism,  and
human perception systems.
2.  Provide  an  understanding  of  time  frequency  analysis  of  speech,  Linear  Prediction,
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Analyze digital signals, e.g., audio signals, in the time or frequency domain
2. Implement widely-used algorithms for speech analysis and speech processing in the
frequency or time domain.
Introduction to the properties of speech and audio signal processing  (2 Lectures)
Basic Methods of audio signal processing:Frequency analysis methods, Auto correlation
Function(ACF),  Power  Spectral  Density(PSD),  Measurement  of  room  impulse  response
and reverberation times (8 Lectures)
Methods  for  codebook  processing:  Principle,  Training  of  codebooks,  Efficient  codebook
Audio  coding:  Prediction  coding,  line  spectral  frequencies(LSF),  code  excited  linear
prediction(CELP) (8 lectures)
Speaker  detection  based  on  MFCC  combined  with  LDA  and  PCA,  Speech  recognition,
Acoustic Classification Methods: Bayes Methods, HMM, GMM (12 Lectures)
Music Signal Processing, e.g. beat detection. (4 Lectures)
1.  Rabiner,  L.  and  Schafer,  R.,  (2011),  Theory  and  Applications  of  Speech  Processing,
2.  Rabiner,  L.  and  Schafer,  R.,  (2007),  Introduction  to  Digital  speech  Processing,
3. Gold, B., and Morgan, N., (2011), Speech and Audio Signal Processing, John Wiley.
1.  Hegde,  R.  M.,  Signal  Processing  Techniques  for  Speech  Recognition,  NPTEL
Course  Material,  Department  of  Electronics  &  Communication  Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,  https://nptel.ac.in/syllabus/117104023/
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Dutta  Roy  S.  C.,  Digital  Signal  Processing,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech. -Ph.D.  Dual Degree (Comm. Engg.)
Prerequisite  Digital Signal Processing
The Instructor Will:
1. Introduce the idea of wavelets, and the related notions of time-frequency analysis, of time-
scale analysis, and to describe the manner in which technical developments related to wavelets
have led to numerous applications
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the relationship between wavelets and multiresolution systems
2.  Apply the wavelets for different real time application
Introduction  to  Multiresolution  Analysis  (MRA),  Vector  spaces,  Haar  scaling  function,  Haar
wavelet (8 Lectures)
Two-band perfect reconstruction filter bank,  Conditions for perfect reconstruction in a general
two-band perfect reconstruction filter bank (8 Lectures)
Daubechies family of filter banks (6 Lectures)
Time-bandwidth  product  and  its  properties,  Uncertainty  principle  of  signal  processing,  Short-
time Fourier transform (STFT), Continuous wavelet transform (CWT), Admissibility condition for
wavelets (12 Lectures)
Axioms of MRA, Proof of Theorem of MRA (5 Lectures)
5/3 filter bank used in JPEG 2000 (3 Lecture)
1.  Y. T. Chan, (1993), Wavelet Basics, Kluwer Publishers, Boston.
2.  Gerald Kaiser, (1992), A Friendly Guide to Wavelets, Birkhouser, New York.
3.  Daubechies,  I.,  (1993),  Ten  Lectures  on  Wavelets,  Society  for  Industrial  and  Applied
1. Gadre V. M., Adv. Digital Signal Processing- Multirate and Wavelets, Department of Electrical
Preparatory Course Material
1. Dutta Roy S. C., Digital Signal Processing, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Electrical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117102060/
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech., M. Tech. and Ph. D.
Prerequisite  Signals and Systems, Random Signal Analysis
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce  development  of  compressed  sensing  and  matrix  completion,  focusing  on
the  design  and  analysis  of  algorithms  to  recover  data  from  its  compressed  and/or
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Use signal processing techniques to solve undetermined linear systems.
Sparse  representation:  Sparse  representation  in  over-complete  basis,  Uniqueness  and
uncertainty principles, l0 minimization and l1 minimization (7 Lectures)
Model  selection  in linear  regression:  Prediction  risk,  l0-penalized  regression  and  Lasso,
Risk inflation, Minimax risk for sparse vectors (7 Lectures)
Lasso  algorithms  and  extensions:  Proximal  gradient  methods,  Nesterov  accelerated
methods, Group lasso and elastic net (7 Lectures)
Compressed sensing and sparse recovery: Restricted isometry property (RIP), A RIPless
theory, Golfing scheme, Phase transition and convex geometry (7 Lectures)
Low-rank matrix recovery: Spectral method, Nuclear norm minimization (4 Lectures)
Super-resolution and spectral estimation: Model mismatch issue in compressed sensing,
Matrix  pencil  approach,  Atomic  norm  minimization,  Connection  to  low-rank  matrix
completion (10 Lectures)
1.Hastie T., Tibshirani R. and Wainwright M., (2015), Statistical  learning with sparsity:
the Lasso and generalizations, CRC.
2.  Foucart  S.  and  Rauhut  H.,  (2013),  A  mathematical  introduction  to  compressive
1.  Compressive Sensing resources, Rice University, http://dsp.rice.edu/cs/
Selected Topics in Signal Processing I
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  1–0–0 [1]
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose  the  students  to  the  latest  upcoming  fields  in  the  area  of  signal
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the knowledge of recent topics  in the field of signal processing to specific
areas of research
The topics may be further updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Selected Topics in Signal Processing II
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  2–0–0 [2]
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose  the  students  to  the  latest  upcoming  fields  in  the  area  of  signal
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the knowledge of recent topics  in the field of signal processing to specific
areas of research
The topics may be further updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Selected Topics in Signal Processing III
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1.  Expose  the  students  to  the  latest  upcoming  fields  in  the  area  of  signal
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the knowledge of recent topics  in the field of signal processing to specific
areas of research
The topics may be further updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Department  Electrical Engineering
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Offered for  B. Tech., M.Tech., and Ph.D
Prerequisite  Elementary knowledge of Information Theory
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce basic principles of data compression methods
2.  Familiarize students with the advances in data compression methods
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Implement some of the existing compression methods
2.  Contribute in developing application-specific such methods
Basic  Techniques:Run  length  coding,  sampling  and  quantization,  some  statistical
methods such Huffman, Arithmetic, Golomb, and QM Coder(4 lectures)
Dictionary  Methods:String  compression,  Lemple  and  ziv  methods  and  some  of  their
variants. Zip and Gzip (4 Lectures)
Image and Video Coding:Concept of spatial and temporal redundancies, Predictive and
transform based methods for Lossless and Lossy Image compression, Lossless Medical
Image compression standards, Some still image compression standards such JPEG
Baseline, JPEG-LS, JPEG 2000, Video Coding, Block matching and computational issues,
MPEGs, Compression standards for 3D TV (18 Lectures)
Audio Compression: Human Auditory system, A-Law and mu-Law companding, Adaptive
DPCM and computational issues, Delta modulation, Audio and Speech compression,
MPEG-1 audio coding (14 Lectures)
Case studies: Current needs in Image, video, and text compression (2 Lectures)
1.  Khalid, S., (2006), Introduction to Data Compression, Elsevier
2.  Solomon, D., (2007), Data Compression, The complete Reference, Springer
1.  Sengupta,  S.,  Digital  Voice  and  Picture  Communication,  NPTEL  Course  Material,
Department  of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Communication  Engineering,  Indian
Institute of Technology Kharagpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/117105081/
1.  Lathi,  B.  P.,  Ding,  Z.,  Gupta,  H.  M.,    Modern  Digital  And  Analog  Communication
Systems,  Chapter  12  Introduction  to  Information  Theory:  Fourth  Edition,  Oxford