BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The vision of the Department of Physics is to become a globally renowned Academic Hub of Physics for Quality
Education, excellence in Scientific Research and Technology Innovation with High Societal and Strategic Impact
by excelling in fundamental knowledge and applications of Physics blended with Engineering through curricular
and co-curricular activities. In line with this vision, the Department offers an undergraduate program in Physics
to  attract  highly  motivated  students  interested  in  basic  science  and  cutting-edge  technologies  in  the  broad
discipline of physics blended with engineering and wish for a flexible program to consider a variety of challenging
career paths through capability-linked specializations in Energy, Photonics and Quantum Technologies.
The  program  provides  strong  fundamentals  in  basic  sciences  and  mathematics  that  are  critical  in  developing
analytical thinking and form the basis of the diverse tools used in fundamental and applied physics linked with
engineering problems to innovate, design, and develop future technologies. The engineering design component is
integrated  throughout  the  curriculum,  motivating  and  familiarizing  students  with  real-world  engineering
challenges  and  equipping  them  with  the  essential  technical  skills  for  problem-solving.  Strong  theoretical
foundations and hands-on exposure at the early stage of the BS Physics program are supplemented by a spectrum
of  fundamental  and  applied  physics  concepts  ranging  from  statistical  physics  with  emphasis  on  data-driven
analysis, modern physics including quantum technologies targeting future communication, computational physics
with  a  focus  on  current  trends  in  machine  learning  and  artificial  intelligence,  condensed  matter  physics  with
emphasis on next-generation materials and devices for future electronics, energy materials and devices, terahertz
physics and photonics, fundamental and applied plasma for various applications. Further, the program’s design
projects, and laboratory experiments develop additional problem-solving skills and practical experience.
One of the key salient features of the BS Physics program at the IIT Jodhpur is that the curriculum offers enormous
flexibility  to  students  for  pursuing  capability-linked  specializations  of  their  choice.  The  Department’s  core
specializations are designed to enable students to lead future technological innovations addressing the emerging
industrial  and  societal  challenges  in  various  domains  of  Energy,  Photonics  and  Quantum  Technologies.  The
students  can  choose  any  of  the  specializations  mentioned  above  depending  on  their  interests.  The  in-depth
understanding  of  the  concepts  and  technical  skills  acquired  through  these  program  specializations  will  enable
graduates to play a vital role in advancing the technologies such as Flexible Electronics, Green Energy, Terahertz
Technology/Communications, Quantum Communications, Smart Energy for smart cities/distributed applications
in rural/remote areas, and Smart Healthcare, etc.
Another distinct feature of the program is the provision for minors in Entrepreneurship. This unique feature will
allow students to pursue diverse and challenging career options. The curriculum also offers numerous options that
enable  students  to  gain  industrial  experience  through  collaborative  industrial  projects  at  industries  and
entrepreneurship experience at the Institute's Incubation Center.
2.  Objectives of the Program
The program aims at imparting theoretical foundations and practical skills in fundamental and applied physics
blended with engineering applications. It prepares graduates for the following potential career options:
●  An academic path to enter the graduate program, conduct basic and application-oriented advanced
scientific research with a broad range of applications, and eventually pursue research or academic
●  An industrial path to take up the role of a technical leader through lifelong learning.
●  An entrepreneurial path to apply the acquired knowledge to develop new products and initiate a Deep
Tech Start-up Company.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
3.   Expected graduate attributes
The Graduates of the UG program in Physics are expected to have the following attributes:
Strong foundations of fundamental as well as applied concepts of physics enabling to excel in physics-
●  Ability to acquire new knowledge of physics and integrate with engineering concepts to create new and
innovative technologies for current and future applications.
●  Ability to apply critical scientific thinking and engineering skills to identify, formulate, and solve complex
problems encountered in applied areas blended with engineering practices.
●  Ability  to  apply  principles  of  physics  in  the  domain  of  Energy  materials  and  devices  with  a  focus  on
generation, storage, and management.
●  Ability to engage and actively participate in the upcoming areas of Quantum Information and related
research domains of Quantum Technologies.
●  Preparedness  to  participate
in  future  technological  developments
in  photonics  and  optical
communications beyond 5G including Terahertz technology.
●  Ability  to  compete  effectively  in  a  world  of  rapid  technological  advancements  and  assume  leadership
roles within academic, industrial, or entrepreneurial environments in the broad context of fundamental
and applied physics blended with engineering skills.
●  They will be aware of ethical issues, societal needs, and problems and conduct themselves as
4.  Learning outcomes
The Graduates of the UG program in Physics will be able:
●  To  acquire  knowledge  of  fundamental  and  applied  physics  principles  along  with  the  required
understanding of computing, mathematics, and engineering.
●  To create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and fundamental physics tools to solve
complex engineering problems with an understanding of the limitations through laboratory exercises and
●  To  apply  the  concepts  of  mathematics,  physics  including  Quantum  technologies  and  advanced
computing tools, to design complex engineering systems containing hardware and software (including
Quantum algorithms) modules.
●  To acquire knowledge of fundamental and advanced concepts of Photonics and Terahertz technologies
for communications, devices towards medical applications, sensing, quantum technologies, spectroscopy,
●  To  gain  an  in-depth  understanding  of  concepts  of  materials  and  devices  for  energy  generation  and
storage, integration of energy sub-systems and next generation communications.
●  To perform a critical literature review and patent landscaping for innovative research.
●  To understand professional ethics and social responsibilities.
●  To develop technical presentation skills and communicate effectively.
●  To develop an attitude for product design and entrepreneurial activities.
5.  New skill sets targeted
Physics BS students explore subjects critical to advancement in today’s needs-from everyday common know-how
to critical problems in different inter/multi-disciplinary domains using the fundamental and applied physics
knowledge blended for present and future complex issues/challenges. The acquired knowledge will be helpful
in future technologies, including:
●  Quantum technologies for future Quantum communication and computation
●  Terahertz optics, optical fiber communication, and photonics for 5G and beyond communications
●  Next-generation energy materials and devices.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
6.  Proposed Specialization Areas
1.  Advanced Energy Materials
3.  Quantum Technologies
7.  Program Structures
Programme Core (P)
Programme Compulsory (PC) + BS project
Institute Core (I)
Programme Linked (L)
Engineering and Science
Specialization Core (SC)
Specialization Elective (SE)
Design/Practical Experience (ND)
Note: Students opting for specialization in Entrepreneurship will be required to earn 10 credits through relevant core/electives
courses offered from one of the specializations offered from the department.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
8. Programme Core (PC) Courses
Mechanics - I
Mechanics - II
Mathematical Methods for Physicists
Basic Computational Lab
Applied Computational Lab
EM Waves and Fields
Interaction of Radiation with Matter
Fluids and Plasmas
Applied Optics Lab
Solid State Physics
Semiconducting and Optoelectronic Devices
Thin Film and Material Characterization Lab
Physics of Atoms, Molecules and Nuclei
Nuclear Radiation and Energy
EM and Neutrino Astronomy
Modern Physics Lab
Radiation and Particle Detection Lab
Entrepreneurship for Physicists
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
9. Topic clouds and their mapping with proposed courses
Tensor operations, Simple harmonic,
Damped, and Forced oscillations,
Central force, Dynamics of rigid
bodies, Law of gravitation,
Constraints and their classification,
Lagrange’s equations of motion,
Hamilton’s equations of motion,
Poisson brackets, Galilean
transformations, Basic principles of
Special Matrices, Eigenvalues and
Eigenvectors, Dirac representation,
Origin of quantum theory,
Schrödinger’s equation, Application
of Schrödinger’s equation, Theory of
Angular Momentum, Consequence of
Special Functions such as Dirac-Delta,
Beta, Gamma, Legendre, Bessel and
their Integral expressions,
Classification of PDEs, Laplace and
Poisson equations, Diffusion
equation, Wave equation, Analytic
conditions, Classification of
singularities, Residue theorem,
Contour integration, Taylor and
Linux OS, Shell and Python scripting,
MATLAB, Sci-lab, Mathematica, gnu-
plot, xmgrace, MINUIT, Algorithms,
Flowcharts, I/O statements,
operations, Matrix multiplication,
Matrix inverse, Control statements,
Subroutines, LaTeX and Overleaf,
LaTeX Commands and Environments
Curve Fitting, Numerical integration,
Minimization technique using CG or
SD, Solving ODEs and PDEs, Systems
of linear and nonlinear equations,
Singular Value Decomposition,
Thermodynamics and Statistical
Physics, Monte Carlo integration,
Importance Sampling, Metropolis
algorithm, Detailed Balance, Markov
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
EM Waves and Fields
process, Monte Carlo simulation of
Area calculation, Random walk
problem, Photon gas, Lennard-Jones
Green’s Function in Electro and
Wave Propagation in Media, Fresnel
Coefficients, Geometry of
Waveguides and Resonant Cavities,
Retarded and Advanced Potentials,
Radio Waves and Antennas.
Geometrical Optics: Design of Beam
Expanders, collimator, telescope, FSR
& spacing of etalon. Electrodynamics
(Software/VORPAL): circular and
rectangular geometrical structures,
rectangular waveguide, V number,
Polar pattern & gain of waveguide
antenna, Design & Characterization of
parabolic dish antenna. (7-9
Radioactive decays and related
energy loss mechanisms, Geiger
Muller Counter, Nuclear sensors and
Radiation Safety, Free-electron Laser,
Synchrotron Radiation, Cherenkov,
Particle accelerator, Optical Transition
and Bremsstrahlung Radiation
Lab Component: Plateau region of
GM tube, Radiation Counters:
Gamma-Ray, Beta-Ray counts,
Dosimeter calibration, Gamma-ray
attenuation, Simulation with GEANT
Corpuscular and Wave models of
light, Wave particle duality,
Diffraction and probabilistic
interpretation, Fermat’s principle,
Eikonal equation, Matrix method in
paraxial optics, aberrations, origin of
refractive index, interference by
division of wave-fronts and
amplitudes. Coherence, Fresnel and
Fraunhofer Diffraction, spatial
frequency filtering, Fourier
transforming property of thin lens.
Production and Analysis of polarized
light, Phenomenon of double
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Fluids and Plasmas
Applied Optics Lab
refraction, Walston prism,EM wave
propagation in anisotropic media,
Faraday rotation, Semi-Classical and
Quantum approaches for Optics.
Saha equation, Plasma and relevant
characteristic parameters, Plasma in
nature, Continuity equations,
Equations of state, Fluid
hydrodynamics (MHD), Waves and
Townsend discharge, Electrical
breakdown conditions of gases,
Discharge regimes, DC and RF
Plasma, Cold plasma, Capacitive &
Inductive plasmas, ECR plasma,
Tokamak plasma, Laser produced
plasma, Plasma deposition, Etching,
Plasma applications in health, food,
energy and agriculture.
Lab component: Basics: Plasma
Striations, Paschen Curve and Ion-
Acoustic Waves Experiments. Plasma
Diagnostics: Single Langmuir Probe,
Double Langmuir Probe and Plasma
Spectroscopy.  Applications: Thin film
deposition using Magnetron
Sputtering, Plasma nitriding for
surface hardening, non-equilibrium
cold plasma treatments.
Two-beam interferometer (Michelson
& Mach Zehnder), Fresnel Bi-prism,
2D Diffraction experiments, D1 and
D2 lines of Sodium light, Polarization
study: Brewster Angle measurements,
Malus law, Fiber Optics experiments:
Numerical Aperture and loss
measurements of optical fiber. Light
amplification through fiber,
Holography, Electro-optic effect.
Kinetic theory of gasses, Einstein
theory and Brownian motion, Specific
heat capacity, Virial expansion,
Thermodynamic laws and its
thermodynamic relations, Gibbs and
Helmholtz free energy, Phase
transitions, Black body Radiation,
Kirchhoff’s law, Statistical Physics:
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Solid State Physics
Thin film and
Concepts of Ensemble, Partition
Function and Quantum Statistics
Crystal structure, Reciprocal Lattice,
Crystal Binding, Phonon dispersion,
Electrons in metals, Free electron
model, Bloch potential, Kronig-Penny
model, Band structure, Metals,
Semiconductors and Insulators,
Magnetism and Superconductivity
Laboratory: Phonon dispersion, M-H
hysteresis, Magnetic susceptibility,
Electron spin resonance, Two probe
and Four probe resistivity, Dielectric
Temperature dependent ionic
Transistors, JFET and MOSFET,
frequency analysis of FET, Differential
and Operational amplifiers,
Characteristics of Amplifier, Feedback
loop, Voltage gain and operational
modes of amplifier, Linear and
Nonlinear Op Amp Circuits,
Integration & differentiation
Oscillator circuits, Digital logic gates,
Data processing circuits, arithmetic
circuits, clock and timer circuits, flip-
Synthesis of thin films: spin-coating,
dip coating, thermal evaporation
Structural properties: XRD, electron
microscopy, AFM and analysis
Physical properties: (Electronic,
magnetic, Thermal and Optical
properties of materials) Temperature
dependent Resistivity, Thermal
properties, heat capacity (DSC), UV-
Vis spectroscopy, Raman
Mechanical properties: Stress-Strain
and hardness (with ME and
JFET biasing and amplifier circuit
design, Input Output circuit based on
Differential amplifier, Voltage-
Current output of Op Amps,
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Mathematical operation using Op
Amps, Design of negative feedback
loop for signal modification, Low
pass, high pass and band pass filter
circuit design, Wien bridge and LC
oscillator circuit, 555 timer for alarm
circuit, Logic gate, Flip-flop circuit,
TTL circuits, Use of shift register and
binary ripple counter, Multiplexers
and generation of Boolean functions,
Decoder and D/A converter
Optical Imaging techniques,
Polarization microscopy, Fluorescence
Microscopy, Confocal Microscopy,
Overcoming Diffraction limit in
microscopy, X-ray imaging and CT,
Positron emission Tomography,
Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Image
analysis based on ML and AI
techniques, Interaction of radiation
with tissues, cells and organs,
Thomson and Compton scattering,
Plasma for Therapeutic and Nuclear
Intrinsic and Extrinsic semiconductor,
Excitons, Stokes’ shift, charge carrier
mobility, diffusion length.
Biasing across pn junction, generation
recombination current, Metal
Heterojunction, band alignment,
MOSFET, Frequency response of
MOSFET, High electron mobility
transistors, Solar cells, Light emitting
diodes, Materials and devices for
Spintronics, Valleytronics and
Plasmonics, Organic electronics.
Laboratory: Band gap of
dependent Hall effect, Temperature
dependent electrical conductivity of
doped semiconductor, Mobility of
charge carrier, Capacitance-Voltage
measurement, Characterization of
solar cell, Quantum efficiency of solar
cell, Output characteristic of LED, I-V
characteristic of photodetector and
phototransistors, Optical absorption
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Atomic & Subatomic
Physics of Atoms,
Molecules and Nuclei
Modern Physics Lab
EM and Neutrino
Relativistic Energy correction in
Hydrogen atom, Zeeman effect, Stark
broadening, Hyperfine splitting,
Helium Atom, Diatomic molecules,
Molecular Orbital and Electronic
configuration of Diatomic molecules:
H2, C2, O2, NO and CN,
Nuclear forces, Models-Liquid Drop
model, Shell model, Collective model,
Measurement of the Planck’s
Constant, Stark Effect, Zeeman Effect,
Dissociation of I2, Rydberg constant,
Frank Hertz Expt, ESR Spectroscopy-
Solids, Charge of Electron, E/M ratio,
Measurement of the speed of light.
Nuclear Transition, Multipole
expansion of Nuclei, Nuclear Energy
levels, Dosimetry, Image plate and
Nuclear Calorimeter, MCP
(Multichannel plates), Single Channel
Analyzer (SCA) & Multi-channel
analyzer (MCA), Radiocarbon dating
in archaeology, Thorium cycles and
Uranium Cycles, Nuclear reactor
Kinematics of particle interactions,
Conservation laws, Neutrinos,
Hadrons, EM Weak and strong
Classification of stars with Optical
diagram, Stellar Evolution,
Astrophysical objects with Radio
emission, X-rays and Gamma-rays,
Cosmic Rays, Sky-mapping with
Gamma and Alpha Energy resolved
measurement, Compton Scattering,
Measurement of Dead-time in GM
tube, Mass Spectrometric TOF,
Detection of Atmospheric Muon with
Scintillator detector, Measurement of
Muon life-time, Measurement of half-
life of radioactive source,
Track Detectors (CR-39), Spark
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
S. No.  Specialization
Energy materials encompasses all the aspects of energy harvesting materials
and  their  corresponding  devices.  Here,  various  renewable  and  non-
renewable energy sources and their corresponding devices will be studied.
The principle behind their operation and how the efficiency of the devices
can  be  optimized  to  achieve  maximum  output  from  the  devices  would  be
discussed. This specialization will provide an in-depth understanding of the
energy materials and their future applications.
1.  Materials for Energy Technologies
1.  Physics of Solar Cells
2.  Advanced Electrochemistry and
2.  Optics for Solar Energy
3.  CHXXXX [3-0-0]
4.  Fabrication and Characterization
of Devices [0-0-2]
5.  Electrical Energy Storage
Materials and Devices [3-0-0]
6.  Nanomaterials and Nanodevices
7.  CHXXXXX [2-0-0]
3.  PHL7520 [3-0-0]
4.  Nanomaterials for Hydrogen
Production and Storage
5.  MTL7XXX [3-0-0]
7.  BBL4110 [3-0-0]
8.  Energy Harvesting
10.  Nanoscience and Nanotechnology
12.  Hydrogen Generation, Storage &
13.  Solar Resource Assessment and Its
14.  Project (6 credits)
Photonics  is  the  branch  of  science  dealing  with  light  and  its  devices  to
transmit,  transfer  and  store  information.  It  is  the  enabling  technology
covering broad industrial applications from light harvesting to storage and
light  modulation  to  delivery.  Photonics  specialization  enables  students  to
understand principles & the design of optical, photonic and laser systems for
various  applications,  including  Health  care,  communications,  defense,
safety, security, and entertainment.
1.  Fundamentals of Photonics
1.  Optical fiber technology (PHL7XXX)
2.  Laser Physics
2.  Laser Technologies      (PHL7330)
3.  Terahertz technology
3.  Engineering Optics (PHL6310)
4.  Photonic Devices
4.  Optical Communication Systems
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
7.  Contemporary Optical
8.  LED Technology
9.  Selected topics on Photonics [1-0-0]
10.  Selected topics on Photonics
11.  Selected topics on Photonics [3-0-0]
12.  Project (6 credits)
Quantum  Mechanics  has  emerged  as  a  fundamental  ingredient  for
understanding  various  facets  of  nature  such  as  atomic  and  sub-atomic
physics, quantum optics and a plethora of phenomena in condensed matter
physics.    The  amalgamation  of  quantum  physics  with  computing  and
information  theory  could  be  historically  traced  from  the  works  of  EPR
(Einstein,  Podolsky  and  Rosen),  followed  by  that  of  John  Bell  and
culminating in efforts made by Charles Bennett. Quantum technologies are
envisaged to provide unparalleled security, which would be a real booster in
future to the country's defense and financial establishments. To provide an
overview  of  the  importance  and  impact  of  an  emerging  technological
domain, this specialization will enable the students to be well versed with
the  various  challenges  on  different  aspects  of  quantum  technology.  This
specialization is offered in collaboration with IDRP-QIC.
1.  Quantum     Communications
2.  Quantum Computing
Quantum Optics and Quantum
1.  Quantum Cryptography and
Coding (QCL7XXX) [3-0-0]
2.  Non-classical states for Quantum
Information and Computation
3.  Quantum Computational Finance
4.  Quantum Communication
4.  Quantum Machine Learning
5.  Quantum Optics and
5.  Hilbert Space Techniques for
Engineering (PHL7500)           [3-
6.  Seminal Features of Quantum
7.  Open Quantum Systems
8.  Nonlinear Optics and Nonclassical
Light Detection Techniques
9.  Quantum Devices and Circuits [3-0-
10.  Project (6 credits)
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
11. Specialization topic clouds and mapping with proposed courses
Plane wave and Helmholtz equation,
Gaussian and Bessel beams, Group velocity
and dispersion, pulse spreading,
Polarization and representation through
Poincare sphere, Coherence, optical Fourier
transform, Transmission Grating and
Reflection grating, light modulation, Light
guiding, Photonic crystals, Optical
Resonators, mode stability, ring resonators,
micro-resonators, Nonlinear polarization
and its implications.
Radiation and its quantification, Einstein
relations and Planck’s Law, Laser
Oscillation, principle of Lasers, Laser-
matter interaction-Electric Polarization and
Susceptibility, electron model-classical
oscillator, resonators and Laser design,
pumping sources, Lasing mechanisms,
optical gain, gain saturation, hole burning,
broadening, Laser modes, Gaussian Beam
and Gouy phase shift, Beam Quality factor,
Solid State Lasers, Semiconductor lasers,
Gas Lasers(He-Ne, CO2), Overview on
Industrial Application of Lasers including
laser inscription and data storage
Fundamentals of Terahertz science and
basic theory of Terahertz interaction with
matter, Terahertz band, components for
THz propagation and modulation, THz
waveguides, Plastic optical fibers, artificial
materials for THz, THz sources and
detectors. Photoconductive antennas,
Quantum Cascade Lasers, Nonlinear
crystals, Difference Frequency Generation,
optical rectification, Bolometer, Pyroelectric
Detector, Golay Cells.
Terahertz spectroscopy, THz imaging, THz
sensing, THz frequency security system,
Toward 6G Communication Networks,
Terahertz communications, Industrial
Optical directional coupler, Optical
switches, optical amplifiers, wave guides,
splicers, couplers, connectors, Acousto-
optic devices, Electro-optic devices,
Magneto-optic devices, Electro-absorption
modulator, optical modulators, SLM.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Photonic crystal waveguides, Nonlinear
optical devices, power limiters, Optics on
chip, Direct Laser writing, Lifi, Fiber Bragg
grating, Laser Tweezers and scissors.
Laser oscillator and Laser characteristics,
modes and mode selection, Laser Line
width and Line broadening, Types of
lasers, Generation of ultrashort pulses, Q-
Switching, Mode locking, Chirping and
Pulse compression, YAG Lasers, State-of–
art-lasers, Self-phase modulation in fibers,
broadband and supercontinuum sources,
HOM interferometer, Shearing
Interferometer, Michelson Interferometer in
the contest of LIGO experiments, Four-
wave mixing, Transient absorption
Single and Multimode, Step index and
Graded Index Fibers, mode field diameter,
The consequences of attenuation and
dispersion in Optical Fibers, pulse band
width, refractive index profile, bend loss,
Intermodal and Intramodal Dispersion,
Fiber Fabrication Methods, Optical
amplification, noise in EDFA, WDM, bit-
error rate, signal-to-noise ratio, Optical
communications, photonic bandgap
guiding mechanism, endless single-mode
guidance, fiber optic sensors, nonlinear
pulse propagation, optical solitons
Wave Optics and applications,
interferometer Fresnel diffraction, Babinet’s
principle, Fraunhofer diffraction, limit of
resolution, N-slit diffraction, liquid
crystals, holography, waveguides, Lasers
and Nonlinear Optical Devices, Optical
instruments (telescope, camera microscope)
Basic building blocks, optical transmitters,
optical receivers, optical amplifiers, Optical
transmission system, line coding schemes,
eye pattern, Noise effects, attenuation and
dispersion limited link design, Modulation
and Detection Techniques, Tunable optical
filters, Optical fiber considerations-Pulse
broadening, Free space effects-turbulence
models, weather conditions, under-water
impairment, BER analysis under channel
Optical properties and dielectric constant,
plasmons, volume plasmons, surface
plasmons and applications, localized
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
surface plasmons, field enhancement,
damping, dephasing time and line width,
combination of SPR and LSPR, arrays,
SERS, Meta materials and applications
Paraxial Ray Optics, optical aberration,
Fresnel-Kirchhoff’s diffraction, partially
coherent light, Fourier optics; spatial
filtering and optical transfer function, point
split function ex: microscope, Image
formation, Frequency analysis,
Introduction to optical instruments:
Radiative and non-radiative processes,
Luminescence decay, LED basics- Diode
current–voltage characteristics, Carrier
distribution, Electron injection, Radiation
pattern, The lambertian emission pattern,
LED Design parameters-High internal
efficiency designs, Design of current flow,
High extraction efficiency structures, Types
Biophotonics —a new frontier,
introductory concepts of biology, cellular
processes, protein classification and
function, types of tissues and their
functions, tumors and cancers
Interaction between light and a molecule ,
fate of excited state, electronic absorption,
luminescence, vibrational spectroscopy,
fluorescence correlation spectroscopy,
interaction of light with cells, interaction of
light with tissues , in vivo photoexcitation,
optical biopsy, Biomaterials for Photonics,
Bioimaging: transmission microscopy,
fluorescence microscopy, confocal
microscopy, optical coherence tomography,
near-field optical microscopy, nonlinear
optical imaging, optical biosensors- fiber
optic biosensors, planar waveguide
biosensor, evanescent wave biosensors, spr
biosensor , flow cytometry, photodynamic
therapy and applications, tissue
engineering with light, laser tissue
welding, femtolaser surgery, Lab-on-a-
Conventional energy systems and related
materials challenges, transformer materials,
Solar thermal energy systems, materials for
concentrator, reflectors, heat transfer and
storage, solar photovoltaics, materials for
energy conversion, materials for electrical
Materials for Energy
2. Advanced Energy
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
energy storage, wind energy, materials for
wind blades, nuclear energy, geothermal
Historical background, rechargeable and
non-rechargeable batteries, primary and
secondary battery, lead-acid battery, nickel-
cadmium battery, metal ion batteries
(Lithium, sodium and potassium),
multivalent metal ion batteries
(magnesium, aluminum, zinc), metal-air
battery, redox-flow battery, photo
rechargeable batteries, Technical
challenges, liquid, gel, solid and solid
polymer electrolytes, supercapacitors,
modeling electrode materials and the
physics of electrolytes.
Basics of nanomaterials, nanoparticles, and
clusters, quantum confinement and
quantum dots, nanotechnology for energy
generation and storage: DSSC and QDSSC,
fuel cells, hydrogen storage in carbon
Quantum efficiency study of photovoltaics,
electrochemical characterizations of energy
storage devices, electrical characterization
of thermoelectric, piezoelectric, and
triboelectric devices. Characterization of
PV modules, characterization of battery
First generation silicon solar cells, thin-film
silicon solar cells, CIGS and CdTe solar
cells, DSSC, perovskite solar cells,
piezoelectric MEMS energy harvester,
piezoelectric energy transducers,
triboelectric nanogenerator, thermoelectric
energy harvesting, pyroelectric energy
Thermodynamics of solar cells and light,
properties of semiconductors, generation
and recombination of charge carriers,
different types of junctions, understanding
the current flow across the junction.
Physics of Solar
Ray optics, design of lenses, concentrating
systems, sun simulators, field design for
solar thermal application, Hydrogen
production from biowaste and fossil fuels,
Thermochemical, electrochemical and
photo-electrochemical process for
hydrogen production, Hydrogen storage in
Optics for Solar
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Metal Hydrides, Non-metal hydride
nanomaterials for Hydrogen Storage,
Thermodynamics of Hydrogen Storage
Introduction, hydrogen production
processes, metal hybrid nanomaterials for
hydrogen storage, non-metal hydride
nanomaterials for hydrogen storage,
thermodynamics of hydrogen storage
electrocatalysis, photocatalysis, pressurized
hydrogen, liquid hydrogen, metal
hydrides, chemisorption materials, fuel cell
principles, distributed application for
energy generation, electric vehicles
High-temperature materials for
conventional energy, physics of polymer
nanocomposite, liquid electrolytes, damage
assessment of the materials, recycling of
materials used in power plants, case
History of bioenergy, bio-energy
harvesting, thermoelectrics, bio-reactors,
bio-piezoelectric materials, light-harvesting
biomaterials, bio-fuel cell, artificial leaf,
bio-fluorescent materials, bio-
phosphorescent, microbial fuel cells, bio-
macromolecules and bio-polymers
Solar radiation and measurement, devices
for measurement, resource data centers,
data assessment, prediction using machine
learning and artificial intelligence
Assessment and Its
Measures of entanglement and nonlocal
correlations, Classical and quantum
information, Quantum Communication
Protocols, other quantum cryptographic
protocols, Eavesdropping and security,
Remote State Preparation, Controlled
communication protocols, Quantum
Operations and Noisy Channels, Quantum
Quantum-Circuit Model, Clauser-Horne-
Shimony-Holt inequality as a nonlocal
game, single and multi-qubit operations,
Measurements, Quantum Algorithms,
Deutsch-Jozsa and Bernstein-Vazirani
Algorithms, Simon’s Algorithm, Phase
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
estimation and quantum Fourier transform,
Quantum cryptography and post quantum
cryptography, Scalability issues, Fault
tolerant quantum computation
Hanbury Brown -Twiss Interferometer,
Generation of Entangled photons using
BBO crystal, Photon Statistics using Single
Photon Detector, Bell-State Analyzer,
Random Number Generation using
Quantum resources, Experimental
demonstration of BB84 protocol
Test of QNRG with NIST suite, FPGA
based symmetric and anti-symmetric
QKD generation, Experiments with QKD
at components level, Free space quantum
communication up to 30 meters with
single photon and analysis Experiments
with phase-shift key protocol in QKD
experiments or quantum communication,
Optical simulation module for Satellite
Spontaneous Parametric Down-Conversion
(SPDC) process, Entangled photon
detection, HOM and Franson
Interferometer, Quantum distribution
theory: Q, P and W distributions, Photon
detection and quantum coherence
functions, Atom-field interaction
Hamiltonian; density matrix of two-level
atom with a single mode field, Lasing
without inversion, coherent trapping,
electromagnetically induced transparency:
Basic concepts of these quantum
Modern cryptography; number theoretic
concepts, Classical Coding Theory:
Concepts of entropy, mutual information
and related aspects; Shannon's coding
theorem, Quantum Key Distribution
protocols: BB84, B92, Ekert protocol,
quantum cryptography; protocols of
quantum dialogue, Shor's factoring
algorithm and modern cryptography;
Experimental progress in quantum
cryptography, Quantum aspects of
Shannon coding theorem.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Seminal Features of
Generation of Single Photon, Heralded
Photon and Photon added/subtracted
states, NOON State. Photon Statistics and
higher-order moments for non-classical
states and quantum Metrology, qubits
using photons and superconducting quits,
modern quantum algorithms, Open
Quantum Systems Technological
Hilbert spaces, dual of Hilbert space,
separable Hilbert  spaces, linear
functionals, Adjoint operators, bounded
linear operators, unbounded operators,
basic postulates, Observables, states, mixed
states, qubits, superselection rules,
compatible observables, Born’s
correspondence rule for determinative
measurements, General form of the
Schrodinger equation, the evolution
operator, formalism of matrix mechanics,
equivalence of formalisms, Symmetric and
antisymmetric tensor products of Hilbert
spaces, spin and statistics, Spin and
statistics for the n-body problem
Foundations of quantum entanglement,
Introductory and seminal contributions
related to bi-partite and multiqubit
entanglement, measures of entanglement,
classification and quantification of nonlocal
correlations, entanglement versus
separability versus nonlocality, multiqubit
controlled communication protocols,
splitting of information, open destination
teleportation, quantum cryptography and
post quantum cryptography, Bell-CHSH
inequalities and quantum games,
Josephson Effects and Superconducting
Electronics, Circuits and resonance; circuit
quantization, charge, flux, and phase
qubits, Quantum  hardware
implementation, Qubit readout; dispersive
measurement; parametric amplification,
variational quantum circuits and its
applications, Weak measurement and
feedback, decoherence mechanisms,
Fluxonium, Positive Operator Value
Measure (POVM),   Non-demolition
measurements and  quantum noise,
Introduction quantum sensing & Quantum
MEMS, Single photon detectors
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
and Quantum Light
Single photon source, NV centers Squeezed
Light generation, mode squeezing
techniques and other squeezing techniques
and Parametric down conversion (PDC)
Second and Fourth Intensity correlation,
Homodyne (Balanced & Unbalanced)
Time-Domain, Radon Transformation and
Inverse-Radon Transformation, Quantum
Partition function as a path integral;
density matrix evolution as a path integral.
Liouville equation; Langevin equation;
Fokker-Planck equation; Boltzmann
equation; quantum dynamical semigroups
and Lindblad equations; projection
operator techniques. Role of open systems
in quantum information; geometric phase;
Financial Derivatives, Spot and Forward
Rates, Forward and Futures, Options (call
and put), European and American Options,
Put-call parity, Binomial Tree, Discrete
Time Models for Option Pricing, Simon's
algorithm, The prime factorization
algorithm, Grover's search algorithm, Error
correction and fault-tolerant, Quantum
Computing, Quantum optimization
Algorithms,  Quantum machine learning
Algorithms (quantum principal component
analysis, quantum K-means, quantum
hierarchical clustering), Quantum
amplitude estimation and Monte Carlo
Algorithm, Lagrangian for Stock Price with
Stochastic Volatility, Classical Monte Carlo
Pricing, Quantum Algorithm for Monte
Carlo and European Option Pricing
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Futuristic aspects and role of computer
science and engineering- Algorithms,
machines and their architectures;
limitations and prospects of quantum
technologies in comparison to their
classical counterparts, Quantum computing
and machine learning, Quantum-
Simulation, Optimization, Algorithms,
error correction and cryptography in the
new era, Quantum computing and machine
learning, Quantum Supremacy, Quantum
annealing, Eigenvalue problem and
Quantum phase estimation algorithms,
Variational eigenvalue solver, Quantum
circuit learning, Quantum nodes, hybrid
learning algorithms, Quantum
Approximate Optimization Algorithm,
Discrete optimization, kernel functions,
Coherent quantum machine learning
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Introduction to Electrical Engineering
Introduction to Computer Science
Introduction to Bioengineering
Engineering Design I
Communication Skill I
Social Connect and responsibilities I
Performing Arts I /Sports I
Engineering Design II
Communication Skill II
Social Connect and responsibilities II
Performing Arts II/Sports II
Introduction to Machine Learning
Signals and Systems
Basic Computational Lab
Intro. To Profession
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Data Structures and Algorithms
Embedded Systems & IoT
Mathematical methods for Physicists
EM waves and fields
Big Data Management
Physics of atoms, molecules and nuclei
Solid State Physics
Thin film & Material Characterization Lab
Applied Computational Lab
Professional Ethics I
Nuclear radiation and Energy
Interaction of radiation with matter
Semiconducting and Optoelectronic Devices
Applied optics Lab
Modern physics Lab
Radiation and particle detection Lab
Entrepreneurship for Physicists
Professional Ethics II
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Fluids & Plasmas
EM and Neutrino Astronomy
Total of Graded Credits
Total of Non-Graded Credits
Non-Graded Design Credits
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
13. Detailed Program Compulsory Course Contents
13.1 Fundamental Physics
The instructor will:
1.  Discuss the fundamental principles of particle dynamics.
2.  Provide  concepts  and  problem-solving  approach  related  to  dynamics  of  particles  and  rigid
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the basic methodology of particle dynamics.
2.  Design and solve problems related to model mechanical systems.
Tensor  analysis:  Determinants,  Spaces  of  N  dimensions,  Coordinate  transformations,  Covariant,
contravariant mixed tensor, Kronecker Delta, Tensor algebra, Matrix algebra. [10 Lectures]
Waves  and  Oscillations:  Simple  harmonic,  Damped,  and  Forced  oscillations,  Mechanical  and
Electrical Oscillators. [4 Lectures]
Newtonian Mechanics: Dynamics of particle: Newton’s law of motion, Central force, motion under
inverse square law of force, Inertial and non-inertial frames; Dynamics of a system of particles: Linear
and angular momentum, Total energy of a system of particles, Two-body problem; Dynamics of rigid
bodies: Moments and product of inertia of some symmetrical bodies, Law of gravitation, Gravitational
potential. [12 Lectures]
Lagrange’s formulation of mechanics:
Constraints  and  their  classification,  Principle  of  least  action,  D’alembert’s  principle,  Lagrange’s
equations of motion, Generalized force, Application of Lagrangian formulation. [6 Lectures]
Hamiltonian's formalism of mechanics:
Canonical  conjugate  momenta,  Legendre  transformation,  Hamilton’s  equations  of  motion,
applications of Hamilton’s equations. [5 Lectures]
Special Theory of Relativity:
The  basic  principles  of  special  relativity,  The  Lorentz  transformation,  Length  contraction,  Time
dilation, Twin paradox, Covariant four-dimensional formulation, The force and energy equations in
relativistic mechanics. [5 Lectures]
1.  A. W. Joshi, Matrices and tensors in Physics, New Age International (1975)
2.  Rana & Joag, Classical Mechanics, Tata McGraw-Hill (1991)
3.  A. K. Raychaudhuri, Classical Mechanics, OUP India (1983)
4.  Kleppner, Daniel; Kolenkow, Robert, An Introduction to Mechanics, Cambridge University
1.  Goldstein, H., Classical Mechanics, Pearson India Limited, New Delhi (2011)
Jose,  J.  V.,  and  Saletan,  E.  J.,  Classical  Dynamics:  A  Contemporary  Approach,  Cambridge
University Press, (2002).
3.  Landau, L. D., and Lifshitz, E. M., Mechanics, Pergamon Press, (1960).
Self -Learning Material
1.  Banerjee D., Classical Mechanics, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, Kharagpur,
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The Instructor will:
1.  Address  the  limitations  of  classical  mechanics  and  illustrate  how  quantum  mechanics  can
Illustrate  the  postulates,  basic  descriptions  of  quantum  systems,  and  important  applications  of
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the necessity and the domain of applications of the quantum mechanical approach.
2.  Solve Schrödinger’s equation for model systems.
3.  Understand the operator algebra of quantum mechanical angular momentum.
Linear Vector Spaces:
Algebraic Eqns, Matrices, Special Matrices, Special Functions, Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors, Vectors,
Operators, Bra and Ket notation for vectors, Representation theory. [12 Lectures]
Origin of Quantum Theory:
Conceptual  aspects,  The  black  body  radiation,  Photoelectric  effect,  Failure  of  Rutherford’s  atomic
model, Atomic spectra, Bohr’s theory, The mathematical aspects. [3 Lectures]
The Basic Principles:
De  Broglie  and  Schrodinger’s  matter  waves,  Double  slit  experiment,  Fundamental  Postulates,  The
uncertainty principle, Density matrix. [3 Lectures]
Schrödinger’s  equation,  Particle  in  a  box,  Particle  in  well,  Tunneling  and  resonances,  The  linear
Harmonic oscillator, The hydrogen atom. [12 Lectures]
Theory of Angular Momentum:
The definition, Orbital angular momentum, Addition of angular momentum, Angular momentum and
rotation, Consequence of quantization. [12 Lectures]
1.  A. Beiser, S. Mahajan, and S. R. Choudhury, Concepts of Modern Physics, McGraw-Hill, 7th Ed.,
2.  H. C. Verma, Quantum Physics, Surya Publications, 2nd Ed., 2012.
3.  D. J. Griffiths and D. F. Shroeter, Introduction to Quantum Mechanics, Cambridge, 3rd Ed., 2018.
1.  R.  P.  Feynman,  R.  B.  Leighton,  and  M.  Sands,  The  Feynman  Lectures  On  Physics  -  Vol.  3  -
Quantum Mechanics: The New Millennium Edition, Pearson Education, 1st Ed., 2012.
J. L. Powell and B. Crasemann, Quantum Mechanics, Dover Publications Inc., 2015.
3.  E. Merzbacher, Quantum Mechanics, Wiley, 3rd Ed., 1998.
Self -Learning Material
1.  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Balakrishnan,  V.,  Department  of  Physics,
2.  Prof. H. C. Verma, IIT Kanpur, https://hcverma.in/QuantumMechanics
3.  V. Vuletic, Quantum Physics I, http://hdl.handle.net/1721.1/90372.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Mathematical Methods for Physicists
The Instructor will:
1.  Enable  students  with  the  mathematical  skills  required  to  approach  problems  of  interests  to
physicists in the fundamental and applied research areas.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the properties of special functions and partial differential equations and apply these
in various physical problems, for instance, electrostatics and quantum mechanics.
2.  Obtain  the  power  series  of  a  function  and  apply  the  residue  theorem  for  evaluating  contour
Special Functions and Integrals:
Ordinary and singular points of a linear differential equation, Beta and Gamma functions, Dirac-delta
function, Hypergeometric functions, Legendre, Hermite, Laguerre polynomials and their associated
polynomials, Bessel and spherical Bessel functions, Recurrence relations, Rodrigues formula, Integral
expressions,  Applications  in  potential  theory  and  wave  mechanics  such  as  evaluation  of  wave
functions for Quantum harmonic oscillator, Hydrogen atom, etc. [14 Lectures]
Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) and Integral Transforms:
PDEs  in  natural  science,  First  order  PDEs,  Classification  of  second  order  PDEs  and  reduction  to
canonical  forms,  Laplace  and  Poisson  equations,  Application  to  boundary  value  problems  in
potential theory and steady-state thermal conduction, Heat equation and application to molecular
diffusion, Wave equation and application to vibrational modes of a string/membrane, Method of
separation of variables in different coordinate systems, Method of integral transforms. [14 Lectures]
Review  of  complex  numbers  and  elementary  functions,  Analytic  functions,  Cauchy-Riemann
conditions, Harmonic functions, Classification of singularities, Order of poles and zeros, Cauchy’s
residue theorem, Contour integration and application to solving definite integrals, Jordan’s lemma,
Evaluation of indefinite integrals, Convergence of a power series, Taylor and Laurent series, Analytic
continuation. [14 Lectures]
1.  G. B. Arfken, H. J. Weber, and F. E. Harris, Mathematical Methods for Physicists, Elsevier, 7th Ed.,
S. D. Joglekar, Mathematical Physics: The Basics, Universities Press, 1st Ed., 2005.
S. D. Joglekar, Mathematical Physics: Advanced Topics, Universities Press, 1st Ed., 2006.
2.  M. L. Boas, Mathematical Methods in the Physical Sciences, John Wiley & Sons, 2005.
3.  V.  Balakrishnan,  Mathematical  Physics  with  Applications,  Problems  and  Solutions,  Ane
I. Sneddon, Elements of Partial Differential Equations, Dover, 2006.
4.  M. R. Spiegel, Complex Variables, Schaum’s Outline Series, McGraw-Hill, 1999.
Self- Learning Material
Selected  topics  in  Mathematical  Physics,  NPTEL  course  (by  Prof.  V.  Balakrishnan,  Department  of
Physics, IIT Madras).
2.  Linear Partial Differential Equations, MIT OpenCourseWare, Fall 2006,
2006/index.htm, (by Dr. Matthew Hancock, Veryst Engineering, LLC)
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
3.  Complex Variables with Applications, MIT OpenCourseWare, Spring 2018
2018/index.htm# (Dr. Jeremy Orloff, Lecturer in Mathematics, MIT)
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Basic Computational Lab
The Instructor will:
1.  Help gaining skills in Linux commands, shell scripting and programming
Introduce different tools to visualize and graphically analyze data.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply basic computational skills in designing and solving problems.
2.  Develop computer programs to solve problems in science and engineering.
Introduction to Linux, Shell Scripting, and Python Scripting:
1)  Basic concepts and commands of Linux; text editing using vim editor
2)  Shell and Python scripting
Data Analysis and Visualization: MATLAB, Scilab, Mathematica, Gnuplot, xmgrace, MINUIT
3)  Data analysis and visualization using MATLAB, Scilab, and Mathematica
4)  Scientific plotting and graphical/data analysis using Gnuplot and xmgrace
5)  Minimization algorithms and error analysis using MINUIT (CERN program software library)
6)  Basic elements of programming: Algorithms and Flowchart development
7)  Declaration of constants and variables, Print/Read/Write statements with formatting.
8)  Unary and binary operations: Logical, relational, and arithmetic operations
9)  Array manipulation and application to matrix multiplication and inversion
10)  Control statements: IF loops, DO loops, Nested loops
11)  Functions/Subroutines: Solving real physical problems
12)  Introduction to LaTeX and Overleaf: Document class, building and compiling a LaTeX file
13)  Commands and Environments: Inserting equations, figures, tables, list environments, etc.
1.  V. Rajaraman, Computer Programming in Fortran 90 and 95, Prentice Hall India, 1997.
2.  S. S. Sastry, Introductory Methods of Numerical Analysis, Prentice Hall India, 5th Ed., 2012.
3.  S. C. Chapra, Applied numerical methods with MATLAB for engineers and scientists, Tata McGraw-
Hill, 2nd Ed., 2008.
4.  P. K. Janert, Gnuplot in Action: Understanding Data with Graphs, Manning, 2nd Ed., 2016.
J. H. Mathews and K. D. Fink, Numerical methods using MATLAB, PHI Learning, 4th Ed., 2004.
2.  R. H. Landau, M. J Paez, and C. C. Bordeianu, Computational Physics: Problem-solving with Python,
Wiley-VCH, 3rd Ed. 2015.
3.  H. Kopka and P. W. Daly, A Guide to LaTeX: Tools and Technologies for Computer Typesetting,
Addison-Wesley Longman, 4th Ed., 2003.
Self -Learning Material
1.  Computational Physics, NPTEL course (by A. Chatterji and P. Ghosh, Department of Physics, IISER
2.  MINUIT: Function Minimization and Error Analysis, Reference Manual,
https://root.cern.ch/download/minuit.pdf (by F. James, CERN Geneva, Switzerland)
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Applied Computational Lab
Basic Computational Lab
The Instructor will:
1.  Help implement different numerical techniques and minimization.
Introduce Monte Carlo methods to solve real problems in natural sciences.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply Monte Carlo techniques in designing and solving scientific problems.
2.  Model and simulate real phenomena in physics.
1.  Curve Fitting and Numerical Integration
2.  Minimization with CG or SD
3.  Solving ODEs and PDEs
4.  Systems of Linear and Nonlinear Equations
5.  Singular Value Decomposition
Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics:
6.  Thermodynamic Properties and Ensemble Averages
7.  Langevin and Brownian dynamics
Monte Carlo Integration and Sampling Methods:
8.  Random Number Generators and Monte Carlo integration
10.  Detailed Balance and Markov process
Monte Carlo Simulations:
11.  Calculation of Pi
12.  Random walk problem to understand Brownian motion and molecular diffusion
13.  Hard sphere model or Ideal gas
14.  Photon gas problem
15.  The Physics of the Lennard-Jones system
1.  Chapra, S. C., and Canale, R. P. Numerical Methods for Engineers, 7th Edition, McGraw-Hill Education.
2.  Newman, M., Computational Physics, CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2012.
1.  Allen, M. P., and Tildesley, D. J., Computer Simulation of Liquids, Oxford University Press, 2nd ed. 2017.
2.  Landau,  D.  P.  and  Binder,  K.,  A  Guide  to  Monte  Carlo  Simulations  in  Statistical  Physics,  3rd  Edition,
Cambridge University Press 2009.
3.  T.  Schlick,  Molecular  Modeling  and  Simulation:  An  Interdisciplinary  Guide,  New  York:  Springer-Verlag,
Second Edition (2010).
Self -Learning Material
1.  MIT Open CourseWare, 3.320 “Atomistic Computer Modeling of Materials (SMA 5107)”, by Ceder, G. and
Marzari, N.; Spring 2005, https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/materials-scienceand-engineering/3-320-
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
13.2 Electrodynamics and Plasma Physics
EM Waves and Fields
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the concepts regarding boundary value problems in electro and magnetodynamics.
2.  Basic understanding of electro-magnetic fields and their applications in applied branches of
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Explain and solve problems based on classical electrodynamics
2.  To understand retarded and advanced potentials, waveguides, resonant cavities and their
1.  Green’s Function in Electro- and Magnetodynamics, Boundary value problems in Electrostatics,
Uniqueness theorem, Green's Function in Electrostatics, Multipole expansion, Magnetodynamics,
Displacement  current,  Maxwell’s  equations,  Vector  potentials,  Electromagnetic  energy
momentum Tensor. [12 Lectures]
2.  Electromagnetic Wave Propagation in Media and Fresnel Coefficients: Electromagnetic Waves at
a Plane Interface between Dielectrics, Plane Waves in Non-conducting Medium, Group Velocity
Dispersion  (GVD),  Kramers-Kronig  Relations,  Linear  and  Circular  Polarization,  Wave-plates,
Stokes Parameter, Fresnel coefficients. [10 Lectures]
3.  Geometry of Waveguides and Resonant Cavities: Fields at the surface of and within a Conductor;
Cylindrical Cavities and Wave Guides, Resonant Cavities, Power losses in a Cavity and Q of a
Cavity. [10 Lectures]
4.  Retarded and Advanced Potentials: Radiation by moving Charges, Lienard-Wiechertz Potentials
and Fields for a moving Point Charge, Total power Radiated by an Accelerating charge, Larmor’s
formula.  [6 Lectures]
5.  Radio  Waves  and  Antennas:  Introduction  to  Radio  waves  and  different  types  of  antennas.  [4
2.  Griffiths, J. David, Introduction to Electrodynamics, Prentice Hall.
Jackson, J. D., Classical Electrodynamics, Wiley India Pvt. Ltd., 2007.
1.  Lorrain, P.  and Corson, D., Electromagnetic Fields and Waves, CBS Publishers, 2003.
2.  Panofsky W.K.H. and Philips M., Classical Electricity and Magnetism, Dover Publishers, 1990.
Self-Learning course material
1.  Dighe, A., Electrodynamics, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai,
2.  Gut, A., Lecture notes on Electromagnetism II, MIT open course ware
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Interaction of Radiation with Matter
The Instructor will:
1.  To provide the basic understanding of interaction of different forms of radiation with matter.
2.  Basic scientific processes involving detection of radiation and its applications.
The students are expected to have the ability:
1.  To familiarize with fundamental concepts of radioactive and ionizing radiations.
2.  To familiarize with the usage of ionizing radiation in the modern technologies.
1.  Radioactive decays and energy loss mechanisms: Interaction of ionizing and non-ionizing radiation
with matter, Energy loss mechanism of charged particle and Radiation, Collisional Stopping power
(Bathe’s formula), Energy range of alpha and beta particles.  Mass spectrometer & Time-of-flight (TOF),
Scattering:   Differential Cross-section of a nuclei and related experimental techniques, Introduction to
Geant. [7 Lectures]
2.  Radiation Counters: Principle of radiation counter, Geiger Muller (GM) Counter, Scintillation Counter
and other radiation counting techniques, Particle accelerator. [6 Lectures]
3.  Nuclear sensors and Radiation Safety: Nuclear detection techniques, Radiation threshold for humans,
Radiation Safety and protocols. [6 Lectures]
4.  Generation of Radiation and its applications: Synchrotron Radiation, Free-electron Laser, Cherenkov,
Optical  Transition  Radiation  (OTR)  &  Coherent  Transition  Radiation  (CTR)  and  Bremsstrahlung
Radiation. [9 Lectures]
1.  To measure the plateau region of GM tube
2.  To calculate gamma-ray attenuation in a medium using gamma source
3.  Dosimeter calibration using different radio-active sources
4.  Radiation counter: To measure the gamma-ray counts using gamma-ray counter
5.  Radiation counter: To measure the beta-ray counts using beta-ray counter
6.  Simulation of GEANT-4: Interaction of high energy positive ions in a medium
7.  Simulation of GEANT-4: Interaction of high energy electrons in a medium
8.  Simulation  of  GEANT-4:  Interaction  of  high  energy  gamma-particles  and  other  neutral  in  a
3.  Manual for GEANT-4 simulation software
Irving Kaplan, Nuclear Physics, Addison -Wesley publication
J. D. Jackson, Classical Electrodynamics, Wiley-India Pvt. Ltd., 1999, Third Edition.
1.  B. L. Cohen, CONCEPTS OF NUCLEAR PHYSICS, Tata Mcgraw Hill Education Private Limited,
2005, Third Edition.
2.  Ghoshal, S. N., Nuclear Physics, S. Chand, 2011.
1.  T.  Kundu,
Jeffrey  Coderre,  MIT  Course  Number  22.55J,  PRINCIPLES  OF  RADIATION  INTERACTIONS,
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The Instructor will provide:
1.  The concepts of fundamental optics.
2.  Classical and Semi-Classical approaches to understand the characteristics of light wave.
The students are expected to have the ability:
1.  To gain the knowledge of Geometrical and Wave Optics.
2.  To understand the role of Polarization and Fourier Optics in optical instruments.
Geometrical  Optics:  Light,  Corpuscular  and  Wave  models  of  light,  Wave  particle  duality,  Fermat’s
principle and its applications, Eikonal Equation, reflection and refraction by spherical surfaces, Matrix
method in paraxial optics, Thin and thick lens, Optical system (telescope), aberrations. [10 Lectures]
Wave  Optics:  Simple  Harmonic  Motion,  Forced  Vibrations  and  origin  of  refractive  index,  wave
propagation,  wave  equation,  Huygens  principle  and  its  applications,  superposition  of  waves,
interference  by  division  of  wave-fronts  and  division  of  amplitudes,  multiple  beam  interference,
Coherence. [10 Lectures]
Fourier  Optics:  Overview  of  Diffraction,  Diffraction  Integral:  Fresnel  Diffraction,  Fraunhofer
approximation.  Fraunhofer  Diffraction  by  long  narrow  slit,  rectangular  aperture,  circular  aperture,
Working  principle  and  application  of  telescope,  spatial  frequency  filtering,  Fourier  transforming
property of a thin lens, Fresnel diffraction. [8 Lectures]
Polarization:  Malus  Law,  Production  of  polarized  light,  Brewster  angle,  Phenomenon  of  double
refraction,  interference  of  polarized  light,  Analysis  of  polarized  light,  Walston  prism,  EM  Wave
propagation in a anisotropic media, Ray velocity, Ray refractive index, Faraday rotation. [8 Lectures]
Semi-Classical and Quantum approaches. [6 Lectures]
1.  Ghatak A, Optics, 7th Edition Mc-graw Hill Publisher, 2021.
2.  Hecht E., Optics, 4th Edition, Pearson Publisher, 2007.
1.  Born & Wolf, Optics (7th edition)
2.  K K Sharma, Optics: Principles and Applications, Academic Press 2006.
1.  Barbastathis,  G.  and  Sheppard  C.,  Optics,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Fluids and Plasmas
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  a  basic  understanding  of  contemporary  developments  in  the  plasma  technology  area
through concept building of plasma science.
2.  Familiarize  students  to  the  broad  range  of  plasma  environments  and  plasma  applications  and
provide experience in the handling of basic equipment.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Solve  basic  plasma  physics  problems  and  be  familiar  with  important  scientific  approaches  of
Fluids and Plasmas.
2.  Acquire a broad knowledge base of plasma science and its technological applications.
3.  See plasma as an enabling technology and understand where applying plasmas can lead to new
or improved technology.
The Name Plasma:  Relevant concepts from gas (kinetic) theory, Saha equation, Definition of plasma
and relevant characteristic parameters (e.g., Mean free path, Debye length, Debye shielding, plasma
temperature, plasma oscillations, degree of ionisation, plasma sheath), Plasmas in nature. [6 Lectures]
Fluid Theory: Two fluid model, Continuity equation, Momentum conservation, Convective derivative,
Equations  of  state,  Single  fluid  approximation:  MHD,  MHD  equilibria,  Generalised  Ohm’s  Law,
Waves and instabilities in plasmas. [7 Lectures]
Breakdown  Conditions  and  Man-Made  Plasmas:  Townsend  discharge  and  electrical  breakdown
conditions of gases, Discharge regimes (Glow Discharge, Abnormal Glow Discharge, Arc Discharge),
Concepts  of  DC  plasma,  DC-pulsed  plasma,  RF  plasma,  Atmospheric  pressure  Cold  plasma,
Capacitive  and  Inductive  plasmas,  Electron  Cyclotron  Resonance  (ECR)  plasma,  Tokamak  plasma,
Laser produced Plasma. [9 Lectures]
Laboratory Plasma Applications: Plasma treatment of surfaces, Plasma deposition, Plasma Etching,
Plasma Lightning devices, Cold plasma applications in health, food, energy and agriculture, Nanoscale
fabrications and plasma for biomedicines. [6 Lectures]
1.  To study the conditions of occurrence of plasma striations.
2.  To study the dependence of break-down voltage on pressure and inter-electrode gap for a given
gas using Paschen Curve.
3.  To launch and detect ion-acoustic waves and demonstrate collective behaviour of plasma.
4.  Measurement of plasma parameters (floating potential, electron temperature and plasma density)
by Langmuir probe.
5.  To measure plasma parameters using a double Langmuir Probe where there is no reference point.
6.  To identify the plasma species and their concentrations using plasma spectroscopy.
7.  To demonstrate thin film deposition on glass substrate using Magnetron Sputtering System.
8.  To demonstrate Plasma Nitriding Process for surface hardening of different alloyed steels.
9.  To demonstrate surface treatment using non-equilibrium Cold Plasma.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
1.  F.F. Chen, Introduction to Plasma Physics and Controlled Fusion, Volume 1: Plasma Physics,
NY, Plenum Press, 1984
2.  Yuri P. Raizer, Gas Discharge Physics, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg, 1991
J. Reece Roth, Industrial Plasma Engineering, Vol. 1 & 2, Institute of Physics Publishing, 2003
4.  P.I John, Plasma Sciences and the Creation of Wealth, Tata McGraw-Hill Education Company
Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, 2005
1.  R.J Goldston and Paul H. Rutherford, Introduction to Plasma Physics, Institute of Physics
Publishing, Bristol 1995.
2.  Michael Lieberman and Allan J. Lichtenberg, Principles of Plasma Discharges and Materials
Processing, John Wiley, 2005
John Wesson, Tokamaks, Clarendon Press- Oxford, 2004
Self-Learning course material
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Applied Optics Lab
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the experimental understanding regarding the fundamental concepts of Optics using
different measurement techniques.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the concepts and become familiar with the fundamental optical processes.
2.  Understand the working principles of various optical measurement techniques.
1.  Measurement of the wavelength of He-Ne Laser and Na lamp using Michelson’s Interferometer.
Study of fringes of equal inclination and equal thickness using Na lamp.
2.  To measure the (a) optical path difference and (b) refractive index of transparent material using
Mach Zehnder’s interferometer.
3.  To measure the spacing between the tracks on a CD using Diffraction of laser light.
4.  To determine the wavelength of Sodium light using Fresnel bi-prism. To find out the angle of bi-
5.  To find out the difference in wavelength of D1 and D2 lines of sodium light. To determine the
wavelength of monochromatic light.
6.  Verification of Malus' law. Measurement of reflection coefficient of a glass plate for p- and s-
polarizations. Determination of Brewster angle.
7.  To determine the (a) Numerical aperture, (b) splice loss and bending loss of a multi-mode optical
8.  Demonstration of light amplification process through optical fiber as a gain media.
9.  To generate Holographic images used laser based Holography.
10.  To study electro-optic effect using Non-linear Optical Crystal.
1.  Ghatak A, Optics, 7th Edition Mc-graw Hill Publisher, 2021
2.  F.L. Pedrotti, L. M. Pedrotti, L.S. Pedrotti, Introduction to Optics 3rd Edition, Pearsons, 2014.
1.  Barbastathis, G. and Sheppard C., Optics, https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mechanical-engineering/2-
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide an experimental understanding of Electromagnetic Waves and Fields and their significance in
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  the  basics  related  to  the  EM  waves,  working  principles  of  various  measurement
2.  Experimentally establish the theoretical concepts of EM.
1.  To construct a Collimator and a Beam Expander using required optical components and measure the
expansion in the laser beam spot size.
2.  To construct a Telescope using required optical components and obtain a magnification of 20X.
3.  To measure the FSR (free spectral range) and spacing of the etalon using Fabry-Perot etalon.
4.  Electrodynamics Numerical Solver: Electrostatic field distribution and its characterization for circular
5.  Electrodynamics  Numerical  Solver:  Electrostatic  field  distribution  and  its  characterization  for
rectangular geometrical structures
(a) To determine the frequency and wavelength in a rectangular waveguide working on TE 01 mode.
(b) Determination of V number.
7.  To measure polar pattern and gain of a waveguide antenna.
8.  Characterization  of  parabolic  dish  antenna,  Effect  of  Impedance  measurement  for  different  coaxial
cables and their frequency dependence.
2.  Griffiths, J. David, Introduction to Electrodynamics, Prentice Hall.
Jackson, J. D., Classical Electrodynamics, Wiley India Pvt. Ltd., 2007.
1.  Lorrain, P.  and Corson, D., Electromagnetic Fields and Waves, CBS Publishers, 2003.
2.  Panofsky W.K.H. and Philips M., Classical Electricity and Magnetism, Dover Publishers, 1990.
Self-Learning course material
1.  Dighe, A., Electrodynamics, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai,
2.  Gut, A., Lecture notes on Electromagnetism II, MIT open course ware
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
13.3 Condensed Matter Physics
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide basic understanding and knowledge to thermal physics including both fundamental as well
as applied aspects.
The Students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the fundamental laws of thermodynamics and statistical physics and applications.
2.  Develop  the  ability  and  skill  to  apply  the  thermal  physics  principles  to  various  thermo-dynamical
systems and processes in different domains of physics and technology including condensed matter
and semiconductor materials and devices.
Kinetic  theory  of  gasses:  Maxwell-Boltzmann  speed  distribution  law,  Mean  free  path,  collision
probability, Fundamentals of transport phenomena, Brownian motion and its significance, Einstein’s
theory  of  molecular  diffusion,  Perrin’s  experiment,  random  walk,  Viscosity,  diffusion,  effusion,
thermal conductivity in gas. [10 Lectures]
Principle  of  equipartition  of  energy:  Specific  heat  of  monoatomic,  diatomic  and  polyatomic  gasses,
Specific heat of solids, Dulong-petit law, Virial expansion. [4 Lectures]
Thermodynamic laws and potentials: zeroth, 1st, 2nd, and 3rd laws of thermodynamics, Cyclic process,
Carnot’s  theorem,  Entropy  and  the  concept  of  unavailable  energy,  T-S  diagram  thermodynamic
potentials, Equation of state for Real gasses, deviation from ideal gas equation, The Van-der Waals
equation  of  state,  Clausius–Clapeyron  relation,  Gibbs-  Helmholtz  and  energy  equations,  Enthalpy,
Helmholtz  and  Gibbs
thermodynamics of chemical reactions. [12 Lectures]
free  energies,  general  condition
Phase  Transitions:  1st  and  2nd  order  phase  transitions,  Phase  diagram  and  Triple  point,  Ehrenfest
equations, Gibbs phase rule and simple applications. [6 Lectures]
Radiation:  Energy  density  and  pressure  of  radiation,  Blackbody  radiation  and  Kirchhoff’s  law,
Blackbody (Cavity). [4 Lectures]
Statistical Physics: Principle of statistical physics, Concept of ensemble and introduction to different
statistics. [6 Lectures]
1.  Schroeder D, An Introduction to Thermal Phsyics, Oxford University Press, 2021
2.  Zemansky M W and Dittman R H, Heat and Thermodynamics, McGraw Hill, 2017
1.  Kittel C and Kroemer H, Thermal Physics, W. H. Freeman Publication, 1980
2.  Rief, F., Fundamental of Statistical and Thermal Physics, Waveland Press, 2009
3.  Blundell S. J. and Blundell, K. M., Concepts in Thermal Physics, Oxford University Press, 2009
Saha Meghnad, Srivastava, A Treatise on Heat, Indian Press Ltd, 1935
Self-Learning course material
1.  Banerji D., Thermal Physics, NPTEL course material, Department of Physics, IIT Kharagpur
2.  Anand, T. N. C., Thermodynamics, NPTEL course material, Department of Mechnical Engineering, IIT
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Solid State Physics
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide an introduction to crystals and their representation in physics.
2.  Provide  the  concepts  of  thermal,  electronic,  magnetic  and  dielectric  properties  due  to  the  periodic
nature of crystals.
The Students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the physical properties of crystalline materials using simple models and approximations.
2.  Develop the understanding how many body interactions at quantum scale manifests into measurable
and observable physical effects.
Crystal Structure and Crystal Binding: Solids and Liquids, Symmetry, Periodic Lattice, Unit Cell, Miller
indices, Reciprocal Lattice, Brillouin Zone, X-ray diffraction and extinction rules. [11 Lectures]
Crystal Binding: Crystals of inert gasses, Van der Waals London interaction, Cohesive energy, Ionic,
Covalent and Metallic bonding, Hydrogen bonds. [3 Lectures]
Phonons  and  Electrons  in  Solid:  Phonon  dispersion  for  mono  and  diatomic  systems,  Phonon  heat
capacity, Density of states, Einstein and Debye model of specific heat capacity, Thermal expansion and
Thermal conductivity. [6 Lectures]
Electron  in  Periodic  potential:  Free  Electron  model,  Density  of  states,  Heat  capacity,  Electrical
conductivity,  Motion  in  magnetic  field,  Thermal  conductivity  and  Lorentz  number,  Energy  Bands,
Bloch function, Kronig-Penney model, metals, semiconductors and insulators. [11 Lectures]
Magnetism and Superconductivity: Types of Magnetism, Quantum theory of dia and paramagnetism,
Weiss model of Ferro and Antiferromagnetism, Domains and hysteresis, Meissner effect, Theoretical
Models of Superconductivity, BCS theory, Josephson effect, Flux quantization. [11 Lectures]
Laboratory  Experiments:  Phonon  dispersion,  M-H  hysteresis,  Magnetic  susceptibility,  Electron  spin
resonance,  Two  probe  and  four  probe  resistivity,  Dielectric  constant  and  curie  temperature,
thermoluminescence,  temperature  dependent  ionic  conductivity;  Report  and/or  presentation  on
Advanced topics in solid state physics selected by the instructor (Lab manuals will be provided)
1.  Kittel, C., Introduction to Solid State Physics, Wiley, 8th Edition, 2008.
2.  Omar, M. A., Elementary Solid State Physics, Pearson, 2009.
1.  Ashcroft, N., W. and Mermin, N., D., Solid State Physics, Cengage Learning, 1976
2.  Simon, S., The Oxford Solid State Basics, Oxford University Press, 2013
3.  Dekker, A. J., Solid State Physics, Springer, 1981
Self-Learning course material
1.  Rangarajan, G., Condensed Matter Physics, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Physics, Indian
Institute of Technology Madras, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/115106061/.
2.  Wen,  X-G.,  Physics  of  Solids  I,  MIT  open  course,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-  231-
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Thin film and Material Characterization Lab
The Instructor will:
1.  Describe techniques to deposit thin films on a substrate.
2.  Demonstrate the structural, electrical, magnetic, thermal and mechanical characterization techniques
for bulk and thin film materials.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Deposit thin films by simple techniques.
2.  Measure  the  structural  and  physical  properties  viz,  electronic,  magnetic,  optical  and  mechanical
properties of bulk and thin film samples.
3.  Perform Analysis and interpretation of the measured data.
1.  Thin film deposition by spin-coating and dip-coating
2.  Thin film deposition by thermal evaporation
3.  X-Ray diffraction of bulk and thin film materials and analysis
4.  Electron microscopy and or AFM to find the morphology and surface topography
5.  Temperature dependent Resistivity and Magnetoresistance by four probe
6.  Van der Pauw method for electrical resistivity and Hall bar geometry
7.  Thermal conductivity measurement by Lee’s disc method
8.  Heat capacity (DSC/TGA)
9.  Thermoelectric properties/ Seebeck coefficient of semiconductors
10.  UV-Vis spectroscopy to find absorption edges of materials
11.  Raman Spectra of solid sample
12.  Stress-Strain and hardness measurement of bulk samples
1.  Kaufmann, E. N., Characterization of Materials, Wiley, 2012
2.  Laboratory Manuals of equipment
1.  Ohring, M., Materials science of thin films, Elsevire, 2nd Edition, 2002
2.  Maissel, L. I. and Glang, R., Handbook of Thin Film Technology, McGraw-Hill, 1970
Self-Learning course material
1.  Alagarsam, P., Characterization of Materials, NPTEL course material, Department of Physics, IIT
2.  Review papers and Technical reports
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Semiconducting and Optoelectronic Devices
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide concepts on semiconducting and optoelectronic devices.
2.  Show the approach to analyze and understand the physics of semiconducting device operation.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Know the operational principles of semiconducting and optoelectronic device.
2.  Design a device for the desired application.
Basic Overview: Crystal Structure, quantum mechanics, solid state physics. [2 lectures]
Semiconductor  in  Equilibrium:  Intrinsic  carrier  concentration,  dopants,  extrinsic  semiconductor,
distribution  of  carriers,  location  of  Fermi  level;  charge  transport,  drift-diffusion  equation;  non-
equilibrium semiconductor-generation and recombination, ambipolar transport, quasi-Fermi energy.
Semiconductor  Device:  PN-junction  diode,  zero  bias,  reverse  bias,  junction  breakdown,  junction
current,  generation-recombination  current,  charge  storage  and  diode  transient,  zener  diode.  [10
Device  Interface:  Metal  semiconductor  barrier,  Schottky  contact,  Ohmic  contact,  heterojunctions,
MOSFET-C-V characteristics, I-V characteristics, frequency limitation, non-ideal conduction, MOSFET
scaling, channel effects. [7 lectures]
Three  terminal  devices:  Junction  field  effect  transistor,  device  characteristics,  non-deal  effects,
frequency limitation, high electron mobility transistor. [3 lectures]
Optoelectronic devices: Solar cells, photodetectors, light emitting diode, laser diodes. [5 lectures]
Next  Generation  Electronic  devices:  Materials  and  devices  for  Spintronics,  Valleytronics  and
Plasmonics, Organic electronic. [5 lectures]
Laboratory: Band gap of semiconductor, Temperature dependent Hall effect, Temperature dependent
electrical  conductivity  of  doped  semiconductor,  Mobility  of  charge  carrier,  Capacitance-Voltage
measurement, Characterization of solar cell, Quantum efficiency of solar cell, Output characteristic of
I-V  characteristic  of  photodetector  and  phototransistors,  Optical  absorption  and
Photoluminescence,  Report  and/or  presentation  on  Advanced  topics  in  Semiconducting  and
Optoelectronic devices selected by the instructor.
1.  Semiconductor Physics and Devices, Donals A. Neamen
2.  Solid State Electronic Devices, Ben G. Streetman, S. K. Banerjee
1.  Physics of Semiconductor Devices, S. M. Sze
1.  Prof. M. R. Shenoy, Semiconductor Optoelectronics, NPTEL course material, Department of Physics,
IIT Delhi, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/115102026
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The Instructor will:
Introduce physics concepts and principles relevant for medicine and health.
2.  Provide  the  introduction  to  physics  driven  modern  diagnostic  tools  and  various  technology  in  the
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Get deeper insights into impact of physics in medical applications.
2.  Apply physics based principles in the development of medical diagnostics and therapeutic.
Imaging techniques and Image analysis [PHL3XX1]:
(a)  Optical  and  Radiological  Imaging:  Polarization  Microscopy,  Confocal  Microscopy,  Fluorescence
Microscopy and Phase Contrast Microscopy, Breaking the diffraction limit in microscopy, Scanning
near-field  optical  microscopy  (SNOM),  X-ray  imaging  and  computerized  Tomography  (CT),
Radioisotope  imaging,  Positron–emission  Tomography,  Hybrid  imaging  techniques  (SPECT/CT,
(b)  Resonance  imaging  and  Image  analysis:  Principle  of  Nuclear  Magnetic  resonance  and  Magnetic
Resonance  Imaging,  functional  MRI,  Principles  of  Image  analysis  including  Advanced  ML  and  AI
techniques. [14 lectures]
Physics in Medical research and Therapeutic applications [PHL3XX2]:
(a)  Interaction of radiation with matter, Interaction of photons with tissues, molecules, cells and organs,
Bragg’s  Curve,  Elastic  and  inelastic  scattering,  Thomson  and  Compton  Scattering,  Techniques  of
delivering radiation to human body.
(b)  Plasma  for  Medicine  and  Nuclear  Medicine:  Low  temperature  plasma  technology  for  medical
research, Cold plasma applications in Therapeutic, Fundamentals of Nuclear Medicine, Radioactivity,
Production of radionuclides, Radiation therapy for cancer treatment. [14 lectures]
1.  Cho,  Z-H.,  Jones,  J.  and  Singh,  M.  (1993),  Foundations  of  Medical  Imaging,  1st  Edition  Wiley
2.  Pryma, D. A. (2015), Nuclear Medicine, 1st Edition, Oxford University Press
3.  Murphy, D. B. and Davidson, M. W. (2012), Fundamental of Light Microscopy and Electronic Imaging,
2nd Edition, Wiley-Blackwell
4.  Cherry, S. R., Sorenson, S. A. and Phelps M.E. (2012), Physics of Nuclear Medicine, Elsevier Inc.
1.  Bushberg, J. T., J. Anthony S., Edwin M. L., and Boone, j., The Essential Physics of Medical Imaging.
2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001.
1.  Sheet,  D.,  Medical  Image  Analysis,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  IIT  Kharagpur,
Jasanoff,  A.,  MIT  Opencourseware,  Noninvasive
in  Biology  and  Medicine,
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
13.4 Atomic and Subatomic Physics
Physics of Atoms, Molecules and Nuclei
BS in PH
1.  To learn Atomic Physics with a problem solving approach towards atomic physics and spectroscopy.
2.  To understand the stability of nucleus with nucleon interactions.
1.  The  students  will  have  an  understanding  of  quantum  behavior  of  atoms  in  external  electric  and
Hydrogen  atom:  Review  of  time-independent  perturbation  theory.  Fine  structure  of  the  hydrogen
atom  spectra:  Relativistic  correction  to  the  kinetic  energy  and  spin-orbit  coupling  for  one  electrons
systems.  Review  of  the  Dirac  equation.  Dirac  equation  in  the  non-relativistic  limit.  Effect  of  one
electron  system  in  electric  and  magnetic  fields,  introduction  to  Landau  quantization.  Spectroscopy
Hyperfine interaction in atomic Hydrogen. Spectroscopy with the 21 cm emission line.  [10 Lectures]
Line broadening mechanics and Interaction of electromagnetic radiation with a two-level atom: Line
broadening  mechanisms.  Spontaneous  and  stimulated  emissions  and  Einstein  coefficients.  Rabi
flopping. Selection rules and transition probability. Transition probabilities and intensity of spectral
lines. masers and lasers. [10 Lectures]
Many electron   systems and Molecular Physics: Two-electron systems Electron configurations and
spectroscopic notation, equivalent and non-equivalent electrons and Hund's rules. Hartree-Fock SCF
method,  Total  Hamiltonian  of  a  molecule.  Born  -Oppenheimer  approximation.  Rotational  and
Vibrational  Spectra  of  molecules.  Infrared  and  Raman  Spectra  analysis.  The  quantum  treatment  of
Raman effect.  Molecular Orbital and Electronic configuration of Diatomic molecules: H2, C2 and O2;
Vibrational  structure  and  vibrational  analysis,  Dissociation  Energy  of  diatomic  molecules.  [10
Nuclear  Models  and  Nucleon-nucleon  interactions:  Magic  Number,  Shell  model,  Nucleon  mean
potential, Deuteron nuclei potential and dipole moment. Low energy neutron-proton scattering, Spin
dependence of neutron-proton interaction, Non-central force, Low energy proton-proton scattering,
High-energy neutron-proton & proton-proton scattering, Meson theory of nuclear force, Nature of two
nucleon potential. [10 Lectures]
1.  Bransden, B.H. and Joachain, C.J., (2004), Physics of Atoms and Molecules, Prentice Hall, 2nd Edition,
Pearson Education, Delhi
2.  B. L. Cohen, Concepts of Nuclear Physics, Tata Mcgraw Hill Education Private Limited, 2005, Third
1.  Condon, E. U. and Shortley, G. H., (1951), The Theory of Atomic spectra, Cambridge University Press
NPTEL : NOC:Atomic and Molecular Physics (Physics) (digimat.in)
1.  NPTEL: by H.C. Verma Nuclear and Particle Physics
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Modern Physics lab
BS in PH
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the experimental techniques regarding the fundamental concepts of Modern physics using
different measurement techniques.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
2.  Apply the concepts and become familiar with experimental aspects of Modern Physics.
S. No. Name of the Experiment
1.  Recording of Hydrogen Spectra - Rydberg Constant
2.  Zeeman effect- Atom in a magnetic field
3.  Speed of light
4.  Stark effect- Hydrogen atom in an electric field
5.  Dissociation Energy of Iodine molecule (I2) using Rowland Grating
6.  Frank-Hertz Experiment
7.  Charge of Electron- Millikan Oil drop method
8.  Measurement of charge to mass ratio of an electron (e/m ratio)
9.  Measurement of Planck’s Constant
10.  ESR Spectroscopy- Solids
1.  Melissinos Adrian C. and Napolitano J. Experiments in Modern Physics 2003, Academic Press
1.  Manuals of the Experiment.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Nuclear radiation and energy
BS in PH
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the basic physics of nuclear energy and radiation.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the applications of Nuclear radiations.
Introduction to Nuclear Radiation: Nuclear Transition, Multipole expansion of Nuclei, Nuclear Energy
levels, Transition Selection Rules, Nuclear Interactions with matter. [8 Lectures]
Nuclear  detection  and  measurements:  Dosimetry,  Image  plate  and  Nuclear  Calorimeter,  MCP
(Multichannel plates), Single Channel Analyzer (SCA) & Multi-channel analyzer (MCA), Coincidence
counter (CC) and Anti-Coincidence counter (ACC). [5 Lectures]
Nuclear  archaeology:  Radiocarbon  dating  in  archaeology,  Calibration  technique  and  estimation  of
archaeological artifacts. [8 Lectures]
Fission and Fusion reactors: Thorium cycles and Uranium Cycles, Nuclear reactor basics. [7 Lectures]
1.  Cohen B. L., Concepts of Nuclear Physics, McGraw-Hill Publisher, 1971.
2.  Knoll. G., Radiation Detection and Measurement, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2000.
1.  Nuclear Engineering Science, MIT Opencourseware
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Radiation and Particle Detection Lab
BS in PH
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the experimental techniques regarding the concepts of radiation and particle detection
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Apply the concepts and become familiar with experimental aspects of Radiations and Particles.
S. No. Name of the Experiment
1.  Gamma and Alpha Energy resolved measurement
2.  Compton Scattering
3.  Measurement of Dead-time in GM tube
4.  Mass Spectroscopic TOF
5.  Detection of Atmospheric Muon with Scintillator detector
6.  Measurement of muon lifetime
7.  Measurement of half-life of radioactive source
8.  Track Detectors (CR-39)
9.  Spark Chamber
1.  Melissinos Adrian C. and Napolitano J. Experiments in Modern Physics 2003, Academic Press
1.  Manuals of the Experiment.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
EM and Neutrino astronomy
BS in PH
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide basics of elementary particles and different interactions.
2.  Describe observation techniques in astrophysics and its interpretation.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the interactions of elementary particles.
2.  Understand details about multi-wavelength astronomy.
Kinematics  of  high  energy  collisions,  Pi  mesons,  Muons  and  their  properties,  Strange  mesons,
Hyperons, Resonance particles, Fundamental interactions in nature, Quark hypothesis of elementary
particles, Classification of elementary particles, Neutrino oscillation, Conservation laws. [10 Lectures]
Basics of Astronomy:
Celestial  coordinates,  brightness,  absolute  and  relative  magnitude.  Properties  of  stars  with  optical
radiations:  Hertzsprung-Russel  (HR)  diagram,  size,  mass  and  temperature  of  stars.  Reading
Hipparcus catalogue for stars and making the HR diagram for open and closed clusters. [10 Lectures]
Radio, X-ray and gamma-ray Astronomy:
Radio  emission  from  astrophysical  objects,  Radio  HR-diagram,  Radio  emission  from  Pulsars,  H1
emission from Galaxies, Quasars.
X-ray  and  Gamma-ray  radiations  from  high  energy  astrophysics  phenomena:  cataclysmic  variable,
Neutron Stars, Active Galactic nucleus, Gamma ray Bursts, Starburst Galaxies etc. X-ray and gamma-
ray satellite detectors. [10 Lectures]
CR spectrum, Direct and Indirect detection of CRs, Origin of Galactic and Extragalactic CR sources.
Sky-mapping with neutrinos:
Dynamics  of  expansion,  The  cosmic  neutrino  background,  Neutrino  temperature,  Solar  neutrinos,
Supernova neutrinos, Neutrinos as dark matter. Ultra-high energy Neutrinos, Neutrino Telescopes.
1.  Peskin M. E., (2019), Concepts of Elementary Particle Physics, Oxford Master Series.
2.  Unsöld A., and Baschek B., (2002) The New Cosmos - Introduction to Astronomy and Astrophysics,
1.  Zeilik,  Michael,  and  Stephen  A.  Gregory.  Introductory  Astronomy  and  Astrophysics.  4th  ed.  Fort
Worth, TX: Saunders College Publishing, 1997.
1.  Saul  Rappaport.  8.282J  Introduction  to  Astronomy.  Spring  2006.  Massachusetts  Institute  of
Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Entrepreneurship for Physicists
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide students the knowledge about the charms of being an entrepreneur.
2.  Provide the information about entrepreneurship and important theories, models, tools and usage that
could help students transform an idea into business.
The students are expected to:
1.  Clear the doubts and perplexities that physicists have towards everything that is related to business.
2.  Understand the exciting aspects of the entrepreneurial process that brings ideas to market.
Invention  and  Innovation:  Introduction  to  research,  Variables  and  definitions,  Invention  and
Innovation,  Process  and  product  innovation,  Innovation  driven  entrepreneurship,  Technology
intelligence with case studies, Entrepreneurship mind set and culture. [8 Lectures]
Intellectual Property and Early Business Processes: Introduction to IPRs, Patent search & Analytics,
Patent and copyright drafting, Techno-economic feasibility analysis, Understanding business plan and
funding  opportunities  for  entrepreneurs,  Characteristics  of  entrepreneur,  Risk  factors
entrepreneurship, Technology business incubation, Venture capital. [10 Lectures]
Entrepreneurship Tools and Techniques: Ideation based on available resources, Market demands and
societal needs, Hackathon, Pitching, Market push and pull, Project Management Tools & Techniques,
Scheduling  of  Project  Plan,  Project  risk  management,  Effectuation  theory,  Business  canvas,
Introduction to detailed project report (DPR). [10 Lectures]
1.  Davide Iannuzzi “Entrepreneurship for Physicists” Morgan & Claypool Publishers, ISBN: 978-1-6817-
2.  K  Nagarajan  “Project  Management”  New  Age  International  Publishers,  ISBN-13:978-9386286024
3.  David Bainbridge “Intellectual Property” Pearson 10th edition, ISBN-13: 978-1292002644 (2018).
1.  Kunal  Upadhyay  “Hand  book  on  Non  Profit  incubator  Manager’  Handbook  for  Incubator
2.  The  Innovator's  Toolkit:  10  Practical  Strategies  to  Help  You  Develop  and  Implement  Innovation
(Harvard Business Essentials): ISBN-13 978-1-4221-990-9 (2019).
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
13.5 Specialization: Photonics
Fundamentals of Photonics
1.  To understand the fundamental aspects of light wave, its propagation in the medium and concepts of
polarization & image formation.
2.  To understand the principle of light confinement, Wave guiding and propagation through photonic
To provide the foundation of Nonlinear Optics.
1.  The students will become familiar with the interesting concepts of photonics including principles of
polarizers,  waveguides,  resonators  and  fibers;  Also,  provides  a  roadmap  to  develop  specialized
knowledge in the field of photonics.
2.  Understanding of the Light propagation and guidance in photonic crystals and optical fibers.
3.  Understanding of the basic concepts of Nonlinear Optics
Wave  propagation  in  dielectric:  group  velocity  and  dispersion,  pulse  spreading,  plane  wave  and
Helmholtz equation, Gaussian and Bessel beams. [5 Lectures]
Polarization states and representation: Jones vector, Stokes parameters for polarized and unpolarized
light,  Poincare  sphere,  Coherence-  linewidth,  spatial  coherence,  interference  and  applications.  [6
Fourier optics:  free space light propagation, optical Fourier transform, introduction to diffraction of
light, concept of image formation. [5 Lectures]
Optical  Resonators:  mode  and  mode  density,  losses  and  spectral  width,  quality  factor,  light
modulation, mode stability, Fabry-Perot etalon, ring resonators, micro-resonators. [5 Lectures]
waveguides and Photonic crystals: TIR guidance, Modes, conventional wave guides, periodic media
and Bloch waves, concept of photonic bandgap, 1D, 2D and 3D crystals, dispersion relation, PhC wave-
guidance, basics of optical fibers, types of the fibers, Photnic crystal fibers.  [12 Lectures]
Nonlinear  Optics:  Description  of  Nonlinear  optical  processes:  Second  Harmonic  Generation,  Sum
frequency generation, Difference frequency generation, optical parametric oscillation, Third harmonic
generation,  Intensity-Dependent  Refractive  Index,  Saturable  absorption,  two-photon  absorption,
stimulated Raman scattering, Kramers–Kronig Relations in Linear and Nonlinear Optics, four-wave
mixing, concept of soliton. [9 Lectures]
1.  Yariv, A., and Yeh, P., Photonics, Oxford University Press, 2007.
2.  Saleh, B. E. A. and Teich, M. C., Fundamentals of Photonics, Wiley, 2018.
3.  Boyd, R., Introduction to Nonlinear Optics, Third Edition, AP publishing, 2008.
1.  Srinivasan, B., Introduction to Photonics, https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc19_ee20/preview
Reference Course Material
1.  Ghatak, A. K., and Thyagarajan, K., Optical Electronics, Cambridge University Press, 2002.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
1.  This course aims to introduce the basics of Lasers and laser design.
Introducing the state-of-the art laser systems and their industrial applications
1.  Provides students with basic knowledge of laser physics.
2.  Understanding the light-matter interactions
3.  Gain the required knowledge to design advanced lasers.
Introduction: EM Wave equation, Radiation and its quantification, Atomic transitions and radiative
process,  Einstein  relations  and  Planck’s  Law,  principle  of  Lasers,  Laser  Oscillation,  Optical
amplification, Characteristics of Laser light. [6 Lectures]
Light-matter  interactions:  Atomic  Polarizability,  Dielectric  constant,  Electric  Polarization  and
Susceptibility, electron model-classical oscillator, dispersion and complex refractive index [5 Lectures]
Laser Design: Optical resonators, sources of light and pump sources, Lasing mechanisms in 3 and 4
level systems and rate equations, operation of Lasers, Coherence, Laser Line width, optical gain, gain
saturation, hole burning, Line broadening, laser modes, Gaussian Beam and Gouy phase shift, Beam
Quality factor and laser output beam properties. [10 Lectures]
Practical  Lasers  and  applications:  concept  of  CW  lasers  and  Pulsed  Lasers,  Solid  State  Lasers,
Semiconductor  lasers,  Gas  Lasers  (He-Ne,  CO2),  Overview  on  Industrial  Application  of  Lasers
including laser inscription and data storage [7 Lectures]
1.  Siegman, A., Lasers, Mill Valley, Calif. University Science Books, 1986
2.  Yariv A. & Pochi Yeh, Photonics, Oxford University Press, 2006.
3.  Ghatak, A. & Thyagarajan, K., Optical electronics, Cambridge University Press, 2011.
Introduction to Laser by Prof. M. R. Shenoy, IITD. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/115102124
Reference Course Material
1.  Orazio Svelto,  Principles of Lasers, Springer, 2010
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
B. S. Physics
1.  This course aims to introduce the science and technologies of Terhertz radiation.
2.  To provide comprehensive knowledge on THz generation, delivery and detection.
3.  To provide the overview of the state-of-the art Terahertz technologies and applications.
1.  The students will be familiar with the foundation of Terahertz science and Technology.
2.  Understanding of the current THz technologies and appreciate the scope and the challenges for future
development THz technology.
Fundamentals of Terahertz science: Terahertz band, basic theory of Terahertz interaction with matter,
Electromagnetic  Waves  in  Matter,  Electric  Dipole  Radiation,  Terahertz  Radiation  and  Elementary
Excitations. [5 Lectures]
THz  Optics:  Dielectric  Properties  of  Solids  in  the  Terahertz  Region,  Materials  for  Terahertz  Optics,
Optical  components  for  THz  propagation  and  modulation,  Terahertz  Waveguides,  Theory  of
Rectangular  Waveguides,  Dielectric/plastic  Fibers,  Artificial  Materials  at  Terahertz  Frequencies:
Metamaterials, Photonic Crystals, Plasmonics. [12 Lectures]
THz  sources  and  detectors:  BWO  (  backward  wave  oscillator),    klystron,  gyrotron,  Difference
Frequency  Generation  and  Parametric  Amplification,  Frequency  Multiplication  of  Microwaves,
Quantum  Cascade  Lasers,  Generation  of  Terahertz  Pulses  from  Biased  Photoconductive  Antennas,
Optical  Rectification,  Free-Space  Electro-Optic  Sampling,  Bolometer,  Pyroelectric  Detector,  Golay
Cells. [14 Lectures]
THz  Technologies:    Terahertz  spectroscopy,  THz  imaging,  THz  sensing,  THz  frequency  security
system,  Toward  6G  Communication  Networks,  Atmospheric  THz  propagation  and  Terahertz
communications, Industrial applications. [11 Lectures]
1.  THz generation using femtosecond pulses
2.  THz detection through electro-optical sampling
3.  THz bandwidth measurement
4.  THz absorption spectrum for air and Nitrogen
1.  Yun-Shik Lee, Principles of Terahertz Science and Technology, Springer, 2009.
2.  Daryoosh  Saeedkia,  Handbook  of  terahertz  technology  for  imaging,  sensing  and  communications,
Woodhead Publishing Limited, 2013.
Reference Course Material
1.  Ho-Jin  Song,  Tadao  Nagatsuma,  Handbook  of  Terahertz  Technologies:  Devices  and  Applications,
Taylor and Francis Group, 2015.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
1.  This course aims to introduce working principles and applications of Photonic devices.
2.  To provide a comprehensive overview of the state-of-the art photonic components and devices.
1.  The course provides students with basic knowledge of components for light based technologies.
2.  Students  will  be  familiar  with  necessary  knowledge  of  working  principles  on  future  All  Photonic
Lightwave  components  and  devices:  Optical  directional  coupler-coupling  length,  coefficient’s,
applications: photonic switches; optical routers, optical amplifiers-Er doped fiber amplifier, Dielectric
waveguides, Planar waveguide and strip waveguide, splicers, connectors. [10 Lectures]
Light  modulation  components  and  devices:  Birefringence,  Acousto-optic  effect,  Raman-Nath  AO
modulator,  Bragg  Modulator,  Electro-optic  effect,  Electro-optic  crystals,  Kerr  modulator,  Magneto-
optic effect, Isolators, Electro-absorption modulator, optical modulators, SLM, Quantum Modulators.
Advanced  Photonic  components  and  devices:  Photonic  crystal  fibers,  Fiber  optic  sensors,    Optical
detectors,  Nonlinear  optical  devices,  power  limiters,  Optics  on  chip,  ultrafast  laser  and  direct  laser
writing, Lifi, Fiber Bragg grating, Laser Tweezers and scissors.  [10 Lectures]
1.  Optical coupler and characterization
2.  Fiber Bragg grating and characterization
3.  Study of Electro-optic effect (Kerr effect)
4.  Light modulation with SLM
5.  Birefringence/beat length measurement of a polarization maintaining optical fiber
6.  Splicing optical fiber and studying splice loss
7.  Optical power limiting by nonlinear optical material
1.  Ghatak, A. & Thyagarajan, K., Optical electronics, Cambridge University Press, 2011.
2.  Shun Lien Chuang, Physics of Photonic Devices, Wiley publisher, Second edition, 2009.
Integrated Photonics Devices and Circuits by Prof. Bijoy Krishna Das, IITM
Reference Course Material
1.  Saleh, B. E. A. and Teich, M. C., Fundamentals of Photonics, Wiley, 2018.
John Wilson and John Hawkes, Optoelectronics, Pearson, Third edition, 2019.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The Instructor will provide:
1.  The concepts regarding optical aberrations and theory of diffraction.
2.  Basic understanding of optical instruments using Fourier Optics and their common applications.
The students are expected to have the ability:
1.  To gain the knowledge to correct optical aberrations in the optical instruments.
2.  To evaluate and estimate the processes involving the Incoherent and partial coherent light.
Geometrical  Optics  and  Diffraction:  Paraxial  Ray  Optics,  optical  aberrations,  Fresnel-Kirchhoff’s
diffraction, Scalar theory of diffraction Diffraction of Aperture: Square, Rectangle, Circular, Fresnel
and Fraunhofer diffraction. [14 Lectures]
Partially  coherent  light:  Mutual  Coherence  and  Degree  of  Coherence,  Propagation  of  Partially
Coherent Light, Cross-Spectral Density Function, van cittert -Zernike theorem. [8 Lectures]
Fourier Optics: Convolution, spatial correlation, optical filtering, spatial filtering and optical transfer
function (OTF), point split function (PSF), ex: microscope, Image Formation, Frequency Analysis.
Introduction to optical instruments:  Spectrometers, monochromators, Polarimeters and detectors. [6
1.  Contemporary Optics, Ghatak and Thyagarajan
1.  Optics by Born & Wolf (7th edition)
2.  K K Sharma, Optics: Principles and Applications, Academic Press 2006.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The Instructor will provide:
1.  This course aims to introduce the concept of light interaction with biological matter.
2.  To  provide  comprehensive  knowledge  on  existing  tissue  and  cell  engineering  through  photonic
3.  To provide the overview of the state-of-the art Bio-imaging and Bio-sensing techniques.
The students are expected to have the ability:
1.  The students will be familiar with the foundation of Biophotonics.
2.  Understanding of the Biophotonic tools and techniques for interdisciplinary applications.
Introduction:  Biophotonics  a  new  frontier,  nature  of  light,  quantized  states  of  matter,  introductory
concepts  of  biology,  various  types  of  cells,  cellular  structure,  interactions  determining  three-
dimensional  structures  of  biopolymers,  cellular  processes,  protein  classification  and  function,
organization of cells into tissues, types of tissues and their functions, tumors and cancers. [5 Lectures]
Fundamentals of Light–Matter Interactions: Interactions between light and a molecule, interaction of
light  with  a  bulk  matter,  fate  of  excited  state,  the  various  spectroscopies  useful  for  biophotonics:
electronic absorption spectroscopy, electronic luminescence spectroscopy, vibrational spectroscopy,
spectroscopy  utilizing  optical  activity  of  chiral  media,  fluorescence  correlation  spectroscopy.        [6
Photobiology: interaction of light with cells, interaction of light with tissues, in vivo photoexcitation,
methods of light delivery for in vivo photoexcitation, optical biopsy. [4 Lectures]
Biomaterials  for  Photonics:  Bioderived  materials,  bioinspired  materials,  biotemplates,  bacteria  as
biosynthesizers for photonic polymer. [4 Lectures]
Bioimaging:  Principles  and  techniques  for  optical  methods  of  imaging:  transmission  microscopy,
fluorescence  microscopy,  scanning  microscopy,  confocal  microscopy,  multiphoton  microscopy,
optical  coherence  tomography,  low  coherence  interferometry,  Angle  resolved  interferometry  for
biological  tissue  imaging,  near-field  optical  microscopy,  fluorescence  lifetime  imaging  microscopy
(film), nonlinear optical imaging. [11 Lectures]
Biophotonics  Applications:  Optical  biosensors-  fiber  optic  biosensors,  planar  waveguide  biosensor,
evanescent  wave  biosensors,  spr  biosensor,  flow  cytometry:  basic  steps,  the  components,  optical
response, photodynamic therapy and applications, tissue engineering with light: tissue engineering
and  light  activation,  laser  tissue  contouring  and  restructuring,  laser  tissue  welding,  femtolaser
surgery, Lab-on-a-Chip Technology. [12 Lectures]
1.  Paras N. Prasad, Introduction to BioPhotonics Wiley, 2003.
2.  Gerd Keiser, Biophotonics Concepts to Applications, Springer, 2016.
Jürgen  Popp,  Valery  V.  Tuchin,  Arthur  Chiou,  Stefan  H.  Heinemann,  Hand  book  of  Biophotonics,
1.  Biophotonics by Prof Basudev Lahiri https://nptel.ac.in/courses/127105225
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The Instructor will provide:
1.  This course aims to introduce light interaction with metals.
2.  To provide comprehensive knowledge on Surface plasmon polaritons, localized surface plasmons and
3.  To  provide  the  overview  of  the  state-of-the  art  SERS  based  techniques  and  other  plasmonic
The students are expected to have the ability:
1.  The students will be familiar with the foundation of Plasmonics and functional devices.
2.  Understanding the plasmonic enabled technologies including sensing and imaging.
Electromagnetics  of  Metals:  Maxwell’s  Equations  and  Electromagnetic  Wave  Propagation,  Drude
model,  The Dielectric Function of the Free Electron Gas, The Dispersion of the Free Electron Gas and
Volume Plasmons, Mie theory, Drude–Sommerfeld Model, Drude–Lorentz Model, Real Metals and
Interband Transitions, The Energy of the Electromagnetic Field in Metals.  [8 Lectures]
Surface  Plasmon  Polaritons:    Surface  Plasmon  Polaritons  at  a  Single  Interface,  Multilayer  Systems,
Energy Confinement and the Effective Mode Length, excitation of surface plasmon polaritons, Prism
Coupling, Grating Coupling, Near-Field Excitation, other coupling schemes, imaging surface plasmon
polariton propagation. [10 Lectures]
Localized surface Plasmons: Normal Modes of Sub-Wavelength Metal Particles, Mie Theory, Beyond
the Quasi-Static Approximation and Plasmon Lifetime, Observations of Particle Plasmons, Coupling
Between Localized Plasmons. [6 Lectures]
Plasmon waveguides: Rectangular Hollow Metallic Waveguides and Resonators, Waveguide Modes,
behaviors of TE and TM Modes, Solutions for TEmn and TMmn Modes,  Attenuation in Rectangular
Waveguides, Excitation of Waveguides by Probes, Loops, and Slots , Rectangular Cavity Resonators,
Transverse Magnetic TMmnp Resonator Modes, Quality Factor, Planar Elements for Surface Plasmon
Polariton  Propagation,  Surface  Plasmon  Polariton  Band  Gap  Structures,  Surface  Plasmon  Polariton
Propagation  Along  Metal  Stripes,  Localized  Modes  in  Gaps  and  Grooves,  Metal  Nanoparticle
Waveguides. [10 Lectures]
Plasmonics  Applications:  enhancement  of  emissive  processes  SERS  basics,  SERS  in  the  Picture  of
Cavity Field Enhancement, SERS Geometries, Enhancement of Fluorescence, Luminescence of Metal
Nanostructures  and  bioimaging  applications,  Spectroscopy,  sensing  and  metamaterials,
photodynamic therapy. [8 Lectures]
1.  Stefan Alexander Maier, Plasmonics: Fundamentals and Applications, Springer, 2007.
2.  Liudmila Nickelson, Electromagnetic Theory and Plasmonics for Engineers, Springer, 2019.
1.  Sabine Szunerits, Rabah Boukherroub, Introduction to Plasmonics, Pan Stanford Publishing, 2015.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
The Instructor will provide:
1.  This course aims to introduce fundamentals and working mechanisms of light emitting diodes.
2.  To provide comprehensive knowledge on LED device structure and their classifications.
3.  To provide the overview of the state-of-the art and advanced LEDs for various applications.
The students are expected to have the ability:
1.  The students will be familiar with the materials for LED devices and their characteristics.
2.  Understanding the various existing LEDs and their speciality applications.
3.  They will acquire knowledge on design and development of advanced LEDs for future applications.
Radiative and non-radiative processes: Electroluminescence, Radiative electron−hole recombination,
Radiative recombination for low-level and high-level excitations, Luminescence decay, Non-radiative
recombination  in  the  bulk  and  surfaces,  Competition  between  radiative  and  non-radiative
recombination, Theory of radiative recombination. [7 Lectures]
LED basics-Electrical and Optical:   Diode current–voltage characteristic, Carrier distribution in p-n
homojunctions  and  heterojunctions,  Electron  injection  and  blocking  layers,  EL  spectrum,  Radiation
pattern,  internal  and  external  quantum  efficiency  measurements,  The  lambertian  emission  pattern,
Temperature dependence of emission intensity.  [12 Lectures]
LED Design parameters: Device structure, Junction and carrier temperatures, High internal efficiency
designs,  Doping  of  the  confinement  regions,  Design  of  current  flow,  High  extraction  efficiency
structures, Light Output per LED, Reflectors. [6 Lectures]
Types of LEDs: Flashing LEDs, Visible-spectrum LEDs (GaAsP, GaP, GaAsP:N, and GaP:N, AlGaAs
/GaAs, AlGaInP /GaAs and GaInN material systems), Organic LEDs, polymer LEDs, UV LEDs, LED
lasers-Spontaneous  emission  from  resonant  cavities,  Resonant-cavity  light-emitting  diodes,  White-
light sources based on LEDs.  [7 Lectures]
Advanced LEDs and Applications: LEDs and Lighting - LED Light bulbs, High-Brightness (HB) LEDs,
LEDs in communications-IR Remote Operation (TV Remote Control, Remote Control LEDs), LEDs for
fiber-optic communication, Ethernet Networking, LED Displays, UV LED applications in Health care
and water treatment.  [10 Lectures]
1.  E. Fred Schubert, Light-Emitting Diodes, Cambridge University Press, Second edition, 2006.
2.  Gilbert Held, Introduction to Light Emitting Diode Technology and Applications, CRC Press, 2009.
1.  Semiconductor optoelectronics (Lecture 27 to 31) by Prof. Shenoy, IITD.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
13.6 Specialization: Advanced Energy Materials
Materials for Energy Technologies
The Instructor will:
Introduce different energy/power generation systems and emphasize on the need of materials and its
engineering for these systems/sub-systems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Get aware of different energy generation systems and their functioning.
2.  Materials  related  issues  and  challenges  in  such  energy  technologies  and  engineering  pathways
towards their mitigation.
PHL6XX1 (Conventional Energy systems) [1-0-0]
1.  Building  blocks  of  conventional  energy  systems  (Coal  and  Hydro-  energy  power  plants),  working
mechanism of different components and thermodynamics of these system. [5 lectures]
2.  Need  of  materials  with  specific  characteristics,  Generation  block,  transmission  block,  Materials  for
high voltage transformers, Turbine materials. [9 lectures]
PHL6XX2 (Solar thermal and solar photovoltaic systems) [1-0-0]
1.  Solar  thermal  system/sub-systems  as  a  power  generation  unit.  Need  of  materials  in  solar-thermal
subsystems: Issues and Challenges, Materials for collectors, reflectors, thermal fluid, storage materials,
and structure [7 lectures]
2.  Solar photovoltaic system/sub-systems as a power generation unit, Need of materials for photovoltaic
cells, issues and challenges, Materials for electrical storage, Structure. [7 lectures]
PHL6XX3 (Wind, Geothermal and Nuclear Energy systems) [1-0-0]
1.  Wind and Geothermal energy generation sub-systems/systems, need of materials for designing wind
blades for different environmental conditions, and geothermal systems. [8 lectures]
2.  Nuclear power generations systems/sub-systems, mechanism and materials requirement for source,
safety materials issues and challenges, high temperature materials for thermal management, materials
for managing nuclear reactions. [6 lectures]
1.  Sukhatme S. P. and Nayak J. K., Solar Energy: Principles of Thermal Collection and Storage, McGraw-
2.  Duffie J. A. and Beckmann W. A, Solar Engineering of Thermal Processes, 3rd Ed John Wiley 2006
1.  Online review papers in various journals.
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Online NPTL and MIT courses.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Fabrication and Characterization of Devices
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the knowledge to recognize an energy harvesting device.
2.  Provide the information about the tools to characterize the energy harvesting devices.
The students are expected to:
1.  To fabricate nanomaterials based devices.
2.  To characterize the device.
Synthesis and characterization of metal nanomaterials
Synthesis and characterization of semiconducting nanomaterials
Fabrication of micropatterns by lithographic techniques
4.  Fabrication and characterization of solar cells
6.  Fabrication and characterization of supercapacitors
fabrication and characterization of batteries
T. Pradeep, A Textbook of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, 2012, Tata McGraw Hill Education Private
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Hydrogen Generation, Storage and Applications
The Instructor will:
1.   Provide knowledge about hydrogen energy, various ways of its production and storage.
2.  Provide  the  role  of  materials  in  hydrogen  generation,  storage  and  uses  of  different  hydrogen
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand the fundamentals of hydrogen technology, using it as a way to store energy.
2.  Gain  a  better  understanding  of  thermodynamics,  electrochemistry  and  their  applications  to  energy
conversion and storage.
3.  Learn  how  various  materials  can  be  exploited  to  realize  the  production  of  green  hydrogen  and  its
storage for various applications.
4.  Understand theoretical and practical limits of hydrogen energy conversion among various forms and
Introduction: Renewable Energy Sources, Fundamentals of hydrogen energy, Relevance of hydrogen
in relation to depletion of fossil fuels and environmental considerations, Various types of hydrogen
based on its ways of production. Various factors relevant to safety, use of Hydrogen as Fuel.
Hydrogen  Generation:  Methods  for  sustainable  hydrogen  generation,  electrochemical  and
photoelectrochemical  water  splitting,  working  mechanism  of  electrochemical  water  splitting,  HER
mechanism,  OER  mechanism,  Physics  of  material  characteristics  for  production  of  hydrogen,
electrochemical  potential,  artificial  photosynthesis,  Parameters  for  assessing  the  electrochemical
performance: Tafel slope, electrochemical active surface area, turnover frequency, Faradaic efficiency.
Hydrogen Storage: Hydrogen storage methods, compressed hydrogen, liquid hydrogen, Cryogenic
hydrogen  storage,  Physical  and  Chemical  storage  of  hydrogen,  special  features  of  solid  hydrogen
storage  materials,  Structural  and  electronic  characteristics  of  storage  materials,  Carbon  storage
materials, Metallic and complex hydrides, New Storage Modes. [12 Lectures]
Hydrogen Applications: Hydrogen in industry, Hydrogen for Electricity Generation, Introduction and
overview  of  Fuel  Cells,  Various  type  of  Fuel  Cells,  Working  Mechanism  of  Fuel  Cells,
Thermodynamics  and  reaction  kinetics  of  fuel  cells,  Fuel  cell  characterization,  Applications  of  Fuel
Cell, Voltage generation in a fuel cell, Fuel cell modeling and system integration, Elementary concepts
of other Hydrogen Based devices such as Hydride Batteries. [12 Lectures]
1.  Hydrogen as an Energy Carrier Technologies Systems Economy: Winter, C. J. and Joachim Nitsch.
2.  Hydrogen Fuel Production, Transport, and Storage Edited by Ram B . Gupta CRC Press 2008.
1.  Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Production 2 Vol Set 2nd Edt. by Lipman TE, Springer.
2.  Hydrogen as a Future Energy Carrier: Andreas Zuttel, Andreas Borgschulte and Louis Schlapbach.
3.  Fuel  Cells  Principles,  Design,  and  Analysis  By  Shripad  T.  Revankar,  Pradip  Majumdar,  CRC  Press
Online Course Materials
1.  NPTEL Course on Fuel Cell Technology by Prof. S. Basu, Dr. Anil Verma.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
2.  Prof. Pal K., NPTEL Course Material, Hydrogen Production from Electrolysis, Mechanical and
Industrial Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee,
3.  Prof. Pal K., NPTEL Course Material, Hydrogen Storage, Mechanical and Industrial Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee,
to be added here
Preparatory Course Material
NPTEL  Course  on  Fuel  Cell  Technology  by  Prof.  S.  Basu,  Dr.  Anil  Verma.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Electrical Energy Storage Materials and Devices
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  the  knowledge  about  the  principles  and  configurations  of  conventional  and  advanced
electrical energy storage devices.
2.  Provide the role of materials in electrical energy storage and conversion technologies.
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand  how  the  fundamental  properties  of  materials  can  be  exploited  to  realize  an  electrical
energy storage device.
2.  Understand the working mechanisms of various existing electrical energy storage technologies as well
as emerging technologies of the field.
Introduction: Historical background, Overview of Electrical Energy Storage Materials and Devices,
Ragone Plot, Chemical and Electrochemical reactions, primary and secondary batteries, Applications
of Batteries and Supercapacitors. [6 Lectures]
Batteries:  Battery  Components,  Working  Mechanism,  Gibbs  Free  Energy,  electrochemical  potential,
Battery  Parameters:  Charge  Capacity,  Specific  Energy,  Specific  Power,  Energy  density,  Amp  hour
efficiency,  C-rate,  Columbic  efficiency,  Operating  Voltage,  Self-discharge.  Theoretical  capacity  of
battery, Intercalation and Conversion Materials. [9 Lectures]
Battery  Technologies:  Lead-Acid  battery,  Nickel-Cadmium  battery,  Metal-ion  batteries:  Lithium,
Sodium  and  Potassium,  Li-Polymer  batteries,  Multivalent  metal-ion  batteries:  Magnesium,
Aluminum, Zinc. Metal-air battery, Redox-flow battery, Photo rechargeable battery. [12 Lectures]
Supercapacitors:  Difference  between  Supercapacitor  and  Battery,  Working  Mechanism,  Electrolyte
and Electrode materials, Characterization of Supercapacitors, Types of Supercapacitor: Electric double
layer capacitor, Pseudo supercapacitor and Hybrid Supercapacitor. Technical Challenges.  [9 Lectures]
Technical  Challenges:  Thermal  runaway,  Dendrite  formation,  Voltage  limits.  Electrolytes:  Liquid,
Polymer gel, Solid, Solid-polymer, Physics of electrolytes, Electrode material modeling, Future trends.
1.   Reiner Korthauer (Ed), Lithium-Ion Batteries: Basics and Applications, Springer (2013).
2.  Cheong,K.Y., Impellizzeri,G., and Fraga, M.A. Emerging Materials for Energy Conversion and Storage,
1st Edition, Elsevier (2018)
1.  Rosen M. A. Energy Storage, Nova (2012)
2.  Robert A. Huggins, Advanced Batteries, Springer (2009)
Online Course Materials
1.  Prof. Bazant M., MITopencourseware: Electrochemical Energy Systems, MIT Course Number 10.626 /
2.  Prof.  Pal  K.,  Selection  Of  Nanomaterials  For  Energy  Harvesting  And  Storage  Application,  NPTEL
Institute  of  Technology  Roorkee,
Course  Material,  Mechanical  Engineering,
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
1.  Tester W.J., et al., Fundamentals of Advanced Energy Conversion, MIT open course,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Maiti, H.S., Lithium Ion Battery, NPTEL Video Lecture
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Solar Resource Assessment and Its Management
The Instructor will:
Introduce physics of solar radiation covering the blackbody radiation and UV catastrophe, Sun-Earth
realtions, Sun observer raltions and collector orientation and shading effects with resource data and
measurements, its analysis, and prediction using ML and AI.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Obtain  a  flavor  of  solar  resource  data,  its  measurement  with  its  utility  for  solar  thermal  and
photovoltaic power plant applications.
2.  Management of data, handling and use of ML/AI for its prediction.
PHL6XX1 (Basics of Sun-Earth Relationship and solar radiation) [1-0-0]
a)  Meteorology  explaining  the  angular  relations  between  Sun-Earth  system,  Sun  observable  angles,
collector-Sun angles, Earth’s tilted axis and cosine projection effect, Conversion of solar time to angle
to watch time, Making and Reading of a Sun chart Orientation of collector/PV modules, Air-Masses.
b)  Laws of light, spectral reflectance or Albedo, Irradiance principles, Global/diffuse irradiation, DNI,
DHI, GHI, radiation resources for energy conversion. [9 lectures]
PHL6XX2 (Measurement of solar radiation and data analysis) [1-0-0]
a)  Principles of irradiance measurements, Instruments for solar radiation measurements: pyranometers,
pyrheliometers, calibration of these measurement units, other instruments, Measurement uncertainty.
b)  Measurement station design consideration, location in India, Data acquisition, data communication,
Data quality control, data correction, data quality assessment. [7 lectures]
PHL6XX3 (Modeling/prediction of Solar Radiation) [1-0-0]
a)  Modeling clear sky solar radiation, physics based models, empirical models, parameterization models,
modeling global irradiance under all sky conditions, correlation models, cloud observations, empirical
all sky radiation models. [6 lectures]
b)  Missing component modeling, estimation of diffuse irradiance from GHI, direct irradiance from GNI.
Application of ML and AI in solar radiation prediction. [8 lectures]
1.  Daryl M Myers, Solar Radiation, CRC-Press, 2013
2.  Lucien Wald, Fundamentals of Solar Radiation, CRC Press, 2020
Jan Kleissl, Solar Energy Forecasting and Resource Assessment,  2013
1.  Sengupta et al Best Fractices Handbook for the collection and use of solar resource data for solar energy
applictions, NREL Report.
2.  Online review papers in various journals.
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Online NPTL Courses.
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
13.7 Specialization: Quantum Technologies
Quantum Communication Laboratory
The Instructor will:
Introduce the students to quantum communication and quantum key distribution experiments.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand and appreciate the experimental aspects of quantum optics and quantum
Is List of Experiments (related to quantum effects, Bell state measurement, Entanglement generation etc.)
1.  Test of QNRG with NIST suite ( 2 lab sessions, 6-8 tests)
2.  FPGA based symmetric and anti-symmetric QKD generation
3.  Experiments with QKD at components levels
4.  Free space quantum communication up to 30 meters with single photon and analysis
5.  Experiments with phase-shift key protocol in QKD  experiments or quantum communication
6.  Unbalanced homodyne detection and Wigner distribution of an given coherent light and its analysis
7.  Optical simulation module for Satellite based communication
1.  Beck, M., (2012) Quantum Mechanics: Theory and Experiment, Oxford Univ. Press
Alber, G., Beth, Th., Horodecki, M., Horodecki, P., Horodecki, R., Rötteler, M., Weinfurter, H.,
Werner, R., Zeilinger, A., (2001) Quantum Information, An Introduction to Basic Theoretical
Concepts and Experiments, Springer-Verlag
BS in Physics with Specialization
Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Quantum Devices and Circuits
The Instructor will:
1.   Provide background in Quantum Devices and Circuits
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Understand the basic concepts in quantum devices and circuits and apply these concepts to solve the related
Quantum hardware review and Circuit implementation:
implementation  based  on  atoms/ions/molecules,
superconducting  junctions,  Superconductivity,  Josephson  Effects  and  Superconducting  Electronics,
Circuits and resonance; circuit quantization, charge, flux, and phase qubits; transmons, Single-qubit
and  two-qubit    gate  theory  experimental  implementation,  gate  errors;  Qubit  readout;  dispersive
measurement;  parametric  amplification,  variational  quantum  circuits  and  its  applications  ,  optical
analog of quantum circuits and implementation.  [20 Lectures]
Weak Measurements and Decoherence: Weak measurement and feedback, decoherence mechanisms,
Fluxonium, c-shunt flux qubits and Novel architectures, POVM, Non-demolition measurements and
quantum noise.  [12 Lectures]
Spin systems, Spin Defects: NV centers, other color centers, optical readout, sensing & magnetometry
and introduction quantum sensing & Quantum MEMS, Single photon detectors. [10 Lectures]
1.  Chen Goong, Church David A.,  Englert Berthold-Georg,  Carsten Henkel, Rohwedder Bernd Scully
Marlan O.,  (2006)  Principles, Designs and Analysis of Quantum Computing Devices, Chapman &
-End of file-