Title of Event :- Research Colloquium Talk by Dr. Shaily Verma
Date of start of event :-  10th January, 2025
Details of event :-
Speaker : Dr. Shaily Verma
Title of the Talk : Algorithmic Advances in Graph Coloring: A Focus on Grundy Coloring
Date, Time and venue : 10th January 2025, 3:00 PM - 4:00 PM, at Seminar Hall, Dept of
Abstract  :  Graph  coloring  is  a  central  problem  in  combinatorial  optimization  with
numerous applications in scheduling, register allocation, and frequency assignment. In this
talk, I will center on my research contributions in graph coloring problems, particularly my
recent  work  in  parameterized  complexity  of  the  partial  Grundy  coloring  problem.  The
partial  Grundy  coloring  problem  aims  to  color  the  vertices  of  a  given  graph  with  a
maximum number of colors under certain constraints. This problem is difficult to solve in
polynomial time for general graphs. In other words, partial Grundy coloring is NP-hard for
general graphs. This computational difficulty motivates my research on the parameterized
complexity of the problem. Parameterized complexity classifies computational problems
based on their inherent difficulty with respect to different problem parameters.
To  address  these  computational  challenges,  recently,  I  (with  co-authors)  studied  the
parameterized  complexity  of  the  partial  Grundy  coloring  problem  and  showed  that  the
problem is solvable in “polynomial time” with respect to the parameter as the number of
colors  used.  This  talk  will  present  a  fixed-parameter  tractable  algorithm  for  the  partial
Grundy coloring problem, offering efficient solutions when parameterized by the number
of  colors.  These  findings  advance  our  understanding  of  graph  coloring's  computational
About  the  speaker  :  Dr.  Shaily  Verma  is  a  post-doctoral  researcher  at  Hasso  Plattner
Institute  in  Germany.  Her  research  in  theoretical  computer  science  broadly  focuses  on
graph  algorithms.  Her  research  interests  include  parameterized  complexity,  exact
algorithms,  and  graph  theory.  Earlier,  she  worked  as  a  postdoctoral  researcher  at  the
Institute  of  Mathematical  Sciences  in  Chennai.  She  obtained  her  Ph.D.  from  the
Department of Mathematics, IIT Delhi.