Photo Credits: C. Chhatwani
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur 342037
C. V. R. Murty, Associate Dean (Faculty)
Suril V. Shah, Associate Dean (Academics)
Rakesh K. Sharma, Associate Dean (R&D)
Samanwita Pal, Associate Dean (Students)
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad
Copyright © 2018, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (www.iitj.ac.in). All rights reserved.
Vision & Mission
Board of Governors
Buildings and Works Committee
Departments and Associated Faculty Members
Collaborations with Academia
Collaborations with Industry
R & D Projects
Patents & Publications
Awards & Recognitions
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of Days of National Importance
Visitors to the Institute
Inter-IIT Sports Meet
Primary Health Center
Student Fests & Events
Student Counseling Service
Student Placement Cell
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
The  ninth  year  of  the  existence  of  the  Institute  has  been  a  year  of  contemplation
and reflection, and the Institute took silent steps… It consolidated its ongoing initiatives
and  made  some  new  beginnings  towards  development.  In  particular,  the  Institute
moved its entire operations to its Permanent Campus located on NH 65 Nagaur Road in
Karwad  Village  (in  Jodhpur  District)  by  August  2017.  With  the  crossing  of  this  major
milestone, the Institute is making efforts to stabilize its activities and looking forward to
starting  five  new  academic  programs  –  B.Tech.  (Biotechnology),  M.Tech.  (BB),  M.Tech.
(CSE) and M.Tech. (MT), and Ph.D. (MT) from Academic Year 2018-19. Also, the Institute
has  increased  its  intake  from  40  to  60  in  the  B.Tech.  Programs,  from  10  to  20  in  M.Sc.
12 new Faculty Members and 11 new Staff Members joined the fraternity  of IIT
Jodhpur  during  this  year.  Students  have  reorganized  their  Gymkhana  activities  by
reshaping  their  societies  and  clubs,  and  by  formally  adopting  a  renewed  written
Constitution for the Students Gymkhana.
The work towards Phase 1 Development of the Permanent Campus was completed
by  Central  Public  Works  Department,  in  association  with  M/s  NCC  Limited,  for  an
amount of Rs. 496 Crores; the work towards Phase 2 Development commenced in October
2017 with M/s Tata Projects Limited for an amount of Rs. 549 Crores.
Going  forward,  the  Institute  will  re-group  its  focus,  and  continue  to  make
improvements in the quality of teaching-learning processes.
C. V. R. Murty
Vision, Mission & Core Values
The Institute shall
(1)  Promote technology thought and action, and
(2)  Prepare needed technical human resources to meet the technology challenges of the
The Institute shall
(1)  Create a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research,
invention and eventually innovation; and
(2)  Prepare each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere
to its core values:
(a)  Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand Challenges of
(b)  Train active functionaries of a process driven professional institute;
(c)  Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive academic institute; and
(d)  Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as possible for
economic value creation.
The Institute stands for a set of core values, wherein each member of the IIT Jodhpur
(1)  Uphold highest levels of human integrity and dignity;
(2)  Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute;
(3)  Work towards building the most admired technology Institute furthering interests of
Students, Industries and Society;
(4)  Commit  to  economic  development  of  India  through  technological  thought  and
(5)  Be ethical, sincere and open in all transactions; and
(6)  Be  continually  responsible  for  upholding  utmost  confidentiality  of  all  information
and circumstances arising out of any interaction.
Under  the  broad  umbrella  of  IIT  Council,  IIT  Jodhpur  functions  under  the
guidance of the following statutory bodies.
(1) Board of Governors;
(2) Finance Committee;
(3) Senate; and
(4) Buildings & Works Committee.
The following organogram represents the broad administrative structure of the
Institute, at policy level.
Member details of these Statutory Bodies are given in the pages to follow.
BOARD  OF  GOVERNORS
C. V. R. Murty
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad
1.  Director (Ex-officio)
C. V. R. Murty
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
1.  Pankaj Chandra
Indian Institute of Management
2.  N. S. Vyas
Chairman, Technology Mission for Indian Railways
Ministry of Railways
Government of India
New Delhi 110001
3.  Kiran Karnik
Former President, NASSCOM
S-315 Panchsheel Park
New Delhi 110017
4.  D. R. Mehta
Founder & Chief Patron
Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti
Main Malviya Nagar
State Government Nominee
1.  Principal Secretary
Higher & Technical Education
Main Building Secretariat
Government of Rajasthan
C. V. R. Murty
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad
1.  C. V. R. Murty
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad
2.  Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development
Government of India
New Delhi 110001
3.  Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development
Government of India
New Delhi 110001
4.  G. S. Sood, IDAS
House No. 1090
5.  S. S. Bhandari
Director, Non-Executive Director on the Board
Bank of Baroda
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme
6.  Gaurav Harit
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
C. V. R. Murty  Chairman
Pratap Bhanu Mehta  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
H. P. Khincha  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Sanjeev Misra  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Head, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Head, Department of Physics
Chairman’s Nominee from Departments
Professor B. P. Kashyap
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Associate Dean (Faculty)
Associate Dean (R&D)
Associate Dean (Academics)
Associate Dean (Students)
Chairperson, Student Hostel Warden Committee
Chairperson, Library Committee
Chairperson, Student Counselling Services Committee
Chairperson, Admissions Committee
Secretary, Academics and Careers Society, Students Gymkhana
General Secretary, Students Gymkhana
BUILDINGS  AND  WORKS  COMMITTEE
1.  C. V. R. Murty
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad
1.  Usha Kasana
Public Works Department
Government of Rajasthan
Jacob Road, Civil Lines
2.  R. K. Govil
Additional Director General Civil (Retd.), CPWD
26, Ankur Apartments
7, I.P. Extension
3.  V. K. Bansal
Chief Engineer Electrical (Retd.), CPWD
721 Sky Lark Apartment,
Sector-6, Plot No.35, Dwarka
New Delhi 110075
4.  B. Ravindra
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
At  the  implementation  level,  the  Institute  has  organized  its  activities  through
various key functionaries, as depicted in the organogram below.
Abbreviations of Key Functionaries
AD  Associate Dean
PiC  Professor in-Charge
AO  Administrative Officer
SEE  Senior Executive Engineer
DL  Deputy Librarian
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow.
C. V. R. Murty
C. V. R. Murty  Faculty
Rakesh K. Sharma  Research & Development
Suril V. Shah  Academics
Samanwita Pal  Students
Heads of the Departments
Ritu Gupta  Chemistry
Gaurav Harit  Computer Science & Engineering
Anil K. Tiwari  Electrical Engineering
Vidya Sarveswaran  Humanities & Social Sciences
Gaurav Bhatnagar  Mathematics
Kaushal A. Desai  Mechanical Engineering
Subhashish Banerjee  Physics
Professors In-Charge of Departments
Madhu Dikshit  Bioscience & Bioengineering
B. P. Kashyap  Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Chairman / Chairperson
Gaurav Bhatnagar  Admissions Committee
Shankar Manoharan  Alumni Relations Committee
B. P. Kashyap  Best B.Tech. Project Thesis Evaluation Committee
Rakesh K. Sharma  Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment
K. J. George  Ethics Committee
Associate Dean (Faculty)  Fellowship Application Evaluation Committee
Advisor (Administration)  Financial, Administration & Infrastrcuture Committee
V. Narayanan  Grievance Redressal Committee
Anil K. Tiwari  House Allotment Committee
Industry Immersion Program
Institute Lectures Committee
Internal Complaints Committee
Kaushal A. Desai
Satyajit Sahu  Library Committee
Nirmal K. Rana  Medical Services Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli  Scholarships and Prizes Committee
Ankita Sharma  Student Counselling Services Committee
Puneet Sharma  Student Hostel Warden Committee
Sandip Murarka  Student Placement Committee
Associate Dean (Academics)  Students Disciplinary Action Committee
Associate Dean (Students)  Anti-Ragging Committee
Associate Dean (Students)  COTPA Committee
Associate Dean (Faculty)  House Allotment Disciplinary Action Committee
Associate Dean (R&D)  Research Publication Committee
Ananya Debnath  Nodal Officer, Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Appala Naidu Gandi  Nodal Officer for OBC, PwD, and Minorities
Atul Kumar  Green Initiative Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar  Transparency Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar  National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF)
Gaurav Harit  Chief Vigilance Officer
Kshema Prakash  Women Cell Officer
Meenu Chhabra  Nodal Officer, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan
Priyanka Singh  Nodal Officer, Vigyan Jyoti Program
Puneet Sharma  Hindi Officer
Rakesh K. Sharma  Nodal Officer, IMRPINT Program
Ramesh K. Metre  Nodal Officer for SC and ST
Ritu Gupta  Nodal Officer, GIAN Program
Sandip Murarka  Nodal Officer, DAAD Scholarships Program
Sanjeeb Mukherjee  Estate Officer
Somnath Ghosh  Nodal Officer, Study in India Program
Subhash Pandey  Public Relations Officer
Subhash Pandey  Central Public Information Officer
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay  Nodal Officer, Ishaan Vikas Program
Sudipto Mukhopadhyay  Nodal Officer, Undergraduate Research Initiative (UGRI)
Associate Dean (Academics)  Chairman
Professor In-Charge, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of  Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Professor In-Charge, Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Head, Department of Physics
Associate Dean (Students)
Liaison Officer (SC/ST Cell)
General Secretary, Students Gymkhana
Secretary, Academics & Careers Society, Students Gymkhana
Departments and Associated Faculty Members
The Institute has organised its academic activities to be conducted through nine
1.  Bioscience & Bioengineering,
3.  Computer Science & Engineering,
4.  Electrical Engineering,
5.  Humanities & Social Sciences,
7.  Mechanical Engineering,
8.  Metallurgical & Materials Engineering, and
The Institute welcomed 12 new Faculty Members and 11 Staff Members into the
IIT  Jodhpur  community.  Details  of  Departments  and  associated  Faculty  Members  are
given in the pages to follow. Recruitment of Faculty Members for the new departments
DEPARTMENT OF BIOSCIENCE & BIOENGINEERING
The  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  aspires  to  cater  to  the
technological  requirements  of  the  Country  by  conducting  high-quality,  translatable
research  and  by  training  our  students  to  be  technological  innovators  in  Biological
Department  currently,  offers  M.Tech.  and  Ph.D.  Programs  in  Bioscience  &
Bioengineering.  Beginning  July  2018,  the  Department  will  offer  a  B.Tech.  Program  in
Biotechnology.  In  these  programs,  Students  are  exposed  to  state-of-the-art  research
infrastructure, where they undergo hands-on training.
The research effort of the Department is focused on developing solutions in the
areas of healthcare, the environment and agriculture. Faculty Members pursue complex
biological questions in the fields of:
1. Molecular & Cellular Biology,
2. Systems & Computational Biology,
3. Biomaterials & Biomechanics, and
4. Biological Processes & Bio-Devices.
The  Department  actively  collaborates  with  other  Departments  of  the  Institute
and  with  other  Institutions  of  higher  learning  in  and  around  Jodhpur  to  maximize
research  and  teaching  outcomes.  The  Department  has  received  research  funding  from
premier funding agencies in India, namely, Ministry of Human Resource Development,
Department of Science & Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Board of Research
in  Nuclear  Science,  Science  &  Engineering  Board,  and  Wellcome  Trust  DBT  India
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Molecular Pharmacology and Redox Biology
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Biological Science & Bio-Engineering: Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation
Amit Kumar Mishra
Cellular and Molecular Biology
Molecular Microbiology, Host-Microbe Interaction, Genomics and
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell and Molecular Physiology
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
DEPARTMENT OF  CHEMISTRY
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is where Chemistry sees Technology. At IIT Jodhpur,
Chemistry  embraces  a  distinctive  locus  in  science  and  technology  collaboration.  The
department is making technological contribution to new materials for energy solutions,
catalysis  and  water.  Fundamental  understanding  of  chemical  dynamics,  biological
phenomena,  Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance  and  Quantum  Chemistry  are  growing  in
prominence. The vision of the Department of Chemistry is to strive to be acknowledged
for  excellence  in  teaching,  research,  and  outreach.  The  following  Faculty  Members  are
associated with the department:
Nanomaterials & Nanodevices for Water, Energy and Healthcare
Head of Department
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry
Quantum Information Processing
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry, Chemical Reaction Dynamics
Asymmetric Catalysis and Natural Product Synthesis
Catalysis  for  Energy  and  Stereocontrol,  Feedstock  Chemistry,  Fuel  and
Lubricants, Energy Storage and Water Treament Technology
Nirmal Kumar Rana
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Main-group  organometallic  chemistry,Coordination  polymers,Inorganic-
organic hybrid materials and Metal phosphonate and phosphate chemistry
Ramesh K. Metre
Solution and solid state NMR and NQR spectroscopy
Organic  Synthesis,  Development  of  Novel  Synthetic  Methods,  Transition
Metal  Catalyzed  Synthetic  Transformations,  C-H  Functionalization
Reactions, Asymmetric Catalysis
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
The primary objective of the Department of Computer Science & Engineering is
to impart quality education in the field of Computer Science. The department’s vision is
1.  Expand  its  depth  and  breadth  in  the  research  and  study  of  core  Computer  Science
2.  Continually  improve  the  research  and  teaching  environment  to  ensure  creation  of
human resources with adequate technical and soft skills, and
3.  Establish  strong  industry  and  academia  partnership  to  augment  the  classroom
knowledge with practical hands on experience.
The Department is currently offering three academic programs, namely, B.Tech.
M.Tech.  and  Ph.D.  Progams  in  Computer  Science  &  Engineering.  The  Bachelor  of
Technology  (B.Tech.)  aims  to  develop  core  competence  in  Computer  Science  and
Engineering  among  the  students  and  thereby  prepare  them  to  carry  out  development
work, as well as take up challenges in research. The intake of this B.Tech. Program is 60
and M.Tech. Program is 15. The students who have graduated from the department are
either  placed  in  reputed  industries  in  India,  or  pursuing  higher  studies  in  reputed
universities within the country or abroad.
The  department  has  research  interests  in  core  areas  of  Computer  Science  and
Engineering.  The  Doctor  of  Philosophy  (Ph.D.)  program  is  offered  with  the  goal  of
producing  state-of-the art  research  outputs. Ph.D.  students  are  working  in  the areas  of
video  analytics,  image  understanding,  cloud  computing,  document  analysis,  and
internet  of  things.  To  strengthen  the  core  competence,  department  is  also  looking  for
Faculty Members in all areas of Computer Science and Engineering.
Also,  the  department  is  keen  to  collaborate  with  industry  and  academia.  At
present,  projects  are  going  on  with  All  India  Institute  of  Medical  Science  (AIIMS),
Jodhpur, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India.
Moreover, department works closely with industry leaders like Microsoft, IBM,
Intel,  TCS,  for  academics  and  research  collaboration.  In  near  future,  the  department  is
also  planning  to  move  towards  outcome  based  education  (OBE)  along  with  a  strong
industry-academia  partnership.  The  department  is  steadily  striving  towards  excellence
in both academics and research with active participation from faculty, staff and students.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Image and Video Analysis
Head of Department
Theoretical  Computer  Science,  Computational  Complexity,  Proof
Distributed System, Cloud Computing, Distributed Storage, Consistency
The  department  has  an  Adjunct  Faculty  Member,  Professor  Venkatesh  Raman
from Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai.
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  formerly  a  part  of  the  Centre  for
Information  and  Communication  Technology  (ICT)  at  IIT  Jodhpur  (2008),  primarily
focuses  on  imparting  quality  education  and  preparing  students  to  face  the  future
technological  challenges.  The  vision  of  the  Department  is  to  enhance  the  research
environment and to innovate in pedagogy to address the challenges of socio-economic
and  human  resource  development.  The  Department  is  committed  to  engage  in  high
quality  research  by  Faculty  Members  and  Students,  and  in  the  pursuit  of  excellence  in
With  excellent  laboratory  facilities  and  dedicated  Faculty  Members,  the
Department of Electrical Engineering offers the following programs:
1. B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering),
2. M.Tech. (Electrical Engineering), and
3. Ph.D. with specialisation in Electrical Engineering.
The  broad  areas  of  research  are  Microelectronics,  Power  and  Control  Systems,
Communication  and  Signal  Processing,  RF  and  Microwave;  and  thrust  Areas  of
Research include the following.
1. Signal processing for healthcare,
2. Devices and circuits for security and sensing,
3. Low-cost flexible electronics,
4. Smart grids and distribution of renewable energy,
5. Wireless and mobile communication,
6. RF and Microwave, and
7. Image Processing.
The  department  has  active  on-going  collaborations  with  organizations  like
Freescale  Semiconductors,  Global  Foundries,  AIIMS  Jodhpur,  DST,  DRDO,  ISRO,  to
name a few.  The Department has been receiving various sponsored projects from R&D
organizations since its inception.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Electrical Engineering: Image Processing, Video Processing, and Signal
Processing application in Bio-Medical
Protection of various components of Power System, Protection of
Distribution Network with DG penetration, Power Quality assessment
and mitigation in Distribution Networks with Renewable Energy Source
Anil Kumar Tiwari
Head of Department
Abdul Gafoor Shaik
Power Line Communications, Free Space Optical Communications, Visible
Group III-V Optoelectronic Devices, Fiber Optics and Integrated Optics
Sensors, Non-Linear Photonics, Silicon Photonics and Optical
Communication Theory, Wireless and Mobile Communications, Satellite
based Navigation Systems, Spread Spectrum Systems
Control and state estimation of uncertain systems, Power system,
Control issues in wind energy conversion system
Group III-V quantum structures by MBE, Growth of thin films and
nanostructures, Group III-nitride alloys for LEDs, HEMTs and photovoltaic
applications, Inorganic-Inorganic hybrid structures with special attention
to band gap engineering, Si and wide band gap semiconductors for
MEMS, Micro and Nano device fabrications
Signal  Processing,  Condition  Monitoring,
Compression, Blind Source Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Image  Processing,  Data
Microelectronics  &  VLSI  Technology,  Microfabrication,  Organic
Electronics, Device Physics and Characterization, New Device Structures
Arun Kumar Singh
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Shree Prakash Tiwari
image  processing  using  Stochastic
Image  processing,  Noise-aided
Resonance,  Image  enhancement,  Digital  watermarking,  Image  quality
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor R. K. Shyama Sunder,
who  is  a  Senior  Professor  and  J.  C.  Bose  National  Fellow  at  Tata  Institute  of
Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
The department has following three Adjunct Faculty Members.
1.  Kota  V.  Murali,  Chief  Technologist,  Semiconductor  Research  and  Development
Center, IBM India, Bangalore;
2.  Debashish Datta, Retired Professor, IIT Kharagpur; and
Akshay Kumar Rathore,  Associate Professor, Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Concordia University, Montreal, Canada.
DEPARTMENT OF  HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES
The  Department  of  Humanities  and  Social  Sciences  operates  from  spaces  that
gives  an  opportunity  to  act  as  an  interface  between  empirical  and  experiential
knowledge systems. Playing a significant role in the academic curriculum of the young
engineers,  we  offer  both  core  and  elective  courses  at  the  Bachelors,  Masters,  and
Doctoral levels. The ability to provide tools and skills for specific aims notwithstanding,
the  essence  of  Humanities  and  Social  Sciences  involves  the  sensitizing  of  individuals.
Acting as facilitators, thus, we engage in meaningful interactions with students and help
them  witness,  study,  and  understand  the  interplays  among  technology,  society,  and
humanity. This task assumes even more significance in an educational context where the
brightest young minds of India come together.
With  Faculty  Members  who  specialize
in  diverse  disciplines  (including
Philosophy,  Psychology,  and  Literature)  and  with  students  from  a  spectrum  of
backgrounds,  the  Department  provides  an  enriching  platform  -where  technical
education  can  be  complemented  with  human  and  social  understanding.  Following  are
the faculty members associated with the department.
English:  Literature  and  Environment  (Ecocriticism),  Film  and  Literature,
Literatures  of  the  Global  South,  Regional  Literatures
Head of Department
K. J. George
V. Hari Narayanan
Psychology: Gerontology, Clinical and Positive Psychology
Philosophy: Applied Ethics, Ethics of Technology, Bioethics
Philosophy: Cognitive Studies, Evolutionary Theory, Analytic Philosophy and
Sociology/Sociocultural  Anthropology:  Gender  Studies;  Postcolonial  South
Asia; International and Transnational Migrations, Qualitative Research
Chhanda Chakraborti, Professor, Humanities & Social Sciences, IIT Kharagpur is
associated with the Department as Adjunct Faculty Member.
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with
time and create new theories and models to solve challenging problems of today. Since
its inception, the department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods
and models that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering and basic
sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Mathematical
Physics,  Scientific  Computation,  Numerical  Analysis,  Differential  Equations,
Topological  Dynamics,  Low  Dimensional  Chaos,  Dynamical  Systems,  Renormalization
in  Low-dimensional  dynamics,  Wavelet  Analysis,  Fractional  Transform  Theory,  Image
Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, and Categorical Data Analysis.
The  department  offers  high-quality  programs  at  undergraduate  and
postgraduate levels. It runs a four year B.Tech. Program in System Science, a two-year
M.Sc. Program in Mathematics and Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas
of Mathematics. Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department.
Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Multimedia Security, Image
Processing, Information Fusion
Head of Department
Theoretical,  mathematical  and  computational  aspects  of  wave-matter
Kirankumar R. Hiremath
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
Dynamical Systems, Renormalization in Low-Dim Dynamics
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Regression
DEPARTMENT OF  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
The desire to contribute to national and global causes such as the solar mission
and  climate  change  is  at  the  heart  of  the  academic  activities  carried  out  within  the
Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering.  Several  application  domains  of  interest  in
Mechanical  Engineering  (such  as  solar  energy,  automotive  technologies  and  health)
motivate Students, Staff Members and Faculty Members.
The department offers B.Tech. Program, M.Tech. Program and Ph.D. Program in
Mechanical  Engineering.  Most  of  the  Alumni  are  pursuing  successful  careers  in  the
industry. Some of them have chosen to pursue higher studies in India, Europe and the
United States of America. Students of B.Tech. Program were benefited by the Industry-
Immersion Program which provides them with industry exposure during summers.
Several collaborative projects have been initiated by the Faculty Members of the
Department with a number of industries and research laboratories across India, such as
Thermax,  Sunborne,  Areva,  STEAG,  BHEL,  IOCL,  ONGC,  BARC,  and  NFTDC,  to
pursue research and development in the area of mechanical engineering.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Modeling  of  Manufacturing  Processes,  CAD/CAM,  CNC  Machining,  Error
Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Head of Department
Water, Water Management and Characterization of Engineered Materials
Anand Krishnan Plappally
Design, Dynamics, Vibration and Control
Dynamics  of  Machines  and  Structures,  Flexible  Robots,  MEMS,  Rotor
Dynamics, Nonlinear Oscillations
Solar thermal sub-systems (open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy
storage,  air-water  heat  exchanger),  Thermal  hydraulics,  Turbulence
Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Suril V. Shah
Heat  and  mass  transfer,  Latent  heat  based  storage  device  for  high
temperature applications, Alloy solidification process, Active and passive
solar cooling systems, Electronic cooling
Welding and joining, Manufacturing and materials processing, Mechanical
behaviour of materials
Robotics, Multibody Dynamics and Control
Energy  Technology,  Combustion  Technology,  Computational  Fluid
Dynamics, Turbulent flows, Sprays
DEPARTMENT OF  METALLURGICAL & MATERIALS  ENGINEERING
The Institute has started Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering in
January  2017.  The  department  is  currently  offering  three  degree  programs,  namely,
B.Tech., M.Tech., and Ph.D. in Metallurgical & Materials Engineering. The focus areas of
the department are:
(1) Electronic, Optical and Magnetic Materials and Devices,
(2) Extraction of Metals and Mineral Processing,
(3) Integrated Computational Materials Engineering,
(4) Materials Processing and Process Development,
(5) Physical and Mechanical Metallurgy of Materials, and
(6) Thermodynamics and Kinetic Processes in Materials.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department.
Thermo-mechanical  treatment  and  Super-plasticity,  Grain  boundary
phenomena,  Creep  and  low  temperature  deformation,  Microstructure  -
flow property correlations, and Light metals and alloy development
Bhagwati P. Kashyap
First Principles Calculations, Phase Filed Modelling
Appala Naidu Gandi
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its applications is the major
theme of Physics Department at IIT Jodhpur. The Faculty members carry out research in
the  field  of  Astrophysics,  Condensed  Matter  Physics  &  Material  Science,  Particle
Physics,  Experimental  and  Theoretical  Quantum  Optics,  Quantum  Information  and
Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. The research facilities available in the department
include SQUID magnetometer, Physics Property Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman
Spectrometer and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM).
Following are the faculty members associated with the department.
Open Quantum Systems; Quantum Information; Non-Equilibrium Statistical
Mechanics; Quantum Optics
Head of Department
Semiconductors, multifunctional ferroics & materials for energy-fabrication
& characterization, Photovoltaic materials & devices ab initio DFT study and
Particle Physics and Cosmology
Ashutosh Kumar Alok
Astrophysics, Astroparticle physics
Information Processing in Biological Systems
Optics and Solar Field Design, Plasmonics, Laser Produced Plasmas (LPP),
Pulsed Laser Deposition (PLD), Plasma Diagnostics (Interferometry & Optical
Emission Spectroscopy (OES)), Laser Matter Interaction and Laser Cluster
Light in disordered and complex systems, Mid-IR photonics and
The  department  also  has  a  Scholar-in-Residence,  Professor  K.  L.  Chopra,
Advisor, Thin Film Laboratory, IIT Delhi.
Eleven  new  Staff  Members  joined  the  Institute  during  the  FY  2017-18.  The
following  are  the  Staff  Members  engaged  in  various  Offices  and  Departments  of  the
Academic Staff Members
Office of Library
Amit Kumar Soni
Kamleshkumar J. Patel
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Administrative Staff Members
Office of Academics
Ashok Kumar Khanduri
Sandeep Singh Chandel
Office of Accounts
Manish Kumar Bhomia
Office of Administration
Office of Alumni Relations & Student Placement
Gurpreet Kaur Virdi
Office of Establishment
Abhay Kumar Awasthi
Office of Infrastructure Engineering
T. Madhavi Lata
Executive Engineer (Civil)
Assistant Engineer (Electrical)
Assistant Engineer (Civil)
Junior Engineer (Civil)
Office of Internal Audit
Office of Recruitment
Darsh Kumar Khatwani
Office of Research & Development
Office of Students
Ram Niwas Dhayal
Physical Training Instructor
Office of Stores & Purchase
Shakti Ranjan Patra
Suresh Chandra Phulara
Administrative Staff Members engaged in Offices of Departments
Dhani Ram Choudhary
Technical Staff Members
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Junior Technical Superintendent
Department of Chemistry
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal
Poonam Chand Sankhla
Ram Singh Ratnu
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Department of Electrical Engineering
Junior Technical Superintendent
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Chandra Veer Charan
Dhavalbhai M. Raiyani
Assistant Workshop Superintendent
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Sampatlal N. Suthar
Department of Physics
Narendra Kumar Singh
Currently, the Institute offers the following four sets of Programs:
1.  Bachelor of Technology Programs:
1.  B.Tech. (Biotechnology)
2.  B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering)
3.  B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
4.  B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
5.  B.Tech. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)
2.  Master of Science Programs
1.  M.Sc. (Chemistry)
2.  M.Sc. (Mathematics)
3.  M.Sc. (Physics)
3.  Master of Technology Programs
1.  M.Tech. (Bioscience & Bioengineering)
2.  M.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering)
3.  M.Tech. (Electrical Engieering)
4.  M.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
5.  M.Tech. (Metallurgical & Materials Engineering)
4.  Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Biology
2.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Chemistry
3.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Computer Science & Engineering
4.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Electrical Engineering
5.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Humanities & Social Sciences
6.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Mathematics
7.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Mechanical Engineering
8.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
9.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Physics
The following Ph.D. Students defended their theses successfully this year:
Name of the
Title of Thesis
Date of Defense
Small Molecule Based
Solution Processed Organic
Field-Effect Transistors and
Shri Prakash Tiwari  Electrical
9 August 2017
RF Sputtered ZnO Nanorods
based Hydrozen Sensor
14 August 2017
Poonam Sharma  Supported Chiral Platinum
Rakesh K. Sharma
15 September 2017
Bibin G. Anand
Close Shell Metal Oxides for
Solar Cell and Water
Effects of High Energy
Radiation on Perovskite
Oxides for Voltage Tunable
Biophysical Approach to
Develop Inhibitors against
inhibitors to target protein
Rare earth doped LiMn 2 O
4 cathodes for lithium ion
Processing of Heart Sound
Signal to Monitor
Cardiovascular Functions in
Properties of Complex
diffusion protocols for
Rakesh K. Sharma
19 September 2017
6 October 2017
6 November 2017
11 January 2018
Rakesh K. Sharma
20 February 2018
Anil Kumar Tiwari
23 February 2018
Deepak M. Fulwani  Electrical
12 March 2018
23 March 2018
Collaborations with Academia
The  Institute  has  signed  Memoranda  of  Understanding  (MoUs)  with  six
international  universities,  two  international  agencies,  three  national  institutes  and
universities, and one national agency for furthering cooperation on specific fronts. These
International Institutes and Universities
1.  University of Western Ontario, Canada (9 August 2010)
To  explore  the  possibilities  for  cooperation  in  education,  training,  and
research and also to encourage direct contact and mutual cooperation between
faculty members, departments, and research centers.
2.  Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29 August 2010)
For  the  development  of  mutually  beneficial  academic  program  and
courses;  coordination  of  academic  staff  travel  for  the  purposes  of  teaching,
research,  and  training;  cooperation  of  student  mobility  program  for  study,
research,  and  for  joint  academic  activities  such  as  research  publications,
conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation and research materials
in the field of mutual interest provided that there are no legal barriers against
exchange  and  collaboration  in  international  master’s  and  doctoral  programs
between both the institutions.
3.  University of Waterloo, Canada (25 November 2010)
For  collaborative  measures  to  foster  international  experience  and
advancement  of  knowledge  on  the  basis  of  reciprocity,  mutual  benefit,
interaction and exchange of students in graduate programs.
4.  University of Manitoba, Canada (9 December 2010)
For  the  development  of  mutually  beneficial  programs  for  student
internships and graduate study in order to provide students opportunities for
advancement of knowledge and international experience.
5.  University of California, Merced (26 April 2011)
For  the  development  of mutually  beneficial  relationships for  promoting
academic exchange,  scholarly  cooperation,  and collaborations  under  mutually
agreeable  terms  and  conditions:  the  exchange  of  faculty  members,  scientists
and students and scientific material, access to library resources, pursuit of joint
meetings,  symposia  and/or  conferences  and  access  to  laboratories  as  may  be
appropriate and feasible in the two institutes.
6.  Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15 August 2011)
For  the  development  of  sheltering  belt  plantation  as  urban  forestry
model for at a selected site at IIT Jodhpur.
Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28 February 2012)
To  promote  academic  exchanges  in  fields  where  each  party  needs  to
enhance its educational and academic programs: the academic exchanges will
include, implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures and
education  and  exchange  of  scholars,  researchers,  and  administrative  staff;
exchange  of  information  in  fields  which  are  of  interest  to  both  parties  and
exchange of graduate students in fields of interest to both parties.
1.  The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives, France
(22 November 2010)
To cooperate in areas of solar energy research, such as Concentrated Solar
Power (CSP) and Concentrated Photovoltaic (CPV), water production by using
solar energy, renewable energy storage and smart management, integration of
solar energies and energy efficiency in buildings.
2.  Embassy of France in India (28 March 2011)
To explore prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French
(c)  National Institutes and Universities
1.  All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
2.  National Law University, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
3.  Sardar Patel University of Police, Security, and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur
(12 June 2013)
To  promote  academic  exchanges  in  fields  where  each  party  needs  to
enhance its educational and academic programs.
Collaborations with Industry
A  special  feature  of  the  Institute’s  B.Tech.  Program  is  the  Industry  Immersion
Program,  in  which,  till  now,  ~150  B.Tech.  Students  were  engaged  with  our  Industry
Partners, namely TVS Motor Company, Mahindra & Mahindra, Tata Motors, Tata Power
Company,  and  Larsen  &  Toubro.    In  the  inward  direction,  the  Industry  Captains  and
leading  lights  in the  subjects  gave  Vaguard  Lectures;  this  enabled  Students  to  listen  to
inspirational talks by experts from Industry, and to get a big-picture of the technological
advances  and  emerging  trends  in  different  fields.  The  first  batch  of  students  of  the
Industry Immerson Program will be graduating shortly with 28 students completing the
In the year 2017-18, two more series of Vanguard Lectures, namely, Series 6 and
Series 7, were organised since July 2017, whose details are as below.
S.No.  Speaker & Topic
Series 7: July 2017
S. Jabez Dhinagar
Vice - President, Advanced Engineering Group
TVS Motor Company Limited
“New Product and Technology Development”
29 August 2017
R. G. Rajhans
Head Light Defence Vehicles
Tata Motors Limited
“Inspiration to Aspiration”
4 September 2017
Head SCV Product
Tata Motors Limited
“Welcome to VUCA world”
4 September 2017
Naveen Garg, Professor
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi
11 September 2017
Kota V. Murali
Group Executive Vice President, Technology and Innovation
The Manipal Group
“Nanotechnology : Enabling the Future of Electronics and Computing”
9 October 2017
SO/H and Head, Solid State RF Amplifier Section, RF Systems Division
Raja Ramanna Centre for Advanced Technology
“High Power Solid-State RF Transmitter”
13 October 2017
Emeritus Fellow, Department of Aerospace Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur
“Autonomous Mini Helicopter Development at IIT Kanpur:  My Journey & Learning”
27 October 2017
Lalit Mohan Kukreja
AvH Fellow, Founder-President
“Emerging Technologies of Laser Materials Processing”
1 November 2017
Director, Simulation Based Design Global Technology and Engineering Center
“Simulation Based Design and its Application in various Industry Sectors”
12 March 2018
Series 8: January 2018
R & D Projects
The  Faculty  Members  in  the  Institute  are  currently  working  on  41  sponsored
research projects. Their details are:
S.No.  Project Title
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
(1)    How LRASM1 gene regulates cellular protein quality control functions? Implications in
neurodegeneration and ageing
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 23.10 Lakhs
Bioremediation of low level wastes including denitrification using microbial fuel cells
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government
PI: Meenu Chhabra;  Co-PI: Atul Kumar
Rs. 23.73 Lakhs
(3)    Development of low cost Microbial Carbon capture (MCC) cells for algae cultivation and
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra
Rs. 172 Lakhs
(4)    Hospital-associated ESKAPE pathogens: Unraveling novel regulatory layers controlling
virulence and persistance
The Wellcome Trust / DBT India Alliance
PI: Shankar Manoharan
Rs. 1.64 Cr.
(5)    Deposition of particulate matter in lungs
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government
PI: Sushmita Jha
Rs. 24.79 Lakhs
Expression analysis of inflammasome-forming NLRs in gliomas for identification of novel
Department of Science & Technology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha
Rs. 42.15 Lakhs
Integrative Approach for Identification of Disease Genes of Type II Diabetes
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Sushmita Paul
Rs. 26.76 Lakhs
Department of Chemistry
Solid State High Energy Density Lithium Ion Rechrgeable & Tecnlogy
Indo-Portugal Research Center, Minho, Portugal
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 6.45 Lakhs
Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to Transport Fuel
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 94.79 Lakhs
(10)   New Single Source Precursors for Potential Nanostructured Bi2Te3/sb2Te3 System Based
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Ramesh K. Metre
Rs. 32.12 Lakhs
(11)    Development of electrochemical energy storage from carbon rich waste
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Ritu Gupta
Rs. 37.17 Lakhs
Solid state Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) assessment of zinc oxide (ZnO)
nanomaterial based drug delivery systems
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Samanwita Pal
Rs. 34.45 Lakhs
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
(13)   Design of efficient algorirthms for multiple choice resource allocation problem
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Aritra Banik
Rs. 9.78 Lakhs
(14)   Development of Multimodal Search Framework For Architeetural Floor Plan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Rs. 24.5 Lakhs
Information Access from Document Images of Indian Languages
Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) & Ministry of Electronics & Information
PI: Gaurav Harit
Rs. 8 Lakhs
Department of Electrical Engineering
Computationally efficient fixed complexity sphere decodes for multiuser MIMO
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Arun Kumar Singh
Rs. 22.82 Lakhs
(17)   Design and development of NavIC Receiver
Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India
PI: Arun Kumar Singh
Rs. 64.55 Lakhs
Energy Efficient Technologis for Smart Building
Indo-US Science and Technilogy Forum (IUSSTF), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Govermnent of India
PI: Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Rs. 1.30 Cr.
Ion-Beam Synthesis and Characterization of Gallium Nitride based Nanocrystals embedded
in Si based Matrices for New-Generation Photodetector and Light-Emitter Applications.
Department of Science & Technology (DST) International Division, Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 55.72 Lakhs
(20)   Development of mems based gas sensors using RF sputtered transition metal doped ZnO
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 24.17 Lakhs
(21)   Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering
Indian National Science Academy
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 5 Lakhs
(22)   Design and Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 20 Lakhs
(23)   Noise-enhanced Edge-preserving Image Denoising using Stochastic Resonance
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Rs. 26.64 Lakhs
Algorithms for Blind Signal Detection and Demodulation
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Rs. 55.24 Lakhs
(25)   Design and Fabrication of Germanium on Silicon near infrared photodetectors
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Saravanan Rajamani
Rs. 19.20 Lakhs
Special Manpower development Program for Chips to System Design (SMDP-C2SD)/ Design
of a Sensor Signal Conditioning System (I) & Multiprocessor Scheduling Alogrithms using
Control Theoretic Approach (II)
Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 10.43 Lakhs
Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) based Circuits and Systems for millimeter wave
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Soumava Mukherjee
Rs. 35 Lakhs
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
(28)   Wisdom as cognitive and motivational-emotional heuristics in ecologically rational decision
Department of Science & Technology, Government of India
PI: Ankita Sharma
Rs. 22.3 Lakhs
(29)   Where the Bougainvillea Blooms: Stories of Place from a Resilient Landscape
M. R. A. R. Educational Foundation
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran
Rs. 0.5 Lakhs
Department of Mathematics
Automorphism Groups of Induced Symbolic Systems
National Board for Higher Mathematics (NBHM), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE),
Government of India
PI: Puneet Sharma
Rs. 3.32 Lakhs
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Local Composite geotextile mats for soil and water conservation in western Rajasthan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally
Rs. 21.5 Lakhs
(32)   Minimizing deflection induced surface errors in end milling of thin walled components
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Rs. 15.3 Lakhs
Thermal Design of PCM Cool and Warm Vest
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty
Rs. 9.96 Lakhs
(34)   Hybrid reactionless manipulation and visual serving of a satellite mounted robot for
autonomous on orbit services
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah
Rs. 35 Lakhs
Department of Physics
(35)   Development of III-Nitrides thin film(s) for high frequency saw device applications
Department of Space, Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 22.62 Lakhs
Probing Magnetic Structures and Spin Flop transition in bulk and nanostructured FeVo4
UGC-DAE, Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 6.60 Lakhs
(37)   Devolopment of nanostructured Cu2ZnSn(S/Se)4 thin films and their electronic properties
for next genration solar photovoltaic applications
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 37.22 Lakhs
(38)   Magnetars with superfluid core
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST),
Government of India
PI: Monika Sinha
Rs. 20.60 Lakhs
Application specialty optical fibers and towards 1D random lasers in disordered lattices
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Somnath Ghosh
Rs. 35 Lakhs
A Study of quantum correlations : Squeezing and its various facets
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 5.10 Lakhs
Probing the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in Neutrino Oscillations
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 10.08 Lakhs
In  2017-18,  our  Faculty  Members  have  filed  2  patents,  published  108
research  papers  and  articles  in  scholarly  journals.  29  of  their  works  have  been
covered as conference presentations and in conference proceedings; 27 preprints,
2 edited books and 17 book chapters have been contributed.
Patents & Publications
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Humanities & Social Sciences
Metallurgical & Materials Engg.
Preprints  Books  Book
The following is the department-wise list of patents and publications.
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Portable, low cost hypoxia chamber to simulate hypoxia environment. Jha, S. and Saxena,
S., 2018. Filed on 28 March 2018.
Ali,  M.,  Pandey,  R.  K.,  Khatoon,  N.,  Narula,  A.,  Mishra,  A.,  &  Prajapati,  V.  K.  (2017).
Exploring dengue genome to construct a multi-epitope based subunit vaccine by utilizing
immunoinformatics  approach  to  battle  against  dengue  infection.  Scientific  Reports,  7(1),
9232. ISSN: 2045-2322. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-09199-w
Amanullah, A., Mishra, R., Upadhyay, A., Reddy, P. P., Das, R., & Mishra, A. K. (2018).
Indomethacin Elicits Proteasomal Dysfunctions Develops Apoptosis Through
Mitochondrial Abnormalities. Journal of Cellular Physiology, 233 (2), 1685–1699. ISSN: 1097-
Amanullah, A., Upadhyay, A., Joshi, V., Mishra, R., Jana, N. R., & Mishra, A. K. (2017).
Progressing neurobiological strategies against proteostasis failure: challenges in
neurodegeneration. Progress in Neurobiology. 159, 1-38. ISSN: 0301-0082.
Arora, N., Tripathi, S., Kumar, P., Mondal, P., Mishra, A., & Prasad, A. (2017). Recent
advancements and new perspectives in animal models for Neurocysticercosis
immunopathogenesis. Parasite Immunology, 39(7), e12439. ISSN: 1365-3024.
Arora, N., Tripathi, S., Singh, A. K., Mondal, P., Mishra, A., & Prasad, A. (2017).
Micromanagement of Immune System: Role of miRNAs in Helminthic Infections. Frontiers
in Microbiology, 8. ISSN: 1664-302X. https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2017.00586
Freeman, L., Guo, H., David, C. N., Brickey, W. J., Jha, S., & Ting, J. P.-Y. (2017). NLR
members NLRC4 and NLRP3 mediate sterile inflammasome activation in microglia and
astrocytes. Journal of Experimental Medicine, 214(5), 1351-1370. ISSN: 1540-9538.
Joshi, V., Upadhyay, A., Kumar, A., & Mishra, A. K. (2017). Gp78 E3 ubiquitin ligase:
essential functions and contributions in proteostasis. Frontiers in Cellular Neuroscience, 11.
ISSN: 1662-5102. https://doi.org/10.3389/fncel.2017.00259
Khan, E., Tawani, A., Mishra, S. K., Verma, A. K., Upadhyay, A., Kumar, M., Sandhir, R.,
Mishra, A. & Kumar, A. (2018). Myricetin reduces toxic level of CAG repeats RNA in
Huntington’s Disease (HD) and Spino Cerebellar Ataxia (SCAs). ACS Chemical Biology,
13(1), 180-188. ISSN: 1554-8929. https://doi.org/10.1021/acschembio.7b00699
(9)  Maji, P., Shah, E., & Paul, S. (2017). RelSim: An integrated method to identify disease
genes using gene expression profiles and PPIN based similarity measure. Information
Sciences, 384, 110–125. ISSN: 0020-0255. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2016.06.034
Saxena, S., & Jha, S. (2017). Role of NOD- like Receptors in Glioma Angiogenesis: Insights
into future therapeutic interventions. Cytokine & Growth Factor Reviews, 34, 15-26. ISSN:
Sharma, N., & Jha, S. (2017). NLRC3 mediated PI3K-mTOR inhibition takes a toll on colon
cancer. Translational Cancer Research, 6(2), S296–S300. ISSN: 2219-6803.
Singh, R., Shitiz, K., Singh, S., Jha, S., & Singh, A. (2018). Evaluation of wound dressing
properties of chitin membranes containing nanosilver. Biomedical Physics & Engineering
Express, 4(2), 025030. ISSN: 2057-1976. https://doi.org/10.1088/2057-1976/aaa9ca
(13)  Upadhyay, A., Amanullah, A., Mishra, R., Kumar, A., & Mishra, A. K. (2018). Lanosterol
Suppresses the Aggregation and Cytotoxicity of Misfolded Proteins Linked with
Neurodegenerative Diseases. Molecular Neurobiology, 55(2), 1169–1182. ISSN: 1559-1182.
(14)  Upadhyay, A., Joshi, V., Amanullah, A., Mishra, R., Arora, N., Prasad, A., & Mishra, A.
(2017). E3 Ubiquitin Ligases Neurobiological Mechanisms: Development to Degeneration.
Frontiers in Molecular Neuroscience, 10. ISSN: 1662-5099.
Paul, S., & Talbar, S. (2017). Machine Learning Approach for Identification of miRNA-
mRNA Regulatory Modules in Ovarian Cancer. In Pattern Recognition and Machine
Intelligence (pp. 438–447). Kolkata, India: Springer, Cham. ISBN: 978-3-319-69900-4.
Gallaud, E., Nair, A. R., Monnard, A., Singh, P., Pham, T., Garcia, D. S., Ferrand, A. &
Cabernard, C. (2018). A centrosome asymmetry switch in fly neural stem cells. BioRxiv,
Paul, S. (2017). Integration of Gene Expression and Ontology for Clustering Functionally
Similar Genes. In Polkowski L. et al. (Eds.), Rough Sets (pp. 587–598). Springer, Cham.
ISBN: 978-3-319-60837-2. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-60837-2_47
Department of Chemistry
(1)  Metal(s)/Clay  Catalysts  for  Converting  Biomass  into  Diesel  Grade  Hydrocarbons.
Sharma, R. K. and Soni, V. K. 2017. Filed on 22 May 2017.
Ahmed, S., Pramanik, B., Sankar, K. N. A., Srivastava, A., Singha, N., Dowari, P.,
Srivastava, A., Mohanta, K., Debnath, A. & Das, D. (2017). Solvent assisted tuning of
morphology of a peptide-perylenediimide conjugate: helical fibers to nano-rings and their
differential semiconductivity. Scientific Reports, 7(1), 9485. ISSN: 2045-2322.
Bahuguna, G., Janu, V. C., Uniyal, V., Kambhala, N., Angappane, S., Sharma, R. K., &
Gupta, R. (2017). Electrophilic fluorination of α-Fe2O3 nanostructures and influence on
magnetic properties. Materials & Design, 135(Supplement C), 84–91. ISSN: 0264-1275.
Godara, S., Verma, P., & Paranjothy, M. (2017). Dissociation chemistry of 3-oxetanone in
the gas phase. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A. 121 (36), 6679–6686. ISSN: 1089-5639.
Gupta, R., & Fisher, T. S. (2017). Scalable Coating of Single Source Ni Hexadecanethiolate
Precursor on 3D-Graphitic Petals for Asymmetric Supercapacitor. Energy Technology,
5(5), 740-746. ISSN: 2194-4296. https://doi.org/10.1002/ente.201600475
Janu, V. C., Bahuguna, G., Laishram, D., Shejale, K. P., Kumar, N., Sharma, R. K., &
Gupta, R. (2018). Surface fluorination of α-Fe2O3 using select fluor for enhancement in
photoelectrochemical properties. Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells, 174, 240–247. ISSN:
Jia, Z.-J., Merten, C., Knauer, L., Murarka, S., Strohmann, C., & Waldmann, H. (2017).
Biology-oriented synthesis of decahydro-4,8-epoxyazulene scaffolds. Synlett, 28(20), 2918-
2922. ISSN: 1437-2096. https://doi.org/10.1055/s-0036-1588558
Kaur, H., & Kumar, A. (2018). Game-theoretic perspective of Ping–Pong protocol. Physica
A: Statistical Mechanics and Its Applications, 490, 1415-1422. ISSN: 0378-4371.
Krishnan, Y., Sharma, N., Lourderaj, U., & Paranjothy, M. (2017). Classical Dynamics
Simulations of Dissociation of Protonated Tryptophan in the Gas Phase. The Journal of
Physical Chemistry A. 121(23), 4389-4396. ISSN: 1089-5639.
Krishnan, Y., Vincent, A., & Paranjothy, M. (2017). Classical dynamics simulations of
interstellar glycine formation via CH2=NH+CO+H2OCH2=NH+CO+H2O reaction.
Journal of Chemical Sciences, 129(10), 1571–1577. ISSN: 0973-7103.
(10)  Kumar, D., Krishnan, Y., Paranjothy, M., & Pal, S. (2017). Analysis of Molecular
Interaction of Drugs within β-Cyclodextrin Cavity by Solution-State NMR Relaxation. The
Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 121(13), 2864–2872. ISSN: 1520-6106.
(11)  Majumdar, D., Biswas, J. K., Mondal, M., Babu, M. S. S., Das, S., Metre, R. K., SreeKumar
S. S., Bankura, K., & Mishra, D. (2018). Cd(II) Pseudohalide Complexes with N,
N′‐Bis(3‐ethoxysalicylidenimino) 1,3‐Diaminopropane: Crystal Structures, Hirshfeld
Surface, Antibacterial and Anti‐Biofilm Properties. ChemistrySelect, 3(11), 2912–2925. ISSN:
(12)  Majumdar, D., Biswas, J. K., Mondal, M., Surendra Babu, M. S., Metre, R. K., Das, S.,
Bankura, K. & Mishra, D. (2018). Coordination of N,O-donor appended Schiff base ligand
(H2L1) towards Zinc(II) in presence of pseudohalides: Syntheses, crystal structures,
photoluminescence, antimicrobial activities and Hirshfeld surfaces. Journal of Molecular
Structure, 1155(Supplement C), 745–757. ISSN: 0022-2860.
(13)  Padmapriya, S., Harinipriya, S., Sudha, V., Kumar, D., Pal, S., & Chaubey, B. (2017).
Polyaniline coated copper for hydrogen storage and evolution in alkaline medium.
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy. 42(32), 20453-20462. ISSN: 0360-3199.
(14)  Ram, P., Singhal, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2017). Preliminary study of dysprosium doped
LiMn2O4 spinel cathode materials. Materials Today: Proceedings, 4(9), 9365–9370. ISSN:
(15)  Ram, P., Singhal, R., Choudhary, G., & Sharma, R. K. (2017). On the key role of Dy3+ in
spinel LiMn2O4 cathodes for Li-ion rechargeable batteries. Journal of Electroanalytical
Chemistry, 802(Supplement C), 94–99. ISSN: 1572-6657.
Sharma, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2018). Platinum/Graphene as Recyclable Catalyst for
Asymmetric Hydrogenation of α-ketoesters. Catalysis in Green Chemistry and Engineering,
1(1), 43-50. ISSN: 2572-9896. https://doi.org/ 10.1615/.2017020858
Singh, P., & Kumar, A. (2018). Correlations, Nonlocality and Usefulness of an Efficient
Class of Two-Qubit Mixed Entangled States. Zeitschrift Für Naturforschung A, 73(3), 191–
206. ISSN: 0932-0784. https://doi.org/10.1515/zna-2017-0322
Soni, V. K., Sharma, P. R., Choudhary, G., Pandey, S., & Sharma, R. K. (2017). Ni/Co-
Natural Clay as Green Catalysts for Microalgae Oil to Diesel-Grade Hydrocarbons
Conversion. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering. ISSN: 2168-0485.
Srivastava, A., & Debnath, A. (2018). Hydration dynamics of a lipid membrane: Hydrogen
bond networks and lipid-lipid associations. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 148(9), 094901.
ISSN: 0021-9606. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5011803
(20)  Vandana, Chaubey, B., Dhaharwal, A. K., & Pal, S. (2017). Solvent-dependent binding
interactions of the organophosphate pesticide, chlorpyrifos (CPF), and its metabolite, 3,5,6-
trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCPy), with Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA): A comparative
fluorescence quenching analysis. Pesticide Biochemistry and Physiology, 139, 92-100. ISSN:
(21)  Padmapriya, S., Harinipriya, S., Jaidev, K., Sudha, V., Kumar, D. & Pal, S. (2018). Storage
and evolution of hydrogen in acidic medium by polyaniline. International Journal of Energy
Research. 42(3), 1196-1209. ISSN: 0363-907X. https://doi.org/10.1002/er.3920
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Kalshetti, P., Bundele, M., Rahangdale, P., Jangra, D., Chattopadhyay, C., Harit, G., &
Elhence, A. (2017). An interactive medical image segmentation framework using iterative
refinement. Computers in Biology and Medicine, 83, 22–33. ISSN: 0010-4825.
Nagendar, G., Ranjan, V., Harit, G., & Jawahar, C. V. (2018). Efficient Query Specific DTW
Distance for Document Retrieval with Unlimited Vocabulary. Journal of Imaging, 4(2), 37 (1-
16). ISSN: 2313-433X. https://doi.org/10.3390/jimaging4020037
Pandey, P. K., & Badarla, V. (2018). Reconstruction of network topology using status-time-
series data. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and Its Applications. 490, 573-583. ISSN: 0378-
Banik, A., & Choudhary, P. (2018). Fixed-Parameter Tractable Algorithms for Tracking Set
Problems. In Algorithms and Discrete Applied Mathematics (pp. 93–104). Springer, Cham.
ISBN: 978-3-319-74180-2. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-74180-2_8
Banik, A., Katz, M. J., Packer, E., & Simakov, M. (2017). Tracking Paths. In Algorithms and
Complexity (pp. 67–79). Springer, Cham. ISBN: 78-3-319-57586-5.
Dhiman, S., Garg, P., Sharma, D., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2017). Automatic synthesis of
boolean expression and error detection from logic circuit sketches. In Rameshan R., Arora
C., Dutta Roy S. (Eds.), Communications in Computer and Information Science: Vol. 841.
NCVPRIPG 2017: Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition, Image Processing, and Graphics
(pp. 410–423). ISBN: 978-981-13-0020-2. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-0020-2_36
Goyal, S., Chattopadhyay, C., & Bhatnagar, G. (2018). Plan2Text: A framework for
describing building floor plan images from first person perspective. In 2018 IEEE 14th
International Colloquium on Signal Processing Its Applications (CSPA) (pp. 35–40). Batu
Feringghi, Malaysia: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-0389-5.
Jain, H., & Harit, G. (2017). Detecting Missed and Anomalous Action Segments Using
Approximate String Matching Algorithm. In Rameshan R., Arora C., Dutta Roy S. (Eds.),
Communications in Computer and Information Science: Vol. 841. NCVPRIPG 2017:
Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition, Image Processing, and Graphics (pp. 101–111).
ISBN: 978-981-13-0020-2. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-0020-2_10
Pandey, S., & Harit, G. (2017). Core Region Detection for Off-Line Unconstrained
Handwritten Latin Words Using Word Envelops. In 2017 14th IAPR International
Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition (ICDAR) (pp. 627–632). Kyoto, Japan:
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-3586-5. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDAR.2017.108
Vyas, A., Gaikwad, S., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2017). A Graphical Model for Football Story
Snippet Synthesis from Large Scale Commentary. In Pattern Recognition and Machine
Intelligence (pp. 480–485). Kolkata, India: Springer, Cham. ISBN: 978-3-319-69900-4.
Yedidsion, H., Banik, A., Carmi, P., Katz, M. J., & Segal, M. (2017). Efficient data retrieval
in faulty sensor networks using a mobile mule. In 2017 15th International Symposium on
Modeling and Optimization in Mobile, Ad Hoc, and Wireless Networks (WiOpt) (pp. 1–8).
Parish, France. ISBN: 978-3-9018-8290-6. https://doi.org/10.23919/WIOPT.2017.7959880
Patil, S. M., Nigam, A., Bhavsar, A., & Chattopadhyay, C. (2017). Siamese LSTM based
Fiber Structural Similarity Network (FS2Net) for Rotation Invariant Brain Tractography
Segmentation. ArXiv:1712.09792 [Cs]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1712.09792
Banik, A., Panolan, F., Raman, V., Sahlot, V., & Saurabh, S. (2017). Parameterized
Complexity of Geometric Covering Problems Having Conflicts. In Ellen F., Kolokolova A.,
Sack JR. (Eds.), Algorithms and Data Structures (pp. 61–72). Springer, Cham. ISBN: 978-3-
Department of Electrical Engineering
Agrawal, A. V., Kumar, R., Venkatesan, S., Zakhidov, A., Zhu, Z., Bao, J., Kumar, M. &
Kumar, M. (2017). Fast detection and low power hydrogen sensor using edge-oriented
vertically aligned 3-D network of MoS2 flakes at room temperature. Applied Physics Letters,
111(9), 093102. ISSN: 0003-6951. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5000825
Barala, S. S., Bhati, V. S., & Kumar, M. (2017). High energy photon induced Fermi-level
shift of Ba0.5Sr0.5TiO3 thin films. Thin Solid Films, 639, 107–112. ISSN: 0040-6090.
Bharti, D., Raghuwanshi, V., Varun, I., Mahato, A. K., & Tiwari, S. P. (2017). Effect of UV
irradiation on solution processed low voltage flexible organic field-effect transistors.
Superlattices and Microstructures, 109, 538-544. ISSN: 0749-6036.
Bharti, D., Raghuwanshi, V., Varun, I., Mahato, A. K., & Tiwari, S. P. (2017). Directional
solvent vapor annealing for crystal alignment in solution processed organic
semiconductors. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 9 (31), 26226–26233. ISSN: 1944-8244.
Bharti, D., Raghuwanshi, V., Varun, I., Mahato, A., & Tiwari, S. P. (2017). Photo-response
of Low Voltage Flexible TIPS-pentacene Organic Field-Effect Transistors. IEEE Sensors
Journal, 17(12), 3689 - 3697. ISSN: 1558-1748. https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2017.2700260
Bhati, V. S., Ranwa, S., Fanetti, M., Valant, M., & Kumar, M. (2018). Efficient hydrogen
sensor based on Ni-doped ZnO nanostructures by RF sputtering. Sensors and Actuators B:
Chemical. 255(1), 588-597. ISSN: 0925-4005. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2017.08.106
Chopra, P., & Yadav, S. K. (2018). Restricted boltzmann machine and softmax regression
for fault detection and classification. Complex & Intelligent Systems, 4(1), 67-77. ISSN: 2198-
Chouhan, R., Jha, R. K., & Biswas, P. K. (2017). Hybrid Domain Analysis of Noise-Aided
Contrast Enhancement Using Stochastic Resonance. Journal of Signal Processing Systems,
89(2), 243–262. ISSN: 1939-8115. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11265-016-1190-x
Hojamberdiev, M., Kawashima, K., Kumar, M., Yamakata, A., Yubuta, K., Gurlo, A.,
Hasegawa, M., Domen, K. & Teshima, K. (2017). Engaging the flux-grown
La1−xSrxFe1−yTiyO3 crystals in visible-light-driven photocatalytic hydrogen generation.
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, 42(44), 27024-27033. ISSN: 0360-3199.
Jain, P. K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2017). An adaptive thresholding method for the wavelet based
denoising of phonocardiogram signal. Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, 38, 388–399.
ISSN: 1746-8094. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2017.07.002
Jajoo, G., Kumar, Y., Yadav, S. K., Adhikari, B., & Kumar, A. (2017). Blind signal
modulation recognition through clustering analysis of constellation signature. Expert
Systems with Applications, 90, 13–22. ISSN: 0957-4174.
(12)  Korolev, D. S., Nikolskaya, A. A., Krivulin, N. O., Belov, A. I., Mikhaylov, A. N., Pavlov,
D. A., Tetelbaum, D. I., Sobolev, N. A. & Kumar, M. (2017). Formation of hexagonal 9R
silicon polytype by ion implantation. Technical Physics Letters, 43(8), 767–769. ISSN: 1090-
(13)  Kumar, M., Bhati, V. S., & Kumar, M. (2017). Effect of Schottky barrier height on hydrogen
gas sensitivity of metal/TiO2 nanoplates. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, 42(34),
22082-22089. ISSN: 0360-3199. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2017.07.144
(14)  Kumar, M., Kumar, R., Rajamani, S., Ranwa, Sapana, Fanetti, M., Valant, M., & Kumar, M.
(2017). Efficient room-temperature hydrogen sensor based on UV-activated ZnO nano-
network. Nanotechnology, 28(36), 365502. ISSN: 1361-6528. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-
(15)  Kumar, R., Goel, N., & Kumar, M. (2017). UV-Activated MoS2 Based Fast and Reversible
NO2 Sensor at Room Temperature. ACS Sensors, 2(11), 1744-1752. ISSN: 2379-3694.
(16)  Kumar, R., Goel, N., & Kumar, M. (2018). High performance NO2 sensor using MoS2
nanowires network. Applied Physics Letters, 112(5), 053502. ISSN: 0003-6951.
(17)  Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2017). Power quality recognition in distribution system
with solar energy penetration using S-transform and Fuzzy C-means clustering. Renewable
Energy, 106, 37-51. ISSN: 1879-0682. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2016.12.098
(18)  Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2017). Recognition of Power Quality Disturbances Using S-
Transform Based Ruled Decision Tree and Fuzzy C-Means Clustering Classifiers. Applied
Soft Computing, 59, 243-257. ISSN: 1568-4946. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2017.05.061
(19)  Mahia, R. N., & Fulwani, D. M. (2018). On Some Input-Output Dynamic Properties of
Complex Networks. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express Briefs, 65(2), 216-
220. ISSN: 1549-7747. https://doi.org/10.1109/TCSII.2017.2706968
(20)  Mahia, R. N., Singh, M., & Fulwani, D. M. (2018). Identification of optimal set of driver
nodes in complex networked systems using region of attraction. International Journal of
Control, Automation and Systems, 16(1), 97–107. ISSN: 2005-4092.
(21)  Mukherjee, S., & Biswas, A. (2018). Design of Planar High Gain Antenna using SIW
Cavity Hybrid Mode. IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, 66(2), 972-977. ISSN:
(22)  Nigam, A., Bhat, T. N., Rajamani, S., Dolmanan, S. B., Tripathy, S., & Kumar, M. (2017).
Effect of self-heating on electrical characteristics of AlGaN/ GaN HEMT on Si (111)
substrate. AIP Advances, 7(8), 085015. ISSN: 2158-3226. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.4990868
(23)  Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti, D., Mahato, A. K., Varun, I., & Tiwari, S. P. (2018).
Semiconductor: polymer blend ratio dependent performance and stability in low voltage
flexible organic field-effect transistors. Synthetic Metals, 236, 54–60. ISSN: 0379-6779.
Samant, A., Yadav, S. K., Badarla, V., & Mishra, S. (2017). A cross layer protocol to
mitigate effects of radio’s linear impairments. International Journal of Information and
Communication Technology, 11(2), 202-221. ISSN: 1741-8070.
Singh, S., Fulwani, D. M., & Kumar, V. (2017). Emulating DC constant power load: a
robust sliding mode control approach. International Journal of Electronics, 140(9), 1447-1464.
ISSN: 1362-3060. https://doi.org/10.1080/00207217.2017.1312703
Singh, S., Gautam, A. R., & Fulwani, D. M. (2017). Constant power loads and their effects
in DC distributed power systems: A review. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 72,
407–421. ISSN: 1364-0321. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2017.01.027
(27)  Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2017). A compact frequency-reconfigurable fractal
UWB antenna using reconfigurable ground plane. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters,
59(8), 1800–1808. ISSN: 1098-2760. https://doi.org/10.1002/mop.30631
(28)  Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. K. (2017). A Compact MIMO/Diversity Antenna with
WLAN Band-Notch Characteristics for Portable UWB Applications. Progress In
Electromagnetics Research C, 77, 29–38. ISSN: 1937-8718.
(29)  Varun, I., Bharti, D., Raghuwanshi, V., & Tiwari, S. P. (2017). Multi-temperature
deposition scheme for improved resistive switching behavior of Ti/AlOx/Ti MIM
structure. Solid State Ionics, 309, 86–91. ISSN: 0167-2738.
Arya, P., Jangid, D., Tiwari, S. P., & Arrawatia, M. (2017). Design and analysis of a
symmetric phase locked loop for low frequencies in 180 nm technology. In 2017
International conference on Microelectronic Devices, Circuits and Systems (ICMDCS) (pp. 1–6).
Vellore, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-1716-8.
Gangwar, A. K., & Shaik, A. G. (2018). Detection and classification of faults on
transmission line using time-frequency approach of current transients. In 2018 IEEMA
Engineer Infinite Conference (eTechNxT) (pp. 1–5). New Delhi, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-
Joshi, V., Shankar, B., Tiwari, S. P., & Shrivastava, M. (2017). Dependence of avalanche
breakdown on surface buffer traps in AlGaN/GaN HEMTs. In 2017 International
Conference on Simulation of Semiconductor Processes and Devices (SISPAD) (pp. 109–112).
Kamakura, Japan: IEEE. ISBN: 978-4-86348-610-2.
Kumar, V., & Chouhan, R. (2017). No-reference image quality assessment using Gabor-
based smoothness and latent noise estimation. In 2017 Seventh International Conference
on Image Processing Theory, Tools and Applications (IPTA) (pp. 1–6). Montreal, QC,
Canada: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-1842-4. https://doi.org/10.1109/IPTA.2017.8310104
Kumar, V., & Chouhan, R. (2017). No-Reference image quality assessment using gradient-
based structural integrity and latent noise estimation. In 2017 IEEE Region 10 Symposium
(TENSYMP) (pp. 1–5). Cochin, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5090-6255-3.
(6)  Mahato, A. K., Bharti, D., Joshi, V., Raghuwanshi, V., & Tiwari, S. P. (2017).
Comprehensive analysis of TIPS-Pentacene: polymer blend organic field-effect transistor
for device and circuit simulation. In 2017 IEEE 12th Nanotechnology Materials and Devices
Conference (NMDC) (pp. 194–195). Singapore: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-2772-3.
(7)  Maheshwari, S., & Tiwari, A. K. (2017). Wi-BioScan: Human identification based on radio
shadows. In 2017 IEEE SENSORS (pp. 1–3). Glasgow, UK: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5090-1012-7.
(8)  Mukherjee, S., & Biswas, A. (2017). Design of dual-frequency HMSIW cavity antenna for
Ka band application. In 2017 IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation
USNC/URSI National Radio Science Meeting (pp. 2487–2488). San Diego, CA, USA. ISBN:
(9)  Mukherjee, S. (2017). Design of Substrate Integrated Coaxial Line (SICL) fed dipole
antenna for K band application. In 2017 IEEE Applied Electromagnetics Conference
(AEMC) (pp. 1–2). Aurangabad, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-2393-0.
(10)  Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti, D., Mahato, A. K., Varun, I., & Tiwari, S. P. (2017). Effect of
thermal annealing on electrical stability of TIPS-pentacene flexible OFETs. In 2017 IEEE
12th Nanotechnology Materials and Devices Conference (NMDC) (pp. 192–193). Singapore:
IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-2772-3. https://doi.org/10.1109/NMDC.2017.8350552
Sivanagaraju, G., Rathore, A. K., & Fulwani, D. M. (2018). Discontinuous conduction
mode three phase buck-boost derived PFC converter for more electric aircraft with
reduced switching, sensing and control requirements. In 2018 IEEE Applied Power
Electronics Conference and Exposition (APEC) (pp. 1467–1472). San Antonio, TX, USA: IEEE.
ISBN: 978-1-5386-1180-7. https://doi.org/10.1109/APEC.2018.8341210
(12)  Yadav, Y. K., Jajoo, G., & Yadav, S. K. (2017). Modulation scheme detection of blind signal
using constellation graphical representation. In 2017 International Conference on Computer,
Communications and Electronics (Comptelix) (pp. 231–235). ISBN: 978-1-5090-4708-6.
Kumari, C., Varun, I., Tiwari, S. P., & Dixit, A. (2018). Non-volatile bipolar resistive
switching in sol-gel derived BiFeO3 thin films. ArXiv:1801.08502 [Cond-Mat].
Shiblee, M., Yadav, S. K., & Chandra, B. (2017). Fault Diagnosis of Internal Combustion
Engine Using Empirical Mode Decomposition and Artificial Neural Networks. In Huang
D. S., Hussain A., Han K., Gromiha M. (Eds.), Intelligent Computing Methodologies (pp. 188–
199). Springer, Cham. ISBN: 978-3-319-63315-2. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-63315-
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Sarveswaran, V. (2017). The Ground of Our Being: Dear Governor Cuomo as a Planetary
Narrative. In R. K. Alex, S. S. Deborah, R. Cheruvalath, & G. Prakash (Eds.), Ecocultural-
Ethics-Critical-Essays (pp. 109–118). Maryland: Lexington Press. ISBN: 978-1-4985-3248-8.
Department of Mathematics
Bhati, A., Hiremath, K. R., & Dixit, V. (2018). Square Patch-Based Dielectric Microwave
Absorber. Progress In Electromagnetics Research M, 63, 13–21. ISSN: 1937-8726.
Usmani, B., Vijay, V., Chhibber, R., & Dixit, A. (2017). Optimization of sputtered
zirconium thin films as an infrared reflector for use in spectrally-selective solar absorbers.
Thin Solid Films, 627, 17–25. ISSN: 0040-6090. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tsf.2017.02.055
Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2017). A robust image hashing based on discrete wavelet
transform. In 2017 IEEE International Conference on Signal and Image Processing Applications
(ICSIPA) (pp. 440–444). Kuching, Malaysia: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5090-5559-3.
Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2018). A robust watermarking scheme based on image
normalization. In 2018 IEEE 14th International Colloquium on Signal Processing Its
Applications (CSPA) (pp. 140–144). ISBN: 978-1-5386-0389-5.
Singh, S. P., Bhatnagar, G., & Gurjar, D. K. (2018). A secure image encryption algorithm
based on polar decomposition. In 2018 IEEE 14th International Colloquium on Signal
Processing Its Applications (CSPA) (pp. 135–139). ISBN: 978-1-5386-0389-5.
Sharma, P., & Raghav, M. (2017). Alterations And Rearrangements Of A Non-
Autonomous Dynamical System. ArXiv:1711.08573 [Math].
Usmani, B., Vijay, V., Chhibber, R., & Dixit, A. (2018). Effect of Growth Condition on
Mechanical Properties of Zirconium Carbonitride Absorber-Based Spectrally Selective
Coatings. In L. Chandra & A. Dixit (Eds.), Concentrated Solar Thermal Energy
Technologies: Recent Trends and Applications (pp. 137–143). Singapore: Springer. ISBN:
Usmani, B., Vijay, V., Chhibber, R., & Dixit, A. (2018). Solar performance analysis of
ZrOx/ZrC-ZrN/Zr/SS spectrally selective coating under extreme thermal environment.
In M. Muruganant, A. Chirazi, & B. Raj (Eds.), Frontiers in Materials Processing,
Applications, Research and Technology (pp. 191–201). Springer Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Boddupalli, N., Goenka, V., Chandra, L., Obaidli, A. A., Calvet, N., & Richter, C. (2017).
Fluid flow analysis behind heliostat using LES and RANS: A step towards optimized field
design in desert regions. AIP Conference Proceedings, 1850(1), 110001. ISSN: 0094-243X.
Boddupalli, N., Singh, G., Chandra, L., & Bandyopadhyay, B. (2017). Dealing with dust –
Some challenges and solutions for enabling solar energy in desert regions. Solar Energy,
150, 166–176. ISSN: 0038-092X. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solener.2017.04.032
Boddupalli, N., Yadav, N. K., & Chandra, L. (2018). The unsteady flow features behind a
heliostat in a narrow channel at a high Reynolds number: Experiment and large Eddy
simulation. International Journal of Mechanical Sciences, 136, 424–438. ISSN: 0020-7403.
Doughty, B., Srinivasan, S. G., Bryantsev, V. S., Lee, D., Lee, H. N., Ma, Y.-Z., &
Lutterman, D. A. (2017). Absolute Molecular Orientation of Isopropanol at Ceria (100)
Surfaces: Insight into Catalytic Selectivity from the Interfacial Structure. The Journal of
Physical Chemistry C. ISSN: 1932-7447. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.7b03272
Kumar, S. S., Chhibber, R., & Mehta, R. (2018). PEEK Composite Scaffold Preparation for
Load Bearing Bone Implants. Materials Science Forum, 911, 77–82. ISSN: 1662-9752.
(6)  Moges, T. M., Desai, K. A., & Rao, P. V. M. (2017). On modeling of cutting forces in micro-
end milling operation. Machining Science and Technology, 21(4), 562–581. ISSN: 1532-
(7)  Monde, A. D., & Chakraborty, P. R. (2017). 1-D diffusion based solidification model with
volumetric expansion and shrinkage effect: A semi-analytical approach. Physics Letters A,
381(39), 3349–3354. ISSN: 0375-9601. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physleta.2017.08.033
Phadatare, H. P., Maheshwari, V., Vaidya, K. S., & Pratiher, B. (2017). Large Deflection
Model for Nonlinear Flexural Vibration Analysis of a Highly Flexible Rotor-bearing
System. International Journal of Mechanical Sciences. 134, 532-544. ISSN: 0020-7403.
Phadatare, H., Choudhary, B., & Pratiher, B. (2017). Evaluation of nonlinear responses and
bifurcation of a rotor-bearing system mounted on moving platform. Nonlinear Dynamics,
90(1), 493–511. ISSN: 1573-269X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11071-017-3677-9
(10)  Rao, S. S., Chhibber, R., Arora, K. S., & Shome, M. (2017). Resistance spot welding of
galvannealed high strength interstitial free steel. Journal of Materials Processing Technology,
246, 252-261. ISSN: 0924-0136. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmatprotec.2017.03.027
Saini, A., Chhibber, R., & Chattopadhyay, A. (2017). Effect of combined fatigue and
hygrothermal loading on structural properties of E-glass/polymers. Proceedings of the
Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part C: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science,
231(18), 3382-3392. ISSN: 0954-4062. https://doi.org/10.1177/0954406216644268
(12)  Shah, S. V., Saha, S. K., & Dutt, J. K. (2017). A new perspective towards decomposition of
the generalized inertia matrix of multibody systems. Multibody System Dynamics, 1–34.
ISSN: 1573-272X. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11044-017-9581-8
Sharma, B., Chhibber, R., & Mehta, R. (2018). Seawater ageing of glass fiber reinforced
epoxy nanocomposites based on silylated clays. Polymer Degradation and Stability, 147, 103–
114. ISSN: 0141-3910. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.polymdegradstab.2017.11.017
Sharma, P. R., Soni, V. K., Pandey, S., Choudhary, G., Plappally, A. K., & Sharma, R. K.
(2017). Dipicrylhydrazine: A Versatile Visual Anions Sensor. Journal of Environmental
Chemical Engineering, 5(3), 2232-2239. ISSN: 2213-3437.
Raina, D., & Shah, S. V. (2017). Impact modeling and estimation for multi-arm space robot
while capturing tumbling orbiting objects. In Proceedings of the Advances in Robotics (p.
32:1–32:6). Delhi, India: ACM. ISBN: 978-1-4503-5294-9.
Ravindra, B. (2017). Are Indian electricity consumers ready to become solar prosumers? In
2017 International Conference on Technological Advancements in Power and Energy
(TAP Energy) (pp. 1–6). Kollam, India: IEEE. ISBN: 978-1-5386-4021-0.
Singh, G., & Chandra, L. (2017). Detrimental effects of dust deposition in pores of an open
volumetric air receiver. In Proceedings of SWC2017/SHC2017 (pp. 1–10). Abu Dhabi:
International Solar Energy Society. ISBN: 978-3-9814659-7-6.
Dirbude, S., Khalifa, N., & Chandra, L. (2018). Selective Design of an Experiment for
Evaluating Air–Water Hybrid Steam Condenser for Concentrated Solar Power. In L.
Chandra & A. Dixit (Eds.), Concentrated Solar Thermal Energy Technologies: Recent
Trends and Applications (pp. 89–102). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-4576-9.
Kumar, D., & Ravindra, B. (2018). Comments on Quality Control of Solar Radiation Data
Measured at a Ground Station in Hot and Dry Zone. In L. Chandra & A. Dixit (Eds.),
Concentrated Solar Thermal Energy Technologies: Recent Trends and Applications (pp.
31–40). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-4576-9. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-
Patidar, D., Pardeshi, R., Chandra, L., & Shekhar, R. (2017). Solar convective furnace for
heat treatment of aluminium. In Saha A., Das D., Srivastava R., Panigrahi P., Muralidhar
K. (Eds.), Fluid Mechanics and Fluid Power – Contemporary Research (pp. 1531–1541).
Springer, New Delhi. ISBN: 978-81-322-2743-4. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-81-322-2743-
Sachdeva, M., & Chandra, L. (2018). Transient Heat Transfer Analysis in Insulated Pipe
with Constant and Time-Dependent Heat Flux for Solar Convective Furnace. In L.
Chandra & A. Dixit (Eds.), Concentrated Solar Thermal Energy Technologies: Recent
Trends and Applications (pp. 235–249). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-4576-9.
Saha, A. K., Chandra, L., & Dixit, A. (2018). Transition Metal-Based Spectrally Selective
Coatings Using In-House Developed Spray System. In L. Chandra & A. Dixit (Eds.),
Concentrated Solar Thermal Energy Technologies: Recent Trends and Applications (pp.
145–155). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-4576-9. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-
Sharma, P., Chandra, L., Shekhar, R., & Ghoshdastidar, P. S. (2018). Experimental and
Computational Investigation of Heat Transfer in an Open Volumetric Air Receiver for
Process Heat Application. In L. Chandra & A. Dixit (Eds.), Concentrated Solar Thermal
Energy Technologies: Recent Trends and Applications (pp. 103–114). Singapore: Springer.
ISBN: 978-981-10-4576-9. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-4576-9_10
Tyagi, H., Agarwal, A. K., Chakraborty, P. R., & Powar, S. (2018). Introduction to
Applications of Solar Energy. In H. Tyagi, A. K. Agarwal, P. R. Chakraborty, & S. Powar
(Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy (pp. 3–10). Springer, Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-7206-2.
Agarwal, A., Ravindra, B., & Prakash, A. (2017). Development of algorithm to model
dispersed gas-liquid flow using lattice Boltzmann method. arXiv:1710.07073 [Physics].
Ravindra, B. (2017). Performance of a crystalline silicon photovoltaic power plant during
sandstorms. arXiv:1710.03790 [Physics]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.03790
Chandra, L., & Dixit, A. (Eds.). (2018). Concentrated Solar Thermal Energy Technologies:
Recent Trends and Applications. Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-4576-9.
Tyagi, H., Agarwal, A. K., Chakraborty, P. R., & Powar, S. (Eds.). (2018). Applications of
Solar Energy. Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-7206-2.  https://doi.org/10.1007/978-
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
(1)  Mishra, M. K., Rao, A. G., Balasundar, I., Kashyap, B. P., & Prabhu, N. (2018). On the
microstructure evolution in friction stir processed 2507 super duplex stainless steel and its
effect on tensile behaviour at ambient and elevated temperatures. Materials Science and
Engineering: A, 719, 82–92. ISSN: 0921-5093. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.msea.2018.02.032
Department of Physics
Alok, A. K., Bhattacharya, B., Datta, A., Kumar, D., Kumar, J., & London, D. (2017). New
physics in b→sμ+μ− after the measurement of RK∗. Physical Review D, 96(9), 095009.
ISSN: 2470-0029. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.96.095009
Alok, A. K., Bhattacharya, B., Kumar, D., Kumar, J., London, D., & Sankar, S. U. (2017).
New physics in b→sμ+μ−: Distinguishing models through CP-violating effects. Physical
Review D, 96(1), 015034. ISSN: 2470-0029. https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.96.015034
Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2017). D∗ polarization as a probe
to discriminate new physics in ¯B→D∗τ¯ν. Physical Review D, 95(11), 115038. ISSN: 2470-
Babbar, P., Ivanishchev, A., Churikov, A., & Dixit, A. (2017). Electrochemical behavior of
carbonic precursor with Na3V2(PO4)3nanostructured material in hybrid battery system.
Ionics, 23(11), 3067–3071. ISSN: 1862-0760. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11581-017-2095-9
Babbar, P., Tiwari, B., Purohit, B., Ivanishchev, A., Churikov, A., & Dixit, A. (2017).
Charge/discharge characteristics of Jahn–Teller distorted nanostructured orthorhombic
and monoclinic Li 2 MnSiO 4 cathode materials. RSC Advances, 7(37), 22990–22997. ISSN:
Balakrishnan, R., Dixit, A., Naik, R., & Rao, M. S. R. (2017). Enhancement in electrical and
magnetodielectric properties of Ca- and Ba-doped BiFeO3 polycrystalline ceramics. Journal
of the American Ceramic Society, 101(2), 782–788. ISSN: 1551-2916.
Bhattacherjee, S., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Less-dispersive specialty optical fibers
with an enhanced operational bandgap for applications in the mid-infrared region. Journal
of the Optical Society of America B, 35(1), 73–80. ISSN: 1520-8540.
Biswas, P., Pal, B. P., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2017). Toward self-similar propagation of
optical pulses in a dispersion tailored, nonlinear, and segmented bragg-fiber at 2.8 μm.
IEEE Photonics Journal, 9(4), 1–12. ISSN: 1943-0655.
Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., & Banerjee, S. (2017). Quantum discord of states arising from
graphs. Quantum Information Processing, 16(8), 183. ISSN: 1573-1332.
(10)  Gupta, G. K., Garg, A., & Dixit, A. (2018). Electrical and impedance spectroscopy analysis
of sol-gel derived spin coated Cu2ZnSnS4 solar cell. Journal of Applied Physics, 123(1),
013101. ISSN: 0021-8979. https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5002619
Ivanishchev, A. V., Churikov, A. V., Ivanishcheva, I. A., Ushakov, A. V., Sneha, M. J.,
Babbar, P., & Dixit, A. (2017). Models of lithium transport as applied to determination of
diffusion characteristics of intercalation electrodes. Russian Journal of Electrochemistry,
53(7), 706–712. ISSN: 1608-3342. https://doi.org/10.1134/S1023193517070047
(12)  Khandelwal, A., Vijay, A., Dixit, A., & Chhabra, M. (2018). Microbial fuel cell powered by
lipid extracted algae: A promising system for algal lipids and power generation.
Bioresource Technology, 247, 520-527. ISSN: 0960-8524.
(13)  Kumar, A., Bashiri, P., Mandal, B. P., Dhindsa, K. S., Bazzi, K., Dixit, A., Nazri, M., Zhou,
Z., Garg, V. K., Oliveira, A. C., Vaishnava, P. P., Naik, V. M., Nazri, G., &Naik, R. (2017).
Optimization of Electrochemical Performance of LiFePO4/C by Indium Doping and High
Temperature Annealing. Inorganics, 5(4), 67. ISSN: 2304-6740.
(14)  Kumari, C., Pandey, A., & Dixit, A. (2018). Zn interstitial defects and their contribution as
efficient light blue emitters in Zn rich ZnO thin films. Journal of Alloys and Compounds, 735,
2318-2323. ISSN: 0925-8388. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.11.377
(15)  Laha, A., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2017). Next-nearest-neighbor resonance coupling and
exceptional singularities in degenerate optical microcavities. Journal of the Optical Society of
America B, 34(10), 2050–2058. ISSN: 1520-8540. https://doi.org/10.1364/JOSAB.34.002050
(16)  Laha, S. S., Abdelhamid, E., Arachchige, M. P., Kumar, A., & Dixit, A. (2017). Ferroic
ordering and charge-spin-lattice order coupling in Gd-doped Fe3O4 nanoparticles relaxor
multiferroic system. Journal of the American Ceramic Society, 100(4), 1534–1541. ISSN: 1551-
(17)  Mall, A. K., Dixit, A., Garg, A., & Gupta, R. (2017). Temperature dependent electron
paramagnetic resonance study on magnetoelectric YCrO3. Journal of Physics: Condensed
Matter, 29(49), 495805. ISSN: 0953-8984. https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-648X/aa97bc
(18)  Naikoo, J., Alok, A. K., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Study of temporal quantum correlations in
decohering B and K meson systems. Physical Review D, 97(5), 053008. ISSN: 2470-0029.
(19)  Purohit, B., Kumawat, S., & Dixit, A. (2018). Enhancement in photocatalytic response of
inorganic-organic BiVO 4/C 3 N 4 composite system. Materials Research Express, 5(2),
024001. ISSN: 2053-1591. https://doi.org/10.1088/2053-1591/aaa804
Sahu, A., Chaurashiya, R., Hiremath, K., & Dixit, A. (2018). Nanostructured zinc titanate
wide band gap semiconductor as a photoelectrode material for quantum dot sensitized
solar cells. Solar Energy, 163, 338–346. ISSN: 0038-092X.
Sedrakian, A., Xu-Guang, H., Sinha, M., & Clark, J. W. (2017). From microphysics to
dynamics of magnetars. Journal of Physics: Conference Series, 861(1), 012025. ISSN: 1742-
(22)  Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2017). Quantum cryptography over non-
Markovian channels. Quantum Information Processing, 16(5), 115. ISSN: 1573-1332.
(23)  Tripathi, R. P., Dixit, A., & Bhandari, N. (2018). Characterization of Mukundpura
carbonaceous chondrite. Current Science (00113891), 114(1).
(24)  Trtica, M., Stasic, J., Batani, D., Benocci, R., Narayanan, V., & Ciganovic, J. (2018). Laser-
assisted surface modification of Ti-implant in air and water environment. Applied Surface
Science, 428, 669–675. ISSN: 0169-4332. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2017.09.185
Ghosh, S., Varshney, R. K., & Pal, B. P. (2017). Diffusive Dynamics and Signature of Phase
Singularities in Gain/Loss Assisted Disordered Optical Waveguide Lattices. In Frontiers in
Optics 2017 (2017), (p. JTu3A.81). Washington, D.C., USA: Optical Society of America.
ISBN: 978-1-943580-33-0. https://doi.org/10.1364/FIO.2017.JTu3A.81
Kumar, R. & Dixit, A. (2017). Ni-Co Co-Modified Anodized Spectrally Selective Coatings
with Enhanced Corrosion and Thermal Stability. In Proceedings of SWC2017/SHC2017
(pp. 1–7). Abu Dhabi: International Solar Energy Society. ISBN: 978-3-9814659-7-6.
Alok, A. K., Bhattacharya, B., Datta, A., Kumar, D., Kumar, J., & London, D. (2017). New
Physics in b→sμ+μ− after the Measurement of RK∗. arXiv:1704.07397 [Hep-Ex,
Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumar, J., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2017). RJ/ψ confronts
RD and RD∗. arXiv:1710.04127 [Hep-Ex, Physics:hep-Ph].
Bhattacherjee, S., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2017). Towards Ultra-Large Bandwidth and a
New Class of Specialty Optical Fibers. arXiv:1704.05710 [Physics].
Bhattacherjee, S., Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Three State Quantum System Exhibiting
Third Order Exceptional Singularities and Flip-of-States. ArXiv:1803.06004 [Quant-Ph].
Chaurashiya, R., Auluck, S., & Dixit, A. (2017). Cation modified A2(Ba, Sr, Ca and
Mg)ZnWO6 cubic double perovskites: A theoretical study. ArXiv:1707.03337 [Cond-Mat].
Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., & Banerjee, S. (2017). Zero discord quantum states arising from
weighted digraphs. ArXiv:1705.00808 [Math-Ph, Physics:Quant-Ph].
Ghosh, S. (2018). Signature of phase singularities in diffusive regime in one dimensional
disordered lattices: Interplay and qualitative analysis. ArXiv:1801.05113 [Physics].
Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2018). Simulation studies of CZT(S,Se) single and tandem
junction solar cells towards possibilities for higher efficiencies up to 22%.
ArXiv:1801.08498 [Physics]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1801.08498
Kumar, P., Banerjee, S., Srikanth, R., Jagadish, V., & Petruccione, F. (2017). Non-
Markovian evolution: a quantum walk perspective. https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.03267
(10)  Laha, A., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2017). Unconventional next nearest neighbor resonance
coupling and states flipping mechanism in degenerate optical microcavities.
arXiv:1704.04951 [Physics]. https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04951
(11)  Laha, A., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). All-Lossy Quasi-Guided Dual-Mode Optical
Waveguide Exhibiting Exceptional Singularities. https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.05220
(12)  Laha, A., Biswas, A., & Ghosh, S. (2018). Exceptional Points in a Specialty Microcavity:
Interplay between State-Conversion and Cavity Control Parameters.
(13)  Naikoo, J., Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., Sankar, S. U., Guarnieri, G., & Hiesmayr, B. C. (2017).
Legget-Garg-Type Inequalities and the neutrino mass-degeneracy problem.
arXiv:1710.05562 [Hep-Ph, Physics:quant-Ph]. http://arxiv.org/abs/1710.05562
(14)  Naikoo, J., Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2017). Probing nonclassicality in an
optically-driven cavity with two atomic ensembles. ArXiv:1712.04154 [Quant-Ph].
Sharma, V., & Banerjee, S. (2017). Analysis of atmospheric effects on satellite based
quantum communication: A comparative study. ArXiv:1711.08281 [Quant-Ph].
Sharma, V., Shrikant, U., Srikanth, R., & Banerjee, S. (2017). Decoherence can help
quantum cryptographic security. ArXiv:1712.06519 [Quant-Ph].
(17)  Dixit, K., Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Kumar, D. (2018). Geometric phase and neutrino
mass hierarchy problem. ArXiv:1703.09894 [Hep-Ph]. https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.09894
(18)  Thomas, G., Siddharth, N., Banerjee, S. & Ghosh, S. (2018). Thermodynamics of non-
Markovian reservoirs and heat engines. ArXiv:1801.00744 [Quant-Ph].
(19)  Kumar, N. P., Banerjee, S. & Chandrashekar, C. M. (2018). Enhanced non-Markovian
behavior in quantum walks with Markovian disorder. ArXiv:1802.05478 [Quant-Ph].
Sharma, V., Shrikant, U., Srikanth, R. & Banerjee, S. (2018). Decoherence can help quantum
cryptographic security. ArXiv:1712.06519 [Quant-Ph]. https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.06519
(21)  Naikoo, J., Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2018). Probing nonclassicality in an
optically-driven cavity with two atomic ensembles. ArXiv:1712.04154 [Quant-Ph].
Kumar, R., Jakhoria, R., & Dixit, A. (2018). Thermal Conductivity Enhancement of
Myristic Acid Using Exfoliated Graphite for Thermal Energy Storage Applications. In L.
Chandra & A. Dixit (Eds.), Concentrated Solar Thermal Energy Technologies: Recent
Trends and Applications (pp. 159–167). Singapore: Springer. ISBN: 978-981-10-4576-9.
Kumbhakar, S., Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., & Sankar, S. U. (2018). Study of D∗ Polarization to
Discriminate New Physics in B¯→D∗τν¯. In Naimuddin M. (Ed.), XXII DAE High Energy
Physics Symposium (Vol. 203, pp. 737–739). Springer, Cham. ISBN: 978-3-319-73171-1.
Raju, P. V. V. N. S. P., & Narayanan, V. (2018). Design of Field Layout for Central Receiver
System to Generate 100–150 kW Solar Thermal Power. In L. Chandra & A. Dixit (Eds.),
Concentrated Solar Thermal Energy Technologies (pp. 41–54). Singapore: Springer. ISBN:
Singh, G., Kumar, R., Dixit, A., & Chandra, L. (2018). Thermal and Materials Perspective
on the Design of Open Volumetric Air Receiver for Process Heat Applications. In
Himanshu Tyagi, Avinash K. Agarwal, Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, & Satvasheel Powar
(Eds.), Applications of Solar Energy (pp. 113–127). Springer, Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-
Awards & Recognitions
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
1.  Amit  Kumar  Mishra,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering,  IIT
Jodhpur, has been elected as a Member of the Royal Society of Biology, London on 1 April
Department of Chemistry
Research  work  of  Ritu  Gupta,  Rakesh  K.  Sharma,  Kiran  P.  Shejale,  and  Devika  Laishram
placed  on  March  2017  cover  of  Energy  Technology:  Generation,  Conversion,  Storage,
Distribution, a Wiley-Interscience Journal.
From  the  research  paper  Zinc  Oxide–Titania  Heterojunction-based  Solid  Nanospheres  as
Photoanodes  for  Electron-Trapping  in  Dye-Sensitized  Solar  Cells  authored  by  Ritu  Gupta  and
Rakesh  K.  Sharma  (Assistant  Professors  of  Chemistry)  and  Kiran  P.  Shejale  and  Devika
Laishram  (Ph.D.  Students  of  Department  of  Chemistry),  which  was  published  in  the  May
2017 issue of Energy Technology: Generation, Conversion, Storage, Distribution, published
by Wiley Interscience, a figure depicting the schematic of synthesized TiO2 nanospheres and the
changes  brought  about  by  the  incorporation  of  ZnO,  was  chosen  to  be  on  the  cover  of  the
Research work of Ritu Gupta and T. S. Fisher (Purdue University) placed on May 2017 cover
of  Energy  Technology:  Generation,  Conversion,  Storage,  Distribution,  a  Wiley-Interscience
From  the  research  paper  Scalable  Coating  of  Single-Source  Nickel  Hexadecanethiolate
Precursor  on  3D  Graphitic  Petals  for  Asymmetric  Supercapacitors  authored  by  Ritu  Gupta,
Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Chemistry,  IIT  Jodhpur  and  Timothy  S.  Fisher,
Professor,  Purdue  University,  which  was  published  in  the  May  2017  issue  of  Energy
Technology:  Generation,  Conversion,  Storage,  Distribution,  published  by  Wiley
Interscience,  a  figure
illustrating  the  “schematic  of  roll-to-roll  printing  of  nickel
hexadecanethiolate  ink  that  can  be  decomposed  under  ambient  condition  to  yield  NiOxSy
as a pseudocapacitive layer” was chosen to be on the cover of the Journal.
The  cover  image  illustrates  the  schematic  of  roll-to-roll  printing  of  nickel
hexadecanethiolate  ink  that  can  be  decomposed  under  ambient  condition  to  yield  NiOxSy
as a pseudocapacitive layer. The nickel-based pseudocapacitive layer is conformally coated
onto  three-dimensional  graphitic  structures  to  increase  the  surface  area  and  enhance  the
capacitance.  An  optimized  loading  of  the  pseudocapacitive  layer  onto  three-dimensional
graphene  petals  yields  a  supercapacitor  with  high  specific  capacitance  (2360  F  g1)  and
stability over 5000 cycles.
Sandip Murarka’s Publication in Advanced Synthesis & Catalysis has been recognized as a
“Very Important Publication (VIP)” by the Editorial Office and the Refeeres.
Recent years  have witnessed a resurgence  of novel, efficient and practical protocols
for  radical-mediated  cross  coupling  reactions  involving  N-(acyloxy)phthalimides  (NHPI
esters) as redox-active esters. After the initial discovery of redox active properties of NHPI
esters, an exciting range of SET-based cross coupling reactions under thermal or photolytic
conditions  leading  to  diverse  C-X  (X  =  C,  B,  Si,  Se,  S)  bonds  have  been  published.  The
operational  simplicity  and  broad  applicability  exhibited  in  redox  active  NHPI  ester  based
cross couplings bode well for its widespread adoption. The review presented herein covers
all  the  recent  developments  in  the  field  of  redox  active  ester  (RAE)-based  cross  couplings
since the initial discovery. Depending on the conditions employed the reactions have been
categorized in to photoinduced- and non-photoinduced cross couplings with representative
examples and insightful mechanistic discussions.
Department of Electrical Engineering
1.  Mahesh  Kumar,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  has  been
selected  for  2017  the  Institute  for  Smart  Structures  and  Systems  (ISSS)  Young  Scientist
Award  by.  He  will  be  sharing  this  award  with  another  young  researcher,  and  it  will  be
presented  at  the  Eighth  ISSS  International  Conference  on  Smart  Materials,  Structures  &
Systems being organised during 5-7 July 2017 at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.
The award carries an ISSS Medal, a Citation, and a cash prize of Rs. 50,000.
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
The  Public  Outreach  Grant  from  the  Deutches  Muesuem  and  the  Rachel  Carson  Center  for
Environment and Society, University of Munich, Germany, of the year 2017-18, was awarded to
Vidya  Sarveswaran,  of  Department  of  Humanities  &  Social  Sciences,  for  making  a
documentary film on society.
2.  Can  wisdom  be  fostered:  Time  to  test  the  model  of  wisdom  authored  by  Ankita  Sharma,
Assistant  Professor  and  Roshan  Lal  Dewangan,  Research  Associate,  Department  of
Humanities & Social Sciences has been published in Cogent Psychology (Volume 4, Issue 1).
The  article  mentions  about  the  authors’  research  on  aspects  of  wisdom  using  Western
models  within  a  South  Asian  context.  A  review  note  in  recognition  of  the  work  has  been
published by Center for Practical Wisdom, The University of Chicago on their website.
The following Outreach activities have been undertaken by the Faculty Members
at IIT Jodhpur during the FY 2017-18.
5th GIAN Course on Advanced Materials and Future Technologies for Solar Energy Conversion
8-12 January 2018
The  fifth  course  under  GIAN  Program  at  IIT  Jodhpur  on  Advanced  Materials  and
Future  Technologies  for  Solar  Energy  Conversion  was  organised  during  8-12  January  2018.
Ritu Gupta, Assistant Professor, IIT Jodhpur,  Mukundan Thelakkat, Professor, University
of  Bayreuth  and  Giridhar  U.  Kulkarni,  Professor,  Centre  for  Nano  and  Soft  Matter
Sciences,  Bangalore  were  the  key  resource  persons.  The  course  was  attended  by
participants  from  16  institutes  and  organisations,  including  9  Faculty  Members,  21
Students and 1 participant from industry and research organisations. The Course had 13
expert  lectures,  and  25  participants  credited  for  the  course.  Rakesh  K.  Sharma,  Head,
Department  of  Chemistry  Department,  IIT  Jodhpur,  extended  a  warm  welcome  to  the
international  Faculty  Member  as  well  as  participants,  and  set  up  the  stage  with  his
inspiring  opening  remarks.  B.  Ravindra, Head, Department  of Mechanical  Engineering,
IIT  Jodhpur  and  Local  GIAN  Coordinator,  briefed  the  participants  about  the  vision
behind  the  GIAN  Program  and  discussed  the  possibility  of  joint  research  partnership
between University of Bayreuth and IIT Jodhpur.
Group Photo of Participants of GIAN Program, Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students of Department of Chemistry with
National Workshop on Human-Centered Robotics (NWHCR’18), 17-18 March 2018
A National Workshop on Human-Centered Robotics (NWHCR’18) was organised at IIT
Jodhpur,  in  collaboration  with  The Robotics Society  (TRS)  during  17-18  March  2018.  The
workshop had two Keynote Talks, seven Expert Lectures and a Panel Discussion in the
area  of  Human-Centered Robotics by  eminent  Professors,  Scientists,  and  Researchers
from  Academia,  R&D  Organizations  and  Industry.  The  workshop  received  a  very
encouraging  response,  and  was  attended  by  more  than  90  participants.  The  workshop
emphasized bringing forward various problems and research opportunities in the area of
Human-Centered  Robotics.  More  specifically,  it  focused  on  robotic  rehabilitation,
medical robotics, and robotic simulators for training of human, assistive robotics, robot
navigation in a human environment, robot learning from human and safe robots.
Kaushal  A.  Desai,  General  Chair  and  Head,  Department  of  Mechanical
Engineering, welcomed the participants and experts to the workshop. The workshop was
inaugurated  by  K.  Madhava  Krishna,  Professor,  IIIT  Hyderabad.  S.  Bandyopadhyay,
Professor,  IIT  Madras,  Ranjan  Dasgupta,  TCS  Innovation  Lab,  Kolkata.  U.  K.  Singh,
Director,  Defence  Bio-engineering  and  Electro-medical  Lab.,  DRDO  and  S.  K.  Saha,
Professor,  IIT  Delhi  delivered  keynote  talks,  and  K.  Madhava  Krishna,  Professor,  IIIT
Hyderabad, delivered the inaugural invited talk. This was followed by the invited talks
by S. Bandyopadhyay, Professor, IIT Madras, B. Ravindran, Professor, IIT Madras, Sudipto
Mukherjee,  Professor,  IIT  Delhi,  Arun  Dayal  Udai,  Professor,  BIT  Mesra, and  Vineet
Vashistha, Professor, IIT Gandhinagar. The workshop concluded with a panel discussion
on challenges, opportunity, and road ahead in the area. The panel discussion was steered
by S. K. Saha, Professor, IIT Delhi with panel members as S. Bandyopadhyay, Professor, IIT
Madras, Vineet Vashistha, Professor, IIT Gandhinagar, A. K. Yadav, Defence Lab Jodhpur,
Abhay  Elhence,  Professor,  AIIMS  Jodhpur,  Ranjan  Dasgupta,  TCS  Innovation  Lab,
Kolkata, and Suril V. Shah, Assistant Professor, IIT Jodhpur.
Also, the workshop provided an opportunity to the participants to showcase their
research in the forms of posters and demonstrations and to experts to get their valuable
inputs. The participants were taken to Robotics Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur and explained
the ongoing research and were made aware of the facilities available in the Institute.
Group Photo of the Participants of NWHCR’18
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of Days of National Importance
Third International Yoga Day
The  Third  International  Yoga  Day  was  organized  on  21  June  2017  at  GPRA
Residential Campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur.  Faculty,  Staff  and  Students  actively participated  in
Yoga Instructor demonstrating to the participants
Yoga session in progress
71st Independence Day Celebration
The  71st  Independence  Day  of  the  Nation  was  celebrated  by  Members  of  IIT
Jodhpur, on 15 August 2017 at the First Building of the Permanent Campus in Karwad
Village.  The  Director  hoisted  the  National  Flag,  and  the  National  Anthem  was
patriotically sung by all present.
Faculty and Staff Members participated in Independence Day
Flag Hosting by Director IIT Jodhpur on 15 August 2017
Cultural Program by IIT Jodhpur Students on 15 August 2017
Birth Anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Celebrated at IITechnology Jodhpur
Birth Anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel also known as The Unifier of India,
was  celebrated  in  the  Institute  on  31  October  2017.  A  five-kilometer  Run  for  Unity  was
organized for the residents on this occassion. The Faculty Members, Staff Members, their
family members and Students took active part in this activity. Thereafter, a pledge taking
ceremony was organized for employees of IIT Jodhpur.
Flagging off of the Run for Unity by Director, IIT Jodhpur
Distribution of Prizes to participants of Run for Unity
Vigilance Awareness Week 2017 Observed at Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Vigilance Awareness Week 2017 was celebrated in Indian Institute of Technology
Jodhpur as per CVC guidelines from 30 October 2017 to 4 November 2017. The Pledge of
Integrity was administered by Director, IIT Jodhpur in the presence of Professor Gaurav
Harit,  Chief  Vigilance  Officer  of  the  Institute  for  all  Faculty  and  Staff  Members  on  30
A lecture by Shri Akhil Saxena, Principal, Regional Training Center, Intelligence
Bureau  was  organized  on  01  November  2017  at the  IIT  Jodhpur.  All  Faculty  Members,
Students and Staff Members attended the lecture and appreciated it. Essay Writing and
Presentation  competitions  on  the  topic  Role  of  Technology  in  Eradicating  Corruption,
was organized by the Chief Vigilance Officer on 02 November 2017 in the Institute for all
residents.  Also,  an  elocution  competition  on  the  theme  My  Vision  –  Corruption  Free
India,  was  organized  by  the  Chief  Vigilance  Officer  on  03  November  2017  in  the
Institute.  In  these  competitions  the  participants  expressed  their  thoughts  and  ideas  to
make India free of corruption.
The pledge of Integrity administered by the Director, IIT Jodhpur
Essay Writing and Presentation competitions
As a part of Vigilance Awareness Week Program, Advisor (Administration) administering Integrity Pledge to the Students of Kendriya
Vidyalaya IIT Jodhpur
Celebration of Children’s Day
The Cultural and Literary Society, Students Gymkhana, and Student Counseling
Services of IIT Jodhpur organized a musical night on the occasion of Children's Day on
14  November  2017.  The  Faculty  Members  and  Staff  Members  along  with  their  family
members  were  invited  to  attend  and  participate  in  the  program.  Wards  of  Faculty
Members and Staff Members actively took part in the musical program.
Wards of IIT Jodhpur Employees rendering a song on the occasion
Ankita Sharma, Chairperson, Student Counseling Service,
addressing the audience
Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat celebrated at IIT Jodhpur
Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat is an initiative launched by the Government of India to
foster national integration by a coordinated mutual engagement process between States,
Union  Territories,  Central  Ministries,  Educational  Institutions  and  general  public
through linguistic, literary, cultural, sports, tourism and other forms of people‐to‐people
A  program  Melodious  Assam  organized  by  Students  of  Cultural  and  Literacy
Society, Students Gymkhana, IIT Jodhpur, on 12 January 2018, which is celebrated as the
National Youth Day. It began with a presentation about the life of the illustrious Swami
Vivekananda, who was born on this day. An impromptu music performance enhanced
the evening. To celebrate Assam’s rich cultural heritage, Assamese songs from different
era were performed by Students and Faculty Members, followed by a poetry recital that
captured the essence of India’s diverse yet universal identity.
Assamese Song Mathu Tumi by Pawan Kishore
Assamese song Istirno Parore by Prodyut R. Chakraborty
69th Republic Day Celebration
The 69th Republic Day of the Nation was celebrated by Members of IIT Jodhpur,
on 26 January 2018 in front of the Administrative Block of the Permanent Campus. The
Director hoisted the National Flag, and the National Anthem was patriotically sung by
Faculty Members, Staff Memebrs and Students during Republic
Flag Hosting by Director IIT Jodhpur on 26 January 2018
Cultural Program by Students of IIT Jodhpur on 26 January 2018
A  3-day  Harmony  Workshop  for  Value-based  Education  was  organized  in  the
Institute  during  20-22  April  2017.  Professor  Rajeev  Sangal,  Director  IIT BHU,  Varanasi,
(pioneers of this initiative in IIT system) and Professor R. Pradeep Kumar, Professor and
Registrar,  IIIT  Hyderabad,  the  pioneers  of  this initiative  were  the  key  resource  persons
for  this  workshop.  The  program  was  attended  by  the  Faculty  Members,  the  critical
stakeholders  in  the  Institute,  Faculty  Members  from  All  Indian  Institute  of  Medical
Sciences, Jodhpur, and special guests from Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Jaipur.
Professor R. Pradeep Kumar addressing the participants
Participants engrossed in a group work
Foundation Day Celebrated at Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering celebrated its Foundation Day
during  15-16  February  2018.  The  program  had  six  Expert  Lectures  and  a  Panel
Discussion  in  the  area  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  by  eminent  Professors  from
Academia  and  R&D  organisations.  Sushmita  Jha,  Assistant  Professor  and  Head  of  the
Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  welcomed  the  Participants  and  Experts  to
the Program. This was followed by invited talks by Debashis Mitra, Director, Centre for
DNA  Fingerprinting  and  Diagnostics, Hyderabad,  Rakesh  Bhatnagar,  Professor,  School
of  Biotechnology,  Jawaharlal  Nehru  University,  New  Delhi,  Nihar  Ranjan  Jana,
Professor,  National  Brain  Research  Centre,  Gurgaon,  Dipankar  Nandi,  Professor,
Department  of  Biochemistry,  Indian  Institute  of  Science,  Bangalore,  Anirban  Basu,
Professor,  National  Brain  Research  Centre,  Gurgaon  and  Amitabha  Mukhopadhyay,
Professor, National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi. Also, the workshop provided
an opportunity to the participants to discuss their research and future roadmap for the
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering with the experts to get valuable inputs.
Professor Amitabha Mukhopadhyay addressing the participants.
Professor Nihar Ranjan Jana, addressing the participants.
Group Photo of Faculty Members and  Students with Invited Guests
Visitors to the Institute
Shri  Vijay  Goel,  Union  Minister  of  State  for  Statistics  &  Program  Implementation,  visits  IIT
Shri  Vijay  Goel,  Union  Minister  of  State
for  Statistics  &  Program
Implementation, visited  IIT  Jodhpur  on  23  February  2018.  Upon  arrival,  he  hoisted  the
flag  of  the  Ministry  and  held  a  meeting  with Director, Associate  Deans,  Heads  and
Professors  In-charge of  the  Institute,  along  with  Engineers  of CPWD  (who  are  the
construction  partners  of  IIT  Jodhpur).  A  presentation  was  made  on  the  development  of
the  work  at  the  Institute.  Then,  he  visited  some  facilities  in  the  Institute  like  the Berm,
Lecture  Hall  Building,  Service  Tunnel and Student  Hostels.  Before  the  departure, Shri
Vijay Goel planted a tree in front of the Institute Building as a mark of his first visit to the
Institute. Mr. Narayan Lal Panchariya, Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament in Rajasthan,
joined the Minister on the occasion.
Review of Development of the Institute
Flag Hoisting by Shri Vijay Goel, Honourable Minister of State,
Statistics & Program Implementation
Visit to the Service Tunnel
Visit to the Lecture Hall Building
Inter-IIT Sports Meet
IIT Jodhpur’s Participation
Faculty Members and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur actively participated in the
24th Inter-IIT Staff Sports Meet during 25-30 December 2017 by IIT Madras. The Faculty
Members  and  Staff  Members  participated  in  Cricket,  Badminton,  Table  Tennis,  and
Athletics.  Alongside,  Students  also  participated  in  the  46th  Inter-IIT  Sports  Meet  held
during 21-24 December 2017 at IIT Madras.
IIT Jodhpur moves into its Permanent Campus
IIT  Jodhpur  moved  into  its  sprawling  Permanent  Campus  located  on  NH  65,
Nagaur Road, Karwar (Village), Jodhpur (City) during May – June 2017. By shifting its
entire  academic  activities  to  its  Permanent  Campus,  the  Institute  crossed  a  major
milestone. This new campus has been planned meticulously and envisioned to stand as a
symbol  of  academics  –  simple,  but  deep.  More  importantly,  it  will  be  an  international
exemplar  of  sustainability  with  strategies  for  ensuring  NET  ZERO  ENERGY,  WATER
and WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are:
(1) Walking campus, which is pedestrian oriented and bicycle dominant;
(2) Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with wireless ICT backbone (including Multi-
media enabled learning spaces          with flexible, shared public spaces);
(3)  Thermally  comfortable  smart  buildings  with  GRIHA  4/5  star  compliant  buildings
and GRIHA LD benchmark campus (including dense desert settlement morphology,
low height buildings (up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low embodied energy
materials, and improved local and traditional methods);
(4) Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection from dusty wind to arrest
erosion, desertification, and building-up soil moisture over time;
(5) Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and sewage recycling, together greening
the site over time; and
(6) Segregated wastes and customized recycling.
For  its  copybook-style  Master  Plan,  IIT  Jodhpur’s  Permanent  Campus  was
selected for the 2017 Exemplary Performance Award in the ‘Passive Architecture Design’
category by the Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) Council of the
Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India.
The  work  towards  Phase  1  Development  of  the  Permanent  Campus  was
completed by Central Public Works Department, in association with M/s NCC Limited,
for an amount of Rs. 496 Crores; the work towards Phase 2 Development commenced in
October  2017  with  M/s  Tata  Projects  Limited  for  an  amount  of  Rs.  549  Crores.  This
development  work  was  reviewed  by  Shri  Vijay  Goel,  Union  Minister  of  State  for
Statistics  &  Program  Implementation,  Government  of  India,  during  his  visit  to  IIT
Jodhpur  on  23  February  2018.  He  visited  the  different  elements  of  construction
undertaken at the Institute.
The  Faculty  Members  relocated  into  the  60  flats  in  the  Park  Avanue  residential
colony. Students moved into the newly constructed Single AC Room accommodations in
the 5 hostel buildings. A dedicated dining hall building caters to the needs of students
and other residents. It has a mess and a canteen that serve hygienic and nutritious food.
Alongside  the  shifting  of  residents,  i.e.,  the  Students,  Faculty  Members  and  Officers  to
the  Permanent  Campus,  the  essential  services  and  amenities  also  were  established  to
facilitate residents in their day-to-day needs. A Primary Health Center was established in
the  residential  area,  in  collaboration  with  M/s.  Goyal  Hospital  &  Research  Center,
Jodhpur,  and  is  ISO:9001  certified.  Basic  services  (like  the  groceries,  dining  and  food
court, bank, stationery, laundry, beauty parlour and salon services) were soon started in
the Community Center towards southern side of the Campus. A Kendriya Vidyalaya was
started  in  October  2017,  and  currently,  it  runs  Classes  1  to  8.  It  is  housed  in  the  First
Building  of  IIT  Jodhpur,  for  the  time  being.  Subsequently,  it  will  move  into  its  own
building  after  Phase  2  Development  is  complete.  There  is  a  dedicated  bus  service  for
commuting  from  the  Campus  to  and  from  the  city  of  Jodhpur.  The  construction  of
quarters for Staff Members is underway and will be ready soon. The photographs in the
pages to follow give a glimpse of the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur.
A view of the Main Building of IIT Jodhpur and the adjoining berms
Department Buildings of IIT Jodhpur: A view from hostels
Blue 1: Boys Hostel, IIT Jodhpur
Dusky view of The Learning Hub: IIT Jodhpur Library
A view of Park Avenue: Faculty & Officers Housing during the hailstorm
ISO Certified Primary Health Center
Shopping Center in the Community Center, Jaisalmer Club
Orientation Program 2017 at Permanent Campus
Student Activity @ Lecture Hall Complex
Registration Session of Post Graduate Students at Permanent Campus
ACADEMIC & RESEARCH FACILITIES
By  relocating  to  its  Permanent  Campus,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  completely  shifted  its
academic  and  research  operations  to  its  own  campus.  The  Permanent  Campus  of  IIT
Jodhpur spreads across 852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center of the city
of Jodhpur on National Highway 65 towards Nagaur, N-NE from the center of Jodhpur.
The permanent campus has 3 parcels of land. Presently construction exist in Pockets A
and B. By the end of the First Phase of Construction, the buildings that are ready for its
academic, research and administrative activities are:
1.  Main Building, housing all the administrative offices of the Institute;
2.  The  Learning  Hub,  housing  the  Library  of  the  Institute,  and  accommodating  the
3.  Lecture  Hall  Building  with  9  classrooms  of  60  seating  capacity  and  a  325  and  650
seater  classrooms  each.  All  the  classrooms  are  air  conditioned,  equipped  with
modern learning facilities like the Internet and audio visual facilities;
4.  The Basic Laboratories are established in one building;
5.  Department  of  Computer  Science  &  Engineering  (CSE)  Building  houses  the
Departments  of  CSE,  Mathematics,  and  Humanities  &  Social  Sciences.  Also,  the
laboratories of Computer Science & Engineering are established in this building;
6.  Departments  of  Chemistry  and  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  are  housed  in  the
building of Department of Chemistry;
7.  Departments of Electrical Engineering and Physics share the space in the building of
Department of Electrical Engineering;
8.  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering  also  houses  the  newly  established
Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineeiring;
9.  Besides  these  buildings,  the  First  Building  of  IIT  Jodhpur  in  Pocket  B  houses  the
Office of Infrastructure.
Laboratories and Research Facilities
IIT  Jodhpur  has  established  state-of-the-art  teaching  and  research  laboratories.
These  advanced  laboratories  have  machinery  and  devices  of  international  standard,
which  are  actively  used  in  research.  After  moving  to  the  Permanent  Campus,  the
Institute  has  centralized  the  management  of  its  sophisticated  instruments  under  one
umbrella, with the formation of the Center for Advanced Scientific Instruments (CASE);
norms  were  approved  for  use  of  these  expensive  equipments  by  internal  and  external
users.  This  move  will  increase  utility  of  these  equipments,  reduce  their  downtime  and
permit  sharing  of  the  same  with  Institutes  that  do  not  have  such  facilities.  A  separate
building is under construction for housing these equipments in one location on campus.
Library  of  IIT  Jodhpur,  known  as  The  Learning  Hub,  has  a  collection  of  about
12,000  volumes  of  books  comprising  of  textbooks,  research  and  reference  books,
monographs etc. In addition, the Library provides access to a range of journal resources
from  professional  and  scholarly  societies  and  publishers.  The  Library  operates  in  a
computerized environment with automated member & circulation services, and digital
library services. Memberships, circulation, reference & information service, inter library
loans & document lending services, current awareness service, digital library service are
some of the important services that are presently offered. Besides, the library also houses
a Children’s Library on its Ground Floor for the children of campus.
Facilities on Campus
Following  are  some  basic  facilities  that  aee  made  available  on  Permanent
Campus of IIT Jodhpur:
(a)  ATM & Bank: The IIT Jodhpur Branch of SBI (State Bank of India) and its ATM are
housed in the Community Center Building, enabling students and residents to make
transactions with ease.
(b)  Dining Hall: The Dining Hall Building has a Mess and a Restaurant that cater to the
needs  of  students  and  employees.  They  provide  hygienic  food,  fresh  juices  and
various other snacks. The mess offers good quality food, regularly monitored by the
Wardens for hygiene and nutritional values, and provided at affordable cost.
(c)  Gymnasium: All students hostels have well-equipped gymnasium for students.
(d)  Entertainment  Room:  Every  hostel  consists  of  recreation  facilities  (like  TV  Rooms,
where students can enjoy matches and watch movies) along with indoor games (like
table tennis and carroms).
(e)  Laundry  Service:  Students  and  residents  are  facilitated  with  a  dedicated  laundry
service on campus.
(f)  Shopping  Center:  Shops  catering  to  the  various  primary  needs  of  students  and
residents, like, grocery, stationery, grooming parlour, milk parlour, are housed in the
Community Center Building.
(g)  Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Permanent
Campus  and  Jodhpur  City  at  regular  intervals,  exclusively  for  the  Students  of  the
(h)  Medical  Services:  The  Primary  Health  Center  operated  by  M/s.  Goyal  Hospital  &
Research Center Pvt. Ltd., Jodhpur, in the residential area of the Institute,  provides
routine  health  services  to  students  and  residents  of  the  Campus.  Besides  this  fully
functional, round-the-clock, ISO Certified, Primary Health Center in the campus, IIT
Jodhpur is fortunate to have in the city an all new state-of-the-art All India Institute
of Medical Sciences, the associated Hospitals of the S. N. Medical College and some
specialized  hospitals.  The  Institute  has  agreements  with  a  few  prominent  hospitals
for priority treatment to its employees and students. These include: Goyal Hospital
and Research Center, Medi Pulse Hospital, and Vasan Eye Care Hospital. Also, the
Institute  has  constituted  a  Medical  Board  consisting  of  Senior  Doctors  from  the
Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services
of the Health Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT Jodhpur has empanelled two
hospitals  in  Jaipur.  These  two  hospitals  are  accredited  by  National  Accreditation
Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as
per the need of the treatment.
The  Institute  has  a  modern  Computer  Center,  presently  running  on  a  gigabit
LAN  with  1Gbps  internet  bandwidth.  It  is  the  nucleus  of  all  computing  activities  for
Students, Staff Members and Faculty Members. Several terminals running on Windows
and GNU/Linux operating systems across the campus provide access to several licensed
software,  like  MatLab,  Mathematica,  Cadence,  Mentor  Graphic,  Ansys,  PSCAD  and
Solidworks.  A  802.11/b/g/n  Wi-Fi  service  is  enabled  in  the  academic  and  residential
areas.  Also,  the  Computer  Centre  hosts  a  High  Performance  Computing  cluster  for
The Institute has five key resources  at the Computer Center, namely, the Linux
Operating System, SVN Server, GIT Server, OwnCloud and various licensed application
software that are used for academic and research purpose, have made it possible to offer
the various resources and facilities.
The  Institute  extends  three  facilities,  namely,  networking,  computing,  Internet
access, and LDAP and Active Directory ID facilities through its Computer Center.
The  Institute  offers  services  like  FTP,  LDAP,  HPC,  Web  Hosting,  Network
Connectivity, VPN, EduRoam, and News Group, through its Computer Center.
The Learning Hub, i.e., the library supports teaching and research activities of the
Institute  by  facilitating  acquisition,  organization  and  dissemination  of  knowledge
resources,  and  also  by  providing  library  &  information  services  to  IIT  Jodhpur
community.  The  Learning  Hub  on  the  Permanent  Campus  of  the  Institute  is  sited  pre-
eminently  at  the  entrance  of  the  academic  area  of  the  Institute,  stands  as  the  tallest
structure  on  the  campus  scaling  over  15m  from  the  ground;  keeps  time  for  the  entire
campus  with  a  4-way  clock  at  the  clock  tower, only  the  third  in  the city  of Jodhpur.  It
functions  with  the  guidance  of  Library  Committee,  which  has  representatives  from  all
Departments, and Student Representatives.
The Learning Hub, Library Building in Permanent Campus, IIT Jodhpur
The  Library  has  a  rich  and  growing  collection  of  12,000  volumes  of  books
(approx.), which include textbooks, and books of general and reference nature. A wide
range  of  scholarly  journals  and  databases  are  also  subscribed  from  various  sources  for
the academic and research purposes of the Institute.
Services & Facilities
The  following  services  and  facilities  are  being  provided  by  the  Library  to  its
1.  Member & Circulation Services,
2.  Orientation & User Education,
3.  Borrowing Facility,
4.  Reference & Information Service,
5.  Course Reserves,
6.  Current Awareness Service,
7.  Inter Library Loan & Document Supply, and
8.  Digital Library Facility & Services.
Digital  resources  are  accessible  through  the  Library  website,  which  is  a
comprehensive  site  maintained  by  Library.  These  include  the  Library  subscribed
resources, online catalogue, lists  of useful resources accessible in the open domain like
the  open  access  journals,  books,  repositories,  video  lectures,  open  courseware.  These
resources are continuously updated.
Also,  Library  maintains  a  portal  for  hosting  bibliographic  listing  of  the  Faculty
Publications.  Additionally,  a  course  guide  portal  has  also  been  developed  and
maintained  by  Library,  wherein,  resources  i.e.,  books  available  in  Library,  subscribed
journals,  resources  accessible  in  open  domain  are  listed  and  linked,  course-wise.  This
platform  is  very  useful  for  the  students  in  finding  topical  and  course-wise  resources.
Library  also  provides  remote  access  to  the  subscribed  scholarly  resources  and  anti-
Stacks & General Section
Course Reserves & Digital Library Section
Appearing below are some vital statistics of Library for FY 2017-18:
a.  Number of titles added
b.  Number of volumes added
Number of Scholarly Resources subscribed (For CY 2018)
a.  Fulltext resources
b.  Research databases
Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requested fulfilled
a.  Document supply of articles & research papers
b.  Books arranged on Inter Library Loans
a.  Number of book check-outs
b.  Number of book check-ins
c.  Number of book renewals
d.  Number of book recalls
Details of Journal Resources
Library  has  licensed  the  following  journal  resources  in  this  year,  for  teaching,
research and private study of its academic community.
1.  Association of Computing Machinery Digital Library,
2.  American Chemical Society Journals,
3.  American Physical Society Journals,
4.  American Society for Mechanical Engineers Digital Library,
5.  EBSCO Academic Search Complete,
IEL (IEEE) Online Digital Library,
Institute for Studies in Industrial Development (ISID) Database,
10.  Nature Journal,
11.  Oxford University Press Journals,
12.  Elsevier Science Journals,
13.  Society of Industrial & Applied Mathematics Journals, and
14.  Springer Journals.
Also,  the  Library  is  a  core  member  of  the  eShodhSindhu:  Consortium  for  Higher
Education  Electronic  Resources,  operated  by  INFLIBNET  Center,  Gandhinagar,  through
which subscriptions to major resources are fulfilled. Besides, the Library is a member of
DEveloping Libraries NETwork (DELNET), New Delhi through which the Library meets its
Inter Library Loan requirements.
Library subscribes to Antiplagiarism Tool and Remote Access Tool for its users.
Orientation sessions and Library Instruction sessions for Students are conducted by the
Library Staff Members during registration of new students and on demand.
Alongside  of  providing  regular  library  services,  the  Library  Staff  Members  are
engaged in rendering services in preparation of Institute’s publications like the Annual
Report,  Institute  Newsletter;  and  actively  contribute  in  maintaining  the  Institute’s
website and repositories.
IIT  Jodhpur  has  established  good  number  of  teaching and  research laboratories
and facilities, which aid in elevating the students from minimalist academic concerns to
inquisitive  world  of  scientific  arena.  These  teaching  and  research  laboratories  help
Faculty Members and Students work for better future by supplementing and improving
existing  technologies  and  bodies  of  knowledge,  using  competence,  creativity  and
After  moving  to  the  Permanent  Campus,  the  Institute  has  centralized  the
management of its sophisticated instruments under one umbrella, with the formation of
the  Center  for  Advanced  Scientific  Instruments  (CASE);  norms  were  approved  for  use  of
these  expensive  equipments  by  internal  and  external  users.  This  move  will  increase
utility of these equipments, reduce their downtime and permit sharing of the same with
Institutes that do not have such facilities. A separate building is under construction for
housing these equipments in one location on campus.
Appearing  below  is  a  department-wise  list  of  laboratories  established  in  IIT
Jodhpur whose details are given in the following pages. With the availability of separate
building  for  CASE,  the  equipment  in  these  laboratories  will  be  moved  to  the  central
Name of the Laboratory
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
Chemical Biology laboratory
Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
Protein Engineering Laboratory
Department of Chemistry
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Networking Technologies Laboratory
Department of Electrical Engineering
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
Instrumentation & Communication Laboratory
Power Electronics Laboratory
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
Dynamics & Vibration Laboratory
Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Materials Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
Renewable Energy Laboratory
Solar Radiation Laboratory
Department of Physics
Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS / SQUID) Laboratory
Materials Analysis Laboratory
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
The  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering  (formerly  Department  of
Biology) has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
The Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory is a part of the center of
excellence  in  biologically  inspired  systems  science  (BISS).  This  laboratory  provides
cellular  and  molecular  investigative  tools  for  UG  and  PG  teaching  and  research  in
neuroscience.  Cell  culture  studies  are  utilised  along  with  molecular  biology,
biochemistry  and  microscopy  approaches  to  elucidate  the  molecular  mechanisms
underlying  molecular  and  cellular  interactions  underlying  inflammation  and  repair.
Inflammation  is  a  key  component  of  many  diseases  including  traumatic  brain  injury,
cancer, multiple sclerosis, stroke, asthma, Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease.
Inflammation is characterized by accumulation and proliferation of innate immune cells.
This  is  followed  by  clearance  of  dead  cells  and  cellular  debris  along  with  enhanced
expression  of  molecular  mediators  called  cytokines  and  chemokines,  which  cause
migration  and  proliferation  of  immune  cells  and  may  even  lead  to  cell  death.
Understanding  the  mechanisms  by  which  inflammation  occurs,  and  the  molecular
mediators involved in this process, is necessary for identification of potential therapeutic
2. Chemical Biology Laboratory
The  Chemical  Biology  Laboratory  deploys  cellular  and  molecular  biology
approaches to explore the pathogenesis of cancer and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Given the interest in neuronal death, it is no wonder that this lab team is interested in E3
ubiquitin  ligases  essential  for  quality  control  events  in  neuronal  survival.  Protein
ubiquitylation  is  highly  versatile,  ordered,  the  multistep  post  translation  modification
enzymatic process that regulates numerous aspects of cell physiology. This lab team has
been  studying  the  role  of  such  E3  ligases  to  find  out  the  role  of  quality  control  E3
ubiquitin  ligases  in  maintenance  of  proteostasis  and  hence  playing  a  role  in  cellular
survival and  death.  Such important  biochemical  findings  may  contribute  to innovative
therapeutic approaches for the diseases associated with misfolded proteins.
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control
mechanism  which  the  lab  team  is  trying  to  understand  at  present.  The  role  of  E3
ubiquitin ligases was reported in such mechanisms so far. Our laboratory is dedicated to
a  qualitative  research  in  the  field  of  protein  quality  control  mechanisms.  We  have
recently  found  that  a  HECT  domain  containing  E3  ubiquitin  ligase  E6-AP  helps  in
Amyotrophic  Lateral  Sclerosis  diseases  suppression  through  its  association  with  the
misfolded protein  aggregates formed by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support that an
E3  ligase  can  have  a  capability  to  clear  the  misfolded  protein  aggregation.  However,
while  appreciating  the  incredible  efficiency  of  cellular  systems,  we  must  recognize  the
crucial  role  of  chaperones  which  are  supposed  to  work  preferentially  compared  to  E3
ubiquitin  ligases  in  order  to  refold  the  misfolded  proteins,  and  hence  conserving  the
energy utilized during the translation of those proteins. Various examples made us think
that  we  could  explore  the  role  of  both  the  chaperones  and  E3  ubiquitin  ligases  in  the
clearance  of  misfolded  proteins.  Therefore,  now  we  are  working  not  only  with  E3
ubiquitin ligases but also with the chaperones and even in their functional association to
confer an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell.
3. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
The  Environmental  Biotechnology  Laboratory  at  IIT  Jodhpur,  in  addition  to
serving  various  undergraduate  and  post-graduate  courses,  undertakes  research  in  the
areas  of  bioenergy  and  bioremediation.  Researchers  in  the  lab  investigate  on  waste  to
energy  conversion  processes  with  an  aim  to  develop  sustainable  biotechnological
solutions to water pollution and energy. At present, successful bioremediation processes
for nitrate and chromium (VI) contaminated wastes have been developed. Also, research
is underway for the development of low cost Microbial Carbon Capture cells for power
generation  and  algae  cultivation.  In  addition  to  this,  researchers  in  the  lab  have  been
successful in isolating novel yeasts, the potential biodiesel producing candidates.
4. Protein Engineering Laboratory
The Protein Engineering Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur
is  undertaking  cutting  edge  research  in  developing
biomaterials based on the understanding of structural and
functional  properties  of  useful  proteins  such  as  collagen.
The  implications  of  the  research  could  also  extend
towards development of effective biomedical devices and
The  Department  of  Chemistry  has  the  following  laboratories  for  teaching  and
Department of Chemistry
1. Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students
in scientific methods that would solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding
of the matter. This is a multi-use laboratory and provides a number of resources to assist
undergraduate, graduate and Ph.D. students in planning their professional careers after
completing their academic program at IIT Jodhpur.
This  laboratory  maintains  a  broad  spectrum  of  state-of-the-art  instrumentation
including  basic  laboratory  set  up  (for  organic,  inorganic,  organometallic  and  material
synthesis),  Nitrogen,  Oxygen  and  LPG  gas  line,  Inert  atmosphere  boxes,  vacuum  line
work,  fume  hood  pH,  conductivity,  BOD,  COD,  meters,  Rotary  evaporator,  Vacuum
pumps,  centrifuges,  High  pressure  reactor  system,  Chiller,  microbalances,  Orbital
Shaker,  GC,  HPLC  and Radleys  ready  reactor.  In  the  academic  year  2012-2013,  the  lab
procured  equipment  such  as  Polarimeter,  Melting  point  Instrument,  Solar  Simulator,
Digital Titrator, Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery analysers.
A  500  MHz  NMR  spectrometer  with  solid  state  probe  is  an  essential  resource,
whose  mission  is  to  make  a  state-of-the-art  high  field  NMR  and  methods  available  to
researchers,  providing  a  place  for  them  to  pursue  their  projects  and  develop  new
methodologies in NMR methods.
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer (500 MHz)
Powder X-ray Diffractometer
Scanning Electron Microscope and Electron Dispersion
Surface Area Analyzer
Atomic Force Microscope
High Pressure Reactor
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
The  Department  of  Computer  Science  &  Engineering  has  the  following
laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Multimedia Laboratory
The Media Laboratory provides facilities to carry out work related to E-learning,
image  processing,  and  computer  vision.  The  thrust  areas  of  research  in  this  lab  are:
Semantic  analysis  of video/image content, video  surveillance, human  motion  analysis,
document image analysis, content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities
include  video  recording,  audio-video  digitization,  video  editing,  etc.  In  the  academic
year  2011-2012,  a  research  on  Indian  sign  language  recognition  using  Kinect  has  been
1.  Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook.
2.  Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP
3.  Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
2. Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking  Technologies  Laboratory  has  been  started  functioning  in  the
Academic  Year  2011-2012.  It  aims  at  enabling  undergraduate  and  graduate  students,
who pursue their interest in the area of computer networks, to understand the concepts
of computer networks and work with contemporary networking equipment in a realistic
setting.  In  addition,  the  lab  aims  at  providing  necessary  infrastructure  to  carry  out
research  activities  on  advanced  topics,  such  as  wireless  mesh  networks,  sensor
networks, communication on power lines, from computer networks. The activities that
take place in this laboratory are:
1.  Prototyping of networking hardware (Example, Ethernet switch, IPV4 router etc.)
2.  Developing packet processors using “Click router” modular software framework.
3.  Establishing  infrastructure  for  the  mini-Internet,  single-hop  wireless  networks,
multi-hop  wireless  mesh  and  sensor  networks,  power  line  communication
networks, home phone line networks.
4.  Studies related to the performance analysis of various protocols over on different
5.  Development  of  novel  routing  algorithms,  transport  layer  mechanisms,  and
services for next generation networks.
6.  Setting  up  planet-lab  infrastructure  (which  will  essentially  become  part  of  the
global  distributed  computing  platform  created  over  the  Internet  by  connecting
over 500+ sites). This allows the students and researchers not only to understand
to  develop  new
technologies/applications  on  the  Internet  for  distributed  storage,  networking
mapping, peer-to-peer systems, content distribution service, and cloud computing.
Department of Electrical Engineering
The  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering  has  the  following  laboratories  for
teaching and research purposes.
1. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The  lab  provides  software  and  hardware  infrastructure  for  carrying  out
experiments in the field of Control Systems, Microprocessor and DSP. Broadly, the lab
includes the following experimental setup:
1. Control Systems
(a)  Ball & Beam System from Quanser
(b)  Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser
(c)  Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser
(d)  Software include Scilab / MatLab
2. DSP Lab Equipment
3. Microprocessor Lab
3. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In  this  laboratory  the  students  make  and  test  their  analog  and  digital  circuits  by
using all kinds of circuit components like diode, transistor, op-amps, and clocks. The lab
has following equipment:
1.  Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent
2.  Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent
3.  Programmable Power Supply from Scientific
4.  6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
4. Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The  mission  of  Instrumentation  and  Communication  Laboratory  is  to  provide
platform  for  UG  and  PG  students  on  research  and  hands-on  learning  in  Measurement
and  Automation  Technology.  The  state-of-the-art  facilities  at  this  laboratory  offer
innovative research opportunities in the astronomical space of communication and real
time  measurement  technology.  The  experienced  Lab  team  nurtures  students'  talent  in
research  and  offers  an  opportunity  for  developing  sophisticated  measurement,  test,
control systems, data analysis system and next generation communication technologies.
Students  also  develop  theoretical  and  practical  competence  in  (i)  building
baseband  communication    circuits,  (ii)  the  application  of  NI  LabVIEW  graphical
programming  software,  (iii)  the  PXI  based  NI  RF/Wireless  measurement  stand,  (iv)
evaluating NI WSNs and LabVIEW software, adjusting a software-defined radio system,
measuring  the  parameters  of  studied  antennas  and  (v)  the  operation  of  analog
modulation schemes. NI-Lab contains software and hardware subsystems which enable
rapid  prototyping  and  development  of  embedded  systems  for  various  applications.
Currently, this lab constitutes the following setups:
1.  NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand
2.  Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard
3.  Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA,
4.  FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme
Development and Research
5.  Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand
6.  Wireless Sensor Networks Stand
7.  Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand
8.  Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand
9.  FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing
10.  VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand
11.  Fiber Optic Communication Stands
12.  Network Based Manufacturing
13.  USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless communication system for
physical layer design, record and playback, signal intelligence, algorithm validation and
14.  Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After  three  years  of  its  formation,  this  lab  has  contributed  immensely  to  the
learning  and  research  activities  at  IIT  Jodhpur. Communications  and  Networking  Lab,
Intelligent  Instrumentation,  System  Analysis  Techniques  and  Bio-Sensors  courses  are
being  offered  through  this  lab  for  both  graduate  and  undergraduate  students.  The  lab
has  provided  the  right  hardware  and  software  tools  for  many  industrial  consultancy
projects, including the development of DRM/DRM+ IP for digital radio standards, Link
budget  design  for  Marine  environment,  DRFM  based  Radar  echo  simulator  and  Blind
Signal Demodulator. Other projects being done in the lab are development of affordable
wireless video transmission systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee protocol development.
5. Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in
the  area  of  power  electronics  based  power  conversion  systems,  control  systems  and
drives. The laboratory facilitates for faculty and students to conduct research in the areas
power converters and AC/DC micro-grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-art
test  and  measurement  instruments,  converters,  power  supplies  and  programming
boards. Major equipment available in this lab are:
1.  High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000.
2.  DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B).
3.  Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B.
4.  Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32,
5.  Three phase inverter drive.
6.  Three phase inverter stacks.
7.  DC-DC converters.
8.  Differential currents Probes.
9.  Current clamps.
10.  Isolation Transformers.
11.  FPGA training kits and programming boards.
6. Robotics Laboratory
IIT  Jodhpur  has  an  advanced  robotics  laboratory  for  PG/UG  education  and
research. The infrastructure includes the following:
1.  Vicon Motion Tracking System
2.  Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret WAM
ARM mounted on a PowerBot Mobile robot
3.  Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units
5.  Wheel Chair
6.  Force Plate
Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation,
8.  Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution, Inverse Kinematics of
Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing, and
9.  GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
The  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering  has  the  following  laboratories  for
Department of Mechanical Engineering
teaching and research purposes.
1. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
In the Advance Manufacturing Laboratory, CAD model of object is prepared using
3D modelling software like ProE, SolidWorks, and Catia. FE analysis is carried out using
Analysis  software  like  Ansys,  Nastran/Patran  and  precision  manufacturing  is  carried
out  using  CNC  programing/CNC  machines  and  Rapid  Prototyping  Machine/  3D
Printer.  The  manufactured  components  are  characterised  for  mechanical  behaviour
using UTM, Hardness testers, Impact testers etc. The role of CNC machines in increasing
flexibility and precision of the product to be manufactured and, increasing productivity
are  illustrated.  The  Advance  Manufacturing  Laboratory  of  institute  is  equipped  with
1.  CAD Section
2.  Precision Machining Section
3.  Rapid Prototyping Section
4.  Mechanical Behaviour Characterisation section
2. Central Workshop
Central  workshop  is  the  central  facility  of  Institute,  consisting  of  various
workshops  such  as  Welding  shop,  Carpentry  shop,  Fitting  shop,  Sheet  metal  shop,
Foundry  and  Heat  treatment  shop  and  Machine  shop.  Undergraduate  Students  get
hands on experience in above sections by doing the job work and carrying out projects
as part of their coursework and also students utilize the facilities for fabrication purpose
of their academic projects. It also supports the R&D projects of the institute handled by
various  Faculty  Members  and  Ph.D.  and  M.Tech.  Thesis  work  of  research  scholars  by
providing them assistance in fabrication of their research set-ups.
The following machines and equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1.  Welding fume extraction down draft table
2.  Multi process welding equipment
3.  Portable single phase MIG/MAG
4.  AC/DC welding equipment
5.  MIG/MAG welding equipment
6.  Treadle operated shearing Machine
7.  Hand operated Folding Machine
8.  Kaizen Muffle Furnace
9.  Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine
10.  Motorized Circle cutting Machine
11.  Hand operated Circle cutting Machine
12.  Hydraulic shearing Machine
13.  Portable Heating Plant
14.  Portable hardening plant
15.  Forging Heating Plant
16.  Aluminium Melting Plant
17.  Fitting Table
18.  Mould Making Facility
19.  Portable Tool Grinder
3. Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory
Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory is well equipped with various mechanisms
such  as  Motorized  Gyroscope  Apparatus,  Static  and  Dynamic  Balancing  Apparatus,
Universal  Governor  Apparatus,  Coriolis  Component  of  Acceleration  Apparatus,
Epicyclic Gear Train Apparatus, Cam Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal Vibration
Apparatus,  Stroboscope  and  Tachometer  10  in  helping  the  students  to  understand  the
behavior of the various mechanisms and forces acting on them.
In  addition,  the  laboratory  is  also  equipped  with  various  vibration  measuring
instruments  for  computing  the  vibration characteristics  of  a  machine  or structures  and
equipment  for  vibrating  the  machine  or  structures  in  order  to  finds  its  resonance
characteristics in various environmental conditions. Following equipment are available
for measuring and/or testing vibration characteristics of elements to structures.
4. Electro Mechanical (EM) Energy Conversion Laboratory
to  Electrical  Machines  properties  &
characteristics,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  established  “Electro  Mechanical  Energy  Conversion
Laboratory” and has continually been developing the potential of its lab facility. In this
lab,  state-of-the-art  “Electrical  Engineering”  facilitates  the  students  to  empower  their
potential by familiarizing themselves with the fundamental of electro-mechanical energy
conversion process, including several practical & industrial applications of machines in
true  applicable  environment.  This  lab  occupies  conventional  as  well  as  modern
equipment  to  fulfil  the  basic  and  modern  technological  requirements  with  continual
5. Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn about the following:
1.  Analyses and evaluation of experimental data
2.  Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data
3.  How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system
considering various technical aspects,  heat exchanger, thermal energy storage,
receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In  addition  to  the  above,  this  laboratory  aims  at  generating  innovative  ideas  in
students by promoting the design of experiments and small scale projects. At present in
the  fluid  mechanics  laboratory  are  conducted  experiments  on  losses  in  pipes
(smooth/rough)  and  fittings  (e.g.  valves,  bends),  comparison  between  different  flow
meters, particle image velocimetry technique, Hot-wire anemometer, labscale sub-sonic
wind tunnel for- pressure distribution around a cylinder/air-foil, lift and drag balance,
boundary  layer  development,  weather  monitoring.  Furthermore  the  lab  provides
training on standard software, such as, CFAST for fire simulation.
Currently  the  Heat  Transfer  Laboratory  is  equipped  with  the  demonstration  of
various thermometry techniques, heat exchange system, ventilation system, Natural and
forced  convection  system,  heat  conduction  unit  for  different  materials,  lab  and
industrial-scale  solar  water  heater  system,  and  thermal  radiation  unit.  All  these
equipment are installed with respective software.
For  testing,  calibration  and  research  purpose  in  these  laboratories,  various
equipment  such  as  Laser  Doppler  Velocimeter  with  Particle  Analyzer,  pressure  and
temperature  calibration,  blower  with  variable  flow,  pressure  transducers,  differential
pressure transducers, turbine test rig, turbo-machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc., have
Moreover,  multi-purpose  test  set  up  is  being  indigenously  designed  and  the
components  /  sub-systems  involved  are  being  fabricated  locally.  This  system  aims  at
investigation  and  evaluation  of  solar  thermal  sub-systems  such  as  volumetric  air
receiver,  thermal  energy  storage,  air-water  heat  exchange  systems  and  their
simultaneous operation. Devices such as earth air heat exchange system, wind catcher,
and  air-cooled  heat  exchange  systems  are  being  fabricated  and  tested  for  certain
6. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Six  laboratories  are  being  set-up  under  the  MNRE  funded  project  entitled  as
“Establishment of Center of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education at IIT
Jodhpur”.  High  Temperature  Solar  Thermal  Laboratory  is  one  of  these  specialized
laboratories. The aim of this laboratory is:
1.  Fundamental  aspects  of  fluid  flow  and  heat  transfer  related  problems,  like,  dust
2.  Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar thermal systems
Some  of  the  sub-systems  being  designed  and
analyzed in this laboratory are:
(a) Open  Volumetric  Air  Receiver  for  process
(b) Compact heat exchanger
(c)  Solar Convective Furnace
This laboratory includes test facility, such as,
Solar Air Tower Simulator (SATS) facility,
advanced research grade equipment like Laser
Doppler Velocimetry. SATS facility includes,
open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchanger and is
being extended with solar convective furnace.
7. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics Laboratory
The  material  testing  lab  of  the  institute  provides  facilities  to  test  samples  of
different  types  of  materials  to  find  out  their  mechanical  properties  like  modulus  of
elasticity,  tensile  and  compressive  strength,  stress  strain  curve,  bending  properties,
hardness etc. The lab is equipped with following test equipment:
1.  Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN
2.  Rockwell Tester
3.  Brinell Tester
4.  Vickers Tester
5.  Poldi Hardness Tester
6.  Portable hardness tester
8. Renewable Energy Laboratory
To  resolve  most  daunting  challenge  of
this  world—energy  needs—and  also  our
Renewable Energy Laboratory (REL) promotes
rigorous and objective empirical research at IIT
Jodhpur  on  issues  related  to  energy  and
focuses  on  designing,
testing,  and  disseminating  renewable  and
efficient energy system. The mission of REL is
to  help  these  technologies  to  realize  their  full
potential  to  contribute  to  environmentally
sustainable  development  in  industrial  and  developing  countries.  In  the  renewable
energy  field,  expert  faculty  and  students  at  this  Laboratory  are  currently  striving  to
create an innovative system to efficiently harness energy from sunlight and wind power.
REL has computer interfaced systems and approximately 30 students can work at a time.
Students  are  the  greatest  resource  of  REL  and  IIT  Jodhpur  has  made  substantial
commitment to the area of renewable energy and been providing all required resources
to execute a viable plan and innovative research at REL. One aspect of the evolution of
REL is the development of collaborative partnership with other academic and industrial
groups.  In  the  near  future,  it  will  be  a  hub  for  training  and  public-private  sector
collaboration. Recently, the lab has started a consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D
India Pvt. Ltd., on the prototyping of microbial fuel cells. In addition, the lab has started
work on data collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW
in  Rajasthan  and  Gujarat.  The  Renewable  Energy  Laboratory  uses  the  following
1.  Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent
magnets ~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc.
2.  PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell,
3.  Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with solar
altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid
inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4.  Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications.
9. Solar Radiation Laboratory
The  Ministry  of  New  and  Renewable  Energy  (MNRE)  has
selected the IIT Jodhpur campus site as one of their solar radiation
centers.  Solar  radiation  measurement
(Global  and  Direct),
Humidity,  Ambient  temperature,  Rain  gauge  and  wind  speed
measurement  are  carried  out  at  this  center  and  the  data  is
transmitted via a satellite link to the MNRE nodal center C-WET in
Chennai.  The  instruments  in  this  laboratory  are  powered  by  a
couple  of  solar  panels.  The  data  collected  from this  center  enables
the  solar  resource  assessment  required  for  the  setting  up  of  solar
thermal  and  solar  photovoltaic  power  plants  as  outlined  in  the
Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM).
Department of Physics
The  Department  of  Physics  has  the  following  laboratories  for  teaching  and
1. Biomolecular Information Processing laboratory
This  laboratory  is  involved  in  the  understanding  of  information  processing  by
various kinds of biomolecules and related synthetic molecules. The process involves in
using  a  single  molecule  first  and  then  a  group  of  molecule  on  a  given  interface.  The
interaction among the molecules in a given external stimuli will help us understanding
the communication among them.
2. Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS/SQUID)
IIT  Jodhpur  has  created  an  excellent  facility
in  the  field  of  material
characterization.  Recently  an  additional  dimension  has  been  added  to  it  by  procuring
magnetic property measurement system (MPMS). MPMS (SQUID) is getting installed in
coming few months. This will provide a wide temperature 2 K – 1000 K range for both
DC  and  AC  magnetic  measurements  in  conjunction  with  field  dependent  magnetic
measurements.  Such  measurements  will  help  to  understand  magnetic  properties  and
associated spin dynamics in magnetic materials.
3. Materials Analysis Laboratory
The  research  focuses  on  the  development  of  novel  materials  for  different
applications  including  materials  for  energy  generation  and  storage.  The  current  work
includes  the  development  of  solution  processable  CIGS  compound  semiconductor
materials  for  solar  cell  applications  and  transition  metal  oxide  based  materials  for
lithium  ion  batteries  and  supercapacitor  applications.  The  laboratory  is  equipped  with
synthesis of bulk and thin films techniques such as sputtering, sol-gel process assembly
etc.,  and  numerous  characterization  techniques  such  as  X-ray  diffraction,  Scanning
electron microscope, Optical spectroscopic techniques, LCR meter, ferroic measurement
system for bulk samples etc.
In  addition,  the  group  is  also  focusing  on  the  development  of  multifunctional
materials for different applications such as solar selective coatings, ferroic materials for
high frequency absorbing system, and magnetic particles for different applications. The
laboratory  is  equipped  with  state-of-the-art  facilities  to  carry  out  thermal  analysis,
electrochemical  analysis,  surface  morphology  studies,  separation  techniques  for
chemicals, electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove box etc.
4. Physics Laboratory
The mission of the Physics laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is to provide students with
experiential  knowledge  in  basic  physics.  This  laboratory  has  state-of-the-art  facilities
including  specific  equipment  and  is  currently  offering  different  experiments  in
Mechanics,  Waves,  Electricity,  Magnetism,  and  Optics.  Now  the  lab  has  facilities  for
experimenting with Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, and Michelson Interferometer.
Primary Health Center
IIT  Jodhpur  provides  round  the  clock  health  care  facilities  to  Students,  Faculty
and  Staff  Members  of  the  Institute,  at  its  Permanent  Campus.  This  fully equipped  and
self-sufficient facility is run by M/s. Goyal Hospital & Research Center Private Limited,
Jodhpur. Presently, the following facilities available at the Primary Health Center (PHC).
1.  Qualified Medical Doctors,
2.  Regular Visits of Specialist Doctors,
3.  Paramedical Staff,
4.  Physiotherapy Unit,
6.  24 Hours Emergency Room, and
7.  an ICU Ambulance.
Besides  this  fully  functional,  round-the-clock,  ISO  Certified,  Primary  Health
Center (PHC) in the campus, IIT Jodhpur is fortunate to have in the city an all new state-
of-the-art  All  India  Institute  of  Medical  Sciences,  the  associated  Hospitals  of  the  S.  N.
Medical College and some specialized hospitals. The Institute has agreements with a few
prominent hospitals for priority treatment to its employees and students. These include:
Goyal  Hospital  and  Research  Center,  Medi  Pulse  Hospital,  and  Vasan  Eye  Care
The  Health  Center  coordinates  and  supervises  the  treatment  of  students,
employees,  and  their  dependents  during  hospitalization  in  other  hospitals  that  are
empaneled  by  the  Institute,  to  provide  in-patient  care.  On  request,  the  Health  Center
extends  its  health  care  services  to  Institute  visitors  during  their  stay  in  the  residential
campus. Under emergency circumstances medical services are also extended to the non-
IIT Jodhpur community residents in the residential campus. Details like patient records,
medicine  procurement/disbursement,  assets,  equipment  of  Health  Center  are  all
Sports  and  games  facilities  to  students  are  provided  on  campus.  Facilities  for
playing  Basket  Ball,  Volley  Ball,  Cricket,  Lawn  Tennis  and  Table  Tennis  have  been
developed. Jogging and running track is available. There is a modest badminton facility
in  every  hostel.  Development  of  facilities  for  few  more  sports  are  underway.  Students
also enjoy a gymnasium facility at the residential campus.
Lawn Tennis Court in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur
Basket Ball Court in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur
An SC/ST Cell for ensuring the proper utilization and adaptation of reservation
policies and guidelines issued by the Government of India, is functional at IIT Jodhpur.
The  Cell  deals  with  matters  related  to  grievances  received  from  SC/ST  and  OBC
employees  and  students  in  the  Institute.  The  Cell  acts  as  a  communicator  between  the
Institute  and  the  Ministry  of  Human  Research  and  Development  in  matters  related  to
SC/ST and OBC students and employees in the Institute.  IIT Jodhpur has adopted the
reservation  policy  while  selecting  the  students  for  MCM  scholarship.  In  addition,
a substantial number of SC students whose total family income is limited to Rs. 6 lakhs
per annum, are deriving the benefit of Central Sector Scholarship of Top Class Education
available from the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.
The  Women  Cell,  IIT  Jodhpur,  functions  in  accordance  with  the  provisions
contained  in  Sexual  Harassment  of  Women  at Workplace  (Prevention,  Prohibition  and
Redressal)  Act,  2013.  The  following  are  some  activities  organized  by  the  Women  Cell
during FY 2017-18.
Celebration of 2018 International Women’s Day
The  2018  International  Women’s  Day  was  celebrated  at  the  Indian  Institute  of
Technology Jodhpur on 16 March 2018. The program was organized by the Women Cell,
IIT  Jodhpur.  The  program  started  at  6  pm.  Kshema  Prakash,  Convener,  Women  Cell,  IIT
Jodhpur,  introduced  the  program  to  the  guest  gathering  and  shared  that  continuing  the
initiative  of  organizing  Spring  Activities  in  the  Institute,  the  Women  Cell  of  IIT  Jodhpur
organized  an  Extempore  Speech  Contest  and  a  Quiz  Competition  their  Students  and
Employees,  ahead  of  time.  During  this  program,  Prizes  and  Certificates  of  Appreciation
were given away to the winners and participants.
Sanjana Malhotra, Zilla Swacch Bharat Prerak, Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation,
Jodhpur  District,  graced  the  occasion  as  the  Chief  Guest  and  delivered  key  note  address.
She  shared  her  experience  as  Zilla  Swacch  Bharat  Prerak  and  how  to  work  towards
alleviation of difficulties that women face, particularly, in rural areas where sanitation is a
Thereafter, Professor Madhu Dixit, Professor In-charge, Department of Bioscience &
Bioengineering,  IIT  Jodhpur,  shared  her  views  about  the  event  and  highlighted  the
contribution of Indian women across the world. She then presented a memento to Sanjana
Malhotra.  In  closing  Professor  Kirankumar  Hiremath,  Member,  Women  Cell,  IIT  Jodhpur,
proposed a vote of thanks.
2018 International Women’s Day Celebration: Sanjana Malhotra, Zilla
Swacchh Bharat Prerak, Jodhpur giving away prizes and certificates
to the participants of Spring 2018 Competitions
2018 International Women’s Day Celebration: Sanjana Malhotra, Zilla
Swacchh Bharat Prerak, Jodhpur, delivering keynote address
Students  Gymkhana  is  the  organized  system  of  self-governance  of  the  activities  of  the
Student Body at the Institute level. The Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur is established to:
(1)  Uphold  the  spirit  of  cooperation,  fraternity  and  social  bonding  among  all  Students  of  the
(2)  Provide  a  platform  for  organizing  themselves,  undertake  self-governance,  and  organize
creative activities for the all-rounded mental, physical, social and cultural growth of students.
Similarly, the student activities at the hostel level are organised through Students Regatta.
The  Students  of  the  Institute  associate  and  establish  the  Constitution  of  the  Students
Gymkhana in keeping with the tenets of the Gymkhana, and agree to abide by it in all walks of life
during  their  student  life.  The  Students  Gymkhana  hosts  its  activities  through  seven  Student
Societies, and in turn, each Society comprises of several clubs. A Society is a thematic community
of students, furthering the cause of the theme among the students. These societies fulfil the varied
interests of the students and contribute to their holistic development.
These seven societies are:
(1)  Sports & Games Society,
(2)  Cultural & Literary Society,
(3)  Design & Arts Society,
(4)  Science & Technology Society,
(5)  Academics & Careers Society,
(6)  Campus Life Society, and
(7)  Elected Representatives Society.
Under the overall leadership of the General Secretary, Students Gymkhana, and with the
overall  guidance  of  Associate  Dean  (Students),  these  societies  are  run  by  students  with  help  of
Student Secretaries and Faculty Advisors for each society.
(1) Sports & Games Society
Sports  &  Games  produce  remarkable  athletes,  and  can  nurture  humble  human  beings,
who have internalised:
(1) The grace of learning to face victory with humility and defeat with grace; and
(2) The force multiplier effect of teamwork.
The  Sports  &  Games  Society  has  been  formed  with  an  intent  to  promote  this  spirit,  by
providing to the campus community facilities for sports & games. This Society aims to inculcate
this as essential part of every student’s life. This society deals with all the sports (formal physical
activities  carried  out  under  an  agreed  set  of  formal  rules  with  the  intent  of  competition,  self-
enjoyment or a combination of these intents) and games (informal physical activities carried out
under a mutually agreed set of informal rules with the intent of recreation) at the Institute level. It
is headed by the Student Secretary (Sports & Games Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Sports and Games; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Sports & Games Society) of all the Hostels.
The  Sports  &  Games  Society  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Students  Gymkhana  formally  adopts  all
Student Sports & Games, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT Students Sports Meet. These
sports  include  Aquatics,  Athletics,  Badminton,  Basketball,  Bridge,  Chess,  Cricket,  Football,
Gymnastics, Hockey, Kabaddi, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Table Tennis, Volleyball and Weightlifting.
(2) Culture & Literary Society
Student Culture & Literary activities produce remarkable citizens of the country, and can
nurture knowledgeable and skilled human beings, who have internalised:
(1) The diverse cultures of India with equal respect for all; and
(2) The richness of traditional & modern literature of India with desire to share with others.
With this intent of promoting this spirit, Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur provides to
the campus community facilities for culture & literary activities. The Student Culture & Literary
Society of IIT Jodhpur aims to inculcate this as essential part of every student's life.
This society deals with all the cultural and literary activities at the Institute level. It is headed by
the Student Secretary (Cultural & Literary Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Cultural and Literary activities; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Cultural & Literary Society) of all the Hostels.
The  Cultural &  Literary Society  of  IIT Jodhpur  Students  Gymkhana formally  adopts  all
Student Culture & Literary activities, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT level and other
national  level  Students  Culture  &  Literary  Festivals.  These  include  Student  Music  Activities,
Student  Dance  Activities,  Student  Drama  Activities,  Student  Film  Activities,  Student  Literature
Activities, Student Quiz Activities, Student Book Activities and Student Newsletter Activities as a
(3) Design & Arts Society
Design & Arts activities produce skilful citizens of the country, and can nurture artistic
and skilled human beings, who have internalised:
(1) The diverse creative arts & crafts of India with equal respect for all; and
(2) The richness of traditional & modern designs of India with desire to share with others.
With this intent of promoting this spirit, Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur provides to
the  campus  community  facilities  for  culture  &  literary  activities.  The  Student  Design  &  Arts
Society of IIT Jodhpur aims to inculcate this as essential part of every student's life.
This society deals with all the design and arts activities at the Institute level. It  is headed by the
Student Secretary (Design & Arts Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Teams of the various design and arts activities; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Design & Arts Society) of all the Hostels.
The  Design  &  Arts  Society  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Students  Gymkhana  formally  adopts  all
Student  design  and  arts  activities,  which  are  included  in  the  annual  Inter-IIT  level  and  other
national  level  Students  Design  &  Arts  Festivals.  These  include  Student  Animation  Activities,
Student  Design  Activities,  Student  Fine  Arts  Activities,  Student  FM  Radio  Activities,  Student
Photography, Student Media, and Student Cinematography as a Club each.
(4) Science & Technology Society
Science & Technology activities produce skilful citizens of the country, and can nurture
artistic and skilled human beings, who have internalised:
(1) The intriguing magic of science and importance of basic, applied and targeted research; and
(2) The challenges of undertaking technology development for the good of the nation.
Students  Gymkhana  of  IIT  Jodhpur  intends  to  promote  this  inquisitiveness  towards
science  and  technology,  by  providing  to  the  campus  community  facilities  for  Science  &
Technology activities. The Student Science & Technology Society of IIT Jodhpur aims to inculcate
this as essential training of every student at the Institute.
This society deals with all the science and technology activities at the Institute level. It is
headed by the Student Secretary (Science & Technology Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Teams of the various Science and Technology activities; and
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Science & Technology Society) of all the Hostels.
The Science & Technology Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all
Student  Science  &  Technology  activities,  which  are  included  in  the  annual  Inter-IIT  level  and
other national level Students Science & Technology Festivals. These include Student Automobile
Activities,  Student  Robotics  Activities,  Student  Astronomy  Activities,  Student  Aeromodeling
Activities,  Student  Science  Activities,  Student  Electronics  Activities  and  Student  Computer
Programming Activities as a Club each.
(5) Academics & Careers Society
Academics & Careers are two basic premises of presence of student at the Institute. Each
student is expected to internalise:
(1)  A  basic  competence  (knowledge,  skill  and  attitude)  in  the  discipline  of  the  Program
registered for; and
(2)  Clarity  on  distinction  between  jobs  and  careers,  and  prepare  for  a  planned  career  in  the
discipline chosen for the study.
Students Gymkhana of IIT Jodhpur wishes to provide a platform to students to represent
their desires, difficulties and concerns during the process of education, by providing a mechanism
of  representation  through  the  Academics  &  Careers  Society.  The  Student  Academics  &  Careers
Society  of  IIT  Jodhpur  aims  to  actively  contribute  to  providing  inputs  on  academic  programs,
curricula, teaching and infrastructure through the Office of Academics of the Institute.
This  society  deals  with  all  the  student  academics  and  careers  related  activities  at  the
Institute  level.  It  is  headed  by  the  Student  Secretary  (Academics  &  Careers  Society),  and  its
membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Clubs of the various student Academics and Careers related activities;
(ii) Hostel Secretary (Academics & Careers Society) of all the Hostels.
The Academics & Careers Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all
Student Academics & Careers activities, which are included in the annual Inter-IIT level and other
national  level  Students  Academics  &  Careers  Events.  These  include  Student  Career  Planning
Activities,  Student  Communications  Development  Activities,  Student  Entrepreneurship  Skills
Development Activities and Student Personality Development Activities as a Club each.
(6) Campus Life Society
Campus Fraternity of students needs to build the personal side of students of life, beyond
the  purpose  of  building  academic  side  of  life  at  the  Institute.  Each  student  is  expected  to
internalise issues associated with:
(1) The basic needs of shelter and food; and
(2) The safety, health and hygiene.
To provide a platform to students to get real-life experiences and to improve quality of
holistic  life  of  students  on  campus,  the  Campus  Life  Society  was  formed.  Also,  Students
Gymkhana  and  Students  Regatta  of  IIT  Jodhpur  actively  help  in  providing  the  needed
interactions and experiences to be able to make considered decision to choose and prepare for a
career after graduating from the Institute. The Student Campus Life Society actively works with
the Office of Students of the Institute.
This society deals with all the student campus life related activities at the Institute level. It
is headed by the Student Secretary (Campus Life Society), and its membership consists of:
(i)  Captains of all Institute Clubs of the various student Campus Life related activities;
(ii)  Hostel Secretaries (Campus Life Society) of all the Hostels;
(iii) Faculty Member Mentors;
(iv) Staff Member Mentors; and
(v)  Senior Student Mentors.
The Campus Life Society of IIT Jodhpur Students Gymkhana formally adopts all Student
Campus  Fraternity  activities  at  the  Institute,  including  Student  Legacy  Activities,  Student  City
Tourist  Services,  Student  Dining  Services,  Student  Informal  Events,  Student  Picnics  and  Social
Service Activities as a Club each.
(7) Elected Representatives Society
Student Elected Representatives form a critical interface of students with the Institute, to
better the situation on all fronts related to study & living on the campus, and to learn & practice
the  constitutional  way  of  conducting  oneself  in  &  as  a  community  of  students.  The  Student
Elected Representatives Society actively works with the Dean (Students).
This society deals with all the student matters specific to each group (program-wise and
year-wise)  at  the  Institute  level.  Student  Elections  and  Student  Conduct  activities  are  the  major
activities of the Student Elected Representatives Society. It is headed by the Student Secretary of
the  Student  Elected  Representatives  Society  (SERS),  and  its  membership  consists  of  all  Student
Elected Representatives elected from each group of students.
Student Fests & Events
The Students Gymkhana of the Institute organizes events with dual purpose. On the one
hand, these events help engage students in creative work during their leisure hours and thereby
build  skills  and  interests  in  them.  And,  on  the  other  side,  these  events  help  students  to  self-
organise themselves and provide platforms for others to excel.
Besides  celebrating  the  Gymkhana  Day,  the  events  organized  by  the  Students
Gymkhana can be seen in two streams, namely:
1. Inter-Institute Festivals and Tournaments; and
2. Intra-Institute Festivals and Championships.
Like  every  year,  during  FY  2017-18  too,  the  students  were  successful  in  nurturing  a
culture filled with energy and initiative. They have organized events which served as a medium
of  communication  and  bonding  amongst  themselves.  Major  festivals  like  Ganesh  Chaturthi,
Diwali,  Sankranti,  Eid  and  Holi  were  celebrated  with  great  enthusiasm. Sports  activities  were
also  regularly  conducted  to  encourage  sportsmanship,  which  were  supported  by  the  Faculty
During  the  Financial  Year  2017-18,  students  of  the  Institute  received  their  share  of
(1)  Four students of III Year B.Tech. (CSE) Program (Saksham Banga, Nikhil Srivastava, Satya
Bhavsar  and  Aniket  Parate)  were  selected  to  participate  in  the  Student  Startup  Exposure
Program  at  Silicon  Valley,  USA,  sponsored  by  Department  of  IT&C,  Government  of
(2)  Two  students  of  III  Year  B.Tech.  (CSE)  Program  (Saksham  Banga  and  Nikhil  Srivastava)
showcased a project Dubberwala at Microsoft Academia Accelerator Program (AXLE 2018)
at Hyderabad in May 2018. This project personalizes video streaming experience, for lecture
videos, on laptop.
(3)  To  present  their  research  work,  students  received  International  Travel  Grant  from  various
agencies to attend conferences:
(a)  Pratibha Choudhary, Ph.D. Student of Department of Computer Science & Engineering,
from:  (i)  University  of  Began  for  participating  in  Recent  Advances  in  Parameterized
Complexity (RAPC) at Tel Aviv, Israel, in December 2017; and (ii) Science & Engineering
Research  Board,  Government  of  India,  for  participating  in  Latin  American  Theoretical
Informatics Symposium, Buenos Aires, Argentina, in April 2018.
(b)  Ravi  Sharma,  Ph.D.  Student  of  Department  of  Computer  Science  &  Engineering,  from
Microsoft  Research  India  for  participating  in  The  International  Conference  on
Information Processing in Sensor Networks (IPSN) in Porto, Portugal during April 2018.
(4) Gaurav Bahuguna, Ph.D. Student from Department of Chemistry received Best Poster Prize
from  American  Chemical  Society,  USA,  for  his  research  work  at  the  International
Conference  on  Nano  Science  and  Technology  (ICONSAT  2018)  held  during  21-23  March
2018 at IISc, Bengaluru.
(5)  Students  of  the  Student  Science  &  Technology  Society,  Students  Gymkhana,  qualified  for
ACM-ICPC  International  Collegiate  Programming  Contest,  the  annual  multi-tiered
competitive programming competition of over 3,000 India teams at the Onsite Rounds: (a)
Angad Singh Sabherwal, Pranav Arora, Shreyansh Chhajer stood 29th in Chennai in 2017,
and  (b)  Archil  Kumar  Srivastava,  Shubham  Jain,  and  Vijay  Kumar  Paliwal  stood  47th  in
Gwalior in 2018.
(6)  Ujjwala  Anantheswaran,  a  Member  of  the  Student  Academics  &  Career  Society,  Students
Gymkhana,  secured  1st  Position  in  Online  English  Creative  Writing  and  2nd  Position  in
Word Games, a team event at the at 2nd Inter-IIT Cultural Meet at Kanpur. She is the first
student from IIT Jodhpur to claim two awards at the events.
Student Counseling Service
The Student Counseling Service is an integral part of IIT Jodhpur since 2008. Every year, it
strives  to  ensure  that  every  student  gets  to  know  the  Institute  in  intricate  details  and  to  help
absorb  all  that  the  opportunities  that  the  Institute  creates.  It  works  towards  making  the
transition of new Students from their homes to the Institute a memorable one. The objective of
Student  Counseling  Service  is  to  provide  friendly  support  to  the  new  Students  for  their  well-
being during their stay on the campus and for their personal & professional developments. In
essence,  the  Student  Counseling  Service  promotes  the  development  of  students  along  three
(1)  Academic: It provides information about different academic programs of the Institute, and
suggests efficient time management and study skills,
(2)  Extra-Curricular: It strives to develop talents in students, and encourages them to discover
their  extra-curricular  interests/hobbies.  Also,  it  provides  an  interface  with  the  Institute
activities, and provides a platform for interaction with the Institute; and
(3)  Personal:  It  provides  a  cushion  against  homesickness,  and  assists  in  adjusting  to  the  new
environment (including concerns and difficulties arising during their stay at the Institute) by
providing  personalised  guidance.  Also,  it  provides  psycho-education  and  confidential
referral services to students.
The Student Counseling Service is headed by a Faculty Member, as the Chairperson of the
Student  Counseling  Service  Committee,  and  ably  supported  by  Faculty  Members,  Staff
Members  and  senior  students.  A  full-time  Student  Counselor  plays  the  role  of  growth  coach,
well-being  moderator  and  psychological  counselor.  Besides,  the  Student  Counseling  Service
(1)  Maintain a ragging-free campus;
(2)  Organize Orientation Program for new students to acquaint them with the Institute;
(3)  Organize lectures and trainings on: (a) Career counseling, (b) Stress management, (c) Time
management,  (d)  Health  care  and  hygiene,  (e)  Vocational  training,  (f)  Relationships,  (g)
Cope with homesickness, (h) Addiction and others, and (i) motivational lectures by eminent
(4)  Address  academic  issues  of  students,  e.g.,  poor  academic  performance,  basic  IT  skills  and
language skills of students from non-English background; and
(5)  Organize  events  for  encouraging  interaction  among  students  of  different  years,  and  Staff
and Faculty Members.
Campus Mentorship Program
Especially for the new Students, the Institute has launched a Campus Mentors Program
in  2014, wherein  Faculty  Members,  Staff  Members  and  senior  Students work  towards  helping
each new student towards:
(a) Adjusting well in hostel life away from home and in his academic life, and
(b) Keeping in touch with the student and his/her family members/guardians.
These  on-campus  friends  and  guides  support  and  motivate  new  students  in  their
personal  life  and  academic  life.  Also,  through  this  association,  Faculty  Members  get  insider’s
perspectives in the lives of students. This interaction will help both the teacher and the taught,
to grow together as one community. Further, the Campus Mentors Program ensures that even
parents of students get opportunities to interact with the Institute.
Student Placement Cell
The Office of Student Placements (OSP) is moving ahead in developing Student Career
Development  Centre  which  aims  to  create  an  encouraging  atmosphere  for  students  by
providing  them  ample  reminders  to  build  competencies  in  sync  with  their  dream
careers,  thereby  ensuring  their  smooth  landing  into  the  professional  world.  The  Office
performs duties related with creating awareness about career planning, soft skills enhancement
along with coordinating with various companies, their interaction with the students, arranging
pre-placement talks, tests, and interviews and activities related with placements.
In 2017-18, companies in core engineering, information and communication technology,
and  banking  sector,  government  and  public  sector  organizations  have  visited  IIT  Jodhpur  for
Total  91  of  our  students  i.e.,  79  B.Tech.  Students  and  12  M.Tech.  Students,  have  been
placed with different companies in the year 2017-18.
Details of companies and placements are as below.
Number of Students Selected per Branch
B.Tech. Placements for the year 2017 – 2018
Total Number of
Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)
3.  Morgan Stanley
Tata Consultancy Services
18.  Wisig Network
21.  Matrix Comsec
TCS Innovation Labs
30.  Oyo Rooms
M.Tech. Placements for the year 2017 – 2018
MIC Engineering College
The Office of Alumni Relations of the Institute works for the alumni of the Institute, no
matter  where  the  alumni  live.  The  Office  is  a  canvas  of  collective  experiences  and  shared
memories. We urge the Alumni to share with us your stories of both struggle and success.
As  brand  ambassadors  of  the  Institute  and  torch  bearers  of  change,  this  special  bond
between the Alumni and the Institute should be the catalyst for valuable exchange between
the Institute and the big-wide world.
The  Office  of  Alumni  Relations  is  managed  by  the  Alumni  Relations  Committee,
comprising  of  Chairman,  Secretary,  Members  and  Student  Volunteers.  All  students
completing  any  specific  degree  program  at  IIT  Jodhpur  become  Life  Members  with  the
Office of Alumni Relations and no fee is associated with the membership.
the  Alumni  Relations  Committee  engaged
in  strengthening  the
relationship  between  the  Institute  and  its  Alumni  by  having  a  sound  Alumni  Database  in
place.  Efforts  are  being  made  to  establish  a  continuous  flow  of  communication  with  the
Alumni by way of an e-Newsletter.
IIT  Jodhpur  has,  as  on  31  March  2018,  a  total  of  818  students  registered  in  various
programs offered by the Institute. The table and chart below depict the program-wise break-
up of the registered students in the Institute.
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
Following  are  lists  of  students  registered  in  various  programs  offered  by  the
Institute, detailed according to the programs offered by various Departments.
Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit
Vikas Pratap Singh
Vikash Chandra Janu
Ravi Raj Choudhary
Aditya Raw Gautam
Goutam Kumar Gupta
Om Prakash Mahela
Raj Kumar Satankar
Satendra Pal Singh
Anuj Kumar Bharti
Arun Kumar Upadhyay
Rakhi N. K.
Ajay Kumar Mahato
Center / Department
Ram Niwas Verma
Brajesh Kumar Shukla
Erum Gul Naz
Phadatare Hanmant Pandurang
Javid Ahmad Naikoo
Vijendra Singh Bhati
Arka Ujjal Dey
Tushar Shankar Shinde
Gajendra Singh Chawda
Aniket Dilip Monde
Vibhuti Bhushan Pandey
Urgunde Ajay Bhimashankar
Amit Kumar Gangwar
Vishwa Deepak Kumar
Waris Nawaz Khan
Ram Milan Sahani
Naveen Kumar Mangal
Amit Kumar Shringi
Idury Satya Krishna
Akhil Kumar Singh
Mudhangulla Sridhar Babu
Post Graduate Students
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2016
Arimardan Singh Chauhan
Shyam Sundar Maurya
Pratik V Paliwal
Vikas Kumar Upadhyay
Mohammmad Ashhar Tufail
Manish Kumar Jaiswal
Sumer Chand Saini
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2017
S.No.  Roll No.
18.    M17ME006  Deepak Dandotiya
Animesh Kumar Singh
Joykumar Bakulbhai Kanabar
20.    M17ME008  Dhrumil Hemantkumar Soni
22.    M17ME010  Manvendra Kumar
23.    M17ME011  Mayank
Vijay Kumar Sharma
M.Sc. Students, Batch 2016
Akshay Kumar R
Vinod Singh Adhikary
Sagar Satish Jha
Kshitij Kumar Pandey
M.Sc. Students, Batch 2017
S.No.  Roll No.
Hamid Palamadathil Kannattil
Babel Sejal Mahavir
Kapil Dev Gond
26.    M17MA009  Namita Jain
Pramod Kumar Swain
Vivek Kumar Sahu
Dusmant Kumar Naik
Rakesh Rosan Pradhan
B.Tech. Students, Batch 2014
Abhimanyu Singh Gaur
Archil Kumar Srivastava
B Sree Siddharth
Chaudhari Akshay Gajanan
Edula Hari Hara Reddy
Ganesh Bhimrao Patil
Gutapu Raj Kumar
Kommuru Vinay Kumar
Rinku Kumar Meena
Rohan Govind Saraf
Vijay Kumar Paliwal
Angad Singh Sabherwal
Dara Shanmukha Sai Sanjay Gupta
Jaiswal Ronak Nilesh
Jay Bhavin Sheth
Kaviti Sarath Kalyan
Naveen Kumar Chittoriya
Parmar Sunny Mukeshkumar
Shah Neelkumar Sureshkumar
Sudhir Pratap Yadav
Thara Giriraj Prasad
Vamsi Prudhvi Chintaguntala
Vanam Bhanu Sai Simha
Akshay Vinay Bapat
Bandi Sai Mukesh
Boghara Pruthvi Rameshbhai
Jerry Mathew Oommen
Kartik Venkata Ramachandruni
Katakam Harsha Sai Manohar
Parella Ravi Teja
Pothula Krishna Teja
Shinde Shubham Bhaskar
Udit Singh Parihar
Uma Shankar Sharma
B Sai Chaitanya
Devanshu Bhavin Kathrecha
K. Tejas Reddy
Vaibhav Baban Ganer
Dinesh Kumar Maurya
B.Tech. Students, Batch 2015
Anant Kumar Singh
Bagannagari Vinay Kumar Reddy
Bhamare Nikhil Daryavsing
Bhuma Ayyappa Sumanth
Indra Kumar Malav
Joukani Vinit Pradeep
Kansagara Bhargav Dineshbhai
Praveen Kumar T
Rishabh Arun Kanabar
Shukla Anugrah Harish Kumar
Swapnil Ganesh Athawale
Amitesh Kumar Jigyasu
Bhanwar Singh Choudhary
Braj Raj Nagar
Inderpreet Singh Chhabra
Karanveer Singh Thakur
Krunal Sanjay Chirmade
Lalit Kumar Bamanawat
Nilesh Kumar Tiwari
Shitendra Kumar Tyagi
Shreyas Malakarjun Patil
Vadde Keerthi Aishwarya
Aditya Raj Malviya
Chandrapratap Singh Raghuvanshi
Keshetty Sai Surya
Meka Lalit Sai Chandra Reddy
Nakka Sanket Gangadhar
Perisetla Srinivasa Deepak
Quadri Syed Mujtaba Syed Maqsood
Sunil Kumar Sakhnia
Vartha Divyesh Yashvant
Vineet Singh Chauhan
Vivek Kumar Singh
B.Tech. Students, Batch 2016
Ashutosh Kumar Jatav
Chetan Prakash Meena
Kuldeep Singh Jangir
Machabathuni Vijay Siddharth
Manvendra Singh Kushwah
Nagalgaonkar Vinay Ramkishan
Naramala Mourya Mithra
Nikunj Kumar Labana
Nirne Shivam Chandrakant
Parate Aniket Kishor
Patel Shreya Hasmukh
Qazi Sajid Azam
Sai Kishore Kesaram
Sairipally Sai Surya
Saksham Sanjay Banga
Adit Raj Gautam
Akhil Kumar Singh
Ayush Mukund Gupta
Hemendra Kumar Singh
Kasar Rajat Sanjay
Mukesh Kumar Das
Patil Rushabh Hemant
Pravendra S Khinchi
Rakshith Ramakanth Malapalli
Sourabh Kumar Meena
Yash Kumar Chouhan
Deependra Singh Bhati
Gulab Chand Meena
Jitendra Kumar Meena
Joshi Parth Jayeshbhai
Nale Ruturaj Shivaji
Shiv Kumar Mudgal
Subham Kant Das
Sudhir Kumar Kushwaha
Vinod Kumar Saini
Peela Subash Chandra Bose
B.Tech. Students, Batch 2017
S.No.  Roll No.
Abhinish Kumar Singh
Bandaru Santhu Ruthvik
Ch Bhanu Prakash
Chalodiya Hiren Nareshbhai
Fateh Singh Meena
Gangwar Anmol Reddy
Jay Bhaskar Kapadia
Kamal Kant Sharma
Karan Sanjay Modh
Mohammad Umair Anis
Rahul  Sudish  Bansode
Satya Prakash Sharma
Saurav Ramesh Malekar
Shreyas Sharad Mahajan
Shyam Kumar Gautam
Vinay Vijay Devadiga
Akash Kumar Singh
Anil Kumar Gurjar
Chaitany Prakash Mahawar
Chavan Pratik Sharad
Devesh Kumar Jangid
Ganesh Balasaheb Jadhav
Harshkooshal Kamlesh Gandhi
J. Sandeep Narayan
Kanani Alishkumar Hareshkumar
Pradeep Kumar Kushwaha
Sahil Harish Batra
Shah Nisarg Anish
Vaidya Swar Bhavarth
Abhijeet Abhay Sutar
Ajay Kumar Meena
Aman Sumit Goel
Anirudh Singh Tomar
Arif Muhammed V. S.
Ashish Sandesh Chavan
Chirag Raj Gajrani
Deepak Kumar Yadav
Dnyaneshwari Pandhari Sonone
Mogili Vamsi Kalyan
Pareekshit Singh Rawat
Raju Raj Kumar
Rohan Sunil Shisode
Shaunak Abhijit Mehta
Shubham Suresh Gattani
Siddhant Shrikant Saoji
Photo Credits: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad, Jodhpur District 342037