Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Come, join us in the sands of time …
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada
From Director’s Desk
Vision & Mission
Board of Governors
Building and Works Committee
Departments and Associated Faculty Members
Collaborations with Academia
Collaborations with Industry
R & D Projects
Celebration of National Festivals
Ground Breaking Ceremony at Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur
Strengthening IIT Jodhpur Community
Observance of Days of National Importance & Awareness Drives
Initiatives in Establishment and Administration
Student Placement Cell
Lists of Registered Students
From Director’s Desk…
The  Institute  is  in  its  formative  years.  Structural  changes  are
bound to occur in such a growing Institute. Its principal stakeholders
are  playing  the  key  role  of  steering  these  vital  transitions.  The
eventual  destination  is  to  build  an  Institute  that  helps  address  the
technology  grand  challenges  of  the  nation.  The  current  technology
tracks adopted by the Institute are: Arid Zone Technologies, Critical
Another special path the Institute has embarked on is towards strengthening its
relationship with leading Industries of the nation – Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Tata
Motors Limited, L&T Limited, Tata Power Limited, TVS Motor Company Limited, and
TCS  Limited.  IIT  Jodhpur  –  Industry  association  has  embarked  on  redefining  the
Technology Education model at the Bachelors level.
The year has been very active and resulted in significant discussions to better the
Institute through focused vision, structural changes, and streamlining of processes.
C. V. R. Murty
Vision & Mission
The  Institute  shall  promote  technology  thought  and  action,  and  prepare  needed
technical human resources to meet the technology challenges of the nation.
The Institute shall
(1)  Create a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research,
invention and eventually innovation; and
(2)  Prepare each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere
to the core values of the Institute:
(a)  Students:  Prepare  competent  Technology  Graduates  ready  to  meet  Grand
Challenges of India;
(b)  Staff  Members:  Train  active  functionaries  of  a  process  driven  professional
(c)  Faculty  Members:  Facilitate  builders  of  an
academic institute; and
(d)  Industries: Provide  technology  innovation  as  a force  to  as  many industries  as
possible for economic value creation
The Institute stands for a set of core values, wherein each member of the IIT Jodhpur
(1)  Uphold highest levels of human integrity and dignity;
(2)  Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute;
(3)  Work towards building the most admired technology Institute furthering interests of
Students, Industries and Society;
(4)  Commit  to  economic  development  of  India  through  technological  thought  and
(5)  Be ethical, sincere and open in all transactions; and
(6)  Be  continually  responsible  for  upholding  utmost  confidentiality  of  all  information
and circumstances arising out of any interaction.
Under  the  broad  umbrella  of  IIT  Council,  IIT  Jodhpur  functions  under  the
guidance of the following statutory bodies.
(1) Board of Governors;
(2) Finance Committee;
(3) Senate; and
(4) Buildings & Works Committee.
Member details of these Statutory Bodies are given in the pages to follow.
BOARD  OF  GOVERNORS
1.  Professor Goverdhan Mehta (FNA, FRS)
Department of Organic Chemistry
University of Hyderabad
Central University PO
2.  Director (Ex-officio)
Professor C. V. R. Murty
Old Residency Road, Ratanada,
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
1.  Professor Pankaj Chandra
Indian Institute of Management
2.  Professor N. S. Vyas
Chairman, Technology Mission for Indian Railways
Ministry of Railways
Government of India
New Delhi 110001
3.  Mr. Kiran Karnik
Former President, NASSCOM
S-315 Panchsheel Park
New Delhi 110017
4.  Mr. D. R. Mehta
Founder & Chief Patron
Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti
Main Malviya Nagar
State Government Nominee
1.  Principal Secretary
Higher & Technical Education
Main Building Secretariat
Government of Rajasthan
1.  Professor Goverdhan Mehta, FNA, FRS
Department of Organic Chemistry
University of Hyderabad
Central University PO
1.  Professor C. V. R. Murty
Old Residency Road, Ratanada
2.  Additional Secretary (Technical Education)
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development
Government of India
New Delhi 110001
3.  Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development
Government of India
New Delhi 110001
4.  Mr. G. S. Sood
CMD National Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation
Plot No. 15
Bhikaji Cama Place
New Delhi 110066
5.  CA S. S. Bhandari
Director, Non-Executive Director on the Board
Bank of Baroda
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme
6.  Dr. Gaurav Harit
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
C. V. R. Murty  Chairman
Pratap Bhanu Mehta  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
H. P. Khincha  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Sanjeev Misra  Member (Nominee of Board of Governors)
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Biology
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Physics
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Chairman, Wardens Committee
Chairman, Library Committee
Laboratory In-Charge, Workshop
BUILDINGS  AND  WORKS  COMMITTEE
1.  Professor C. V. R. Murty
Old Residency Road, Ratanada,
1.  Ms. Usha Kasana
Public Works Department
Government of Rajasthan
Jacob Road, Civil Lines
2.  Mr. R. K. Govil
Additional Director General Civil (Retd.), CPWD
26, Ankur Apartments
7, I.P. Extension
3.  Mr. V. K. Bansal
Chief Engineer Electrical (Retd.), CPWD
721 Sky Lark Apartment,
Sector-6, Plot No.35, Dwarka
New Delhi 110075
4.  Dr. B. Ravindra
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
The  Institute  has  organized  its  activities  through  various  key  functionaries,  as
depicted in the organogram below.
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow.
C. V. R. Murty
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani  Faculty
V. Narayanan  Research & Development
Atul Kumar  Academics
Hari Narayanan V.  Students
Rahul Chhibber  Laboratories
Rakesh Kumar Sharma  Automation
Satyajit Sahu  Library
Sushmita Jha  Biologically Inspired System Science (Focus Group)
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli  Centre for System Science (Focus Group)
Heads of the Departments
Venkata Ramana Badarla   Computer Science & Engineering
Anil K. Tiwari  Electrical Engineering
B. Ravindra  Mechanical Engineering
Sushmita Jha  Biology
Rakesh Kumar Sharma  Chemistry
Kirankumar R. Hiremath  Mathematics
Subhashish Banerjee  Physics
Vidya Sarveswaran  Humanities & Social Sciences
Chairman / Chairperson
Samanwita Pal  Council of Wardens
P. Manikandan  Student Placement Committee
Anil Kumar Tiwari  Medical Services Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli  Logistics Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli  Scholarships and Prizes Committee
Anand Krishnan Plappally  Alumni Relations Committee
Monika Sinha  Counselling Services Committee
Gaurav Harit  Chief Vigilance Officer
Rahul Chhibber  Transparency Officer
Puneet Sharma  Hindi Officer
Kirankumar R. Hiremath  Green Initiative Officer
Monika Sinha  Women Cell Officer
Amardeep Sharma  Public Relations Officer
Coordinator (Academics)  Chairman
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Biology
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Physics
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Convener (Focus Group Biologically Inspired System Science)
Convener (Focus Group System Science)
Liaison Officer (SC/ST Cell)
Secretary, ARA Society, Students Gymkhana
Three Student Representatives from ARA Society, Students Gymkhana
(one each from B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. Programs)
This page is intentionally left blank.
Departments and Associated Faculty Members
The Institute has organised its academic activities to be conducted through eight
Departments, and two Focus Groups. They are:
1.  Computer Science & Engineering,
2.  Electrical Engineering,
3.  Mechanical Engineering,
7.  Physics, and
8.  Humanities & Social Sciences.
II.  Focus Groups:
1.  Biologically Inspired System Science, and
2.  System Science.
Details of Departments and associated Faculty Members are given in the pages to
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING
The  Department  offers  B.Tech.  (Computer  Science  &  Engineering)  and  Ph.D.
Program  with  specialisation  in  Computer  Science  &  Engineering.  It  has  some  state-of-
the-art laboratory and research facilities.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Wireless Networks, and Cloud Computing
Venkata Ramana Badarla
Head of Department
Algorithms & Complexity
Image and Video Analysis
The  department  also  has  an  Adjunct  Faculty  Member,  Professor  Venkatesh
Raman from Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai.
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
The  Department  offers  B.Tech.  (Electrical  Engineering),  M.Tech.  (Electrical
Engineering)  and  Ph.D.  Program  with  specialisation  in  Electrical  Engineering.  It  has
some state-of-the-art laboratory and research facilities.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Electrical Engineering: Image Processing, Video Processing, and Signal
Processing application in Bio-Medical
Anil Kumar Tiwari
Head of Department
Abdul Gafoor Shaik
Arun Kumar Singh
Protection of various components of Power System, Protection of
Distribution Network with DG penetration, Power Quality assessment
and mitigation in Distribution Networks with Renewable Energy Source
Communication Theory, Wireless and Mobile Communications, Satellite
based Navigation Systems, Spread Spectrum Systems
Control and state estimation of uncertain systems, Power system,
Control issues in wind energy conversion system
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Power Electronics and Drives
Group III-V quantum structures by MBE, Growth of thin films and
nanostructures, Group III-nitride alloys for LEDs, HEMTs and photovoltaic
applications, Inorganic-Inorganic hybrid structures with special attention
to band gap engineering, Si and wide band gap semiconductors for
MEMS, Micro and Nano device fabrications
Signal  Processing,  Condition  Monitoring,
Compression, Blind Source Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Image  Processing,  Data
Microelectronics  &  VLSI  Technology,  Microfabrication,  Organic
Electronics, Device Physics and Characterization, New Device Structures
Nanophotonic  /  Optoelectronic  Devices,  Semiconductor  device  physics,
III-V semiconductors, Plasmonics
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Shree Prakash Tiwari
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor R. K. Shyama Sunder,
who  is  a  Senior  Professor  and  J.  C.  Bose  National  Fellow  at  Tata  Institute  of
Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
Kota  V.  Murali,  Chief  Technologist,  Semiconductor  Research  and  Development
Center,  IBM  India,  Bangalore  is  associated  with  the  department  as  an  Adjunct  Faculty
DEPARTMENT OF  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
The desire to contribute to national and global causes such as the  solar mission
and  climate  change  is  at  the  heart  of  the  academic  activities  carried  out  within  the
Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering.  Several  application  domains  of  interest  in
Mechanical  Engineering  (such  as  solar  energy,  automotive  technologies  and  health)
motivate Students, Staff Members and Faculty Members.
The  B.Tech.  Program  in  Mechanical  Engineering  commenced  in  2008,  since  the
inception  of  the  Institute.  Since  then  three  batches  have  graduated  and  most  of  the
Alumni  are  pursuing  successful  careers  in  the  industry.  Some  of  them  have  chosen  to
pursue higher studies in India, Europe and the United States of America.
During the last six years, several collaborative projects have been initiated with a
number  of  industries  and  research  laboratories  across  India  (such  as  Thermax,
Sunborne, Areva, STEAG, BHEL, IOCL, ONGC, BARC, and NFTDC) to pursue research
and development in the area of mechanical engineering.
To respond to the diverse needs of students, broad based Bachelors and Masters
Programs  in  Mechanical  Engineering  are  being  designed,  with  scope  to  let  students
specialize  in  interdisciplinary  as  well  as  sub-domains  of  Mechanical  Engineering.  A
Doctoral  Program  is  underway  in  the  Department.  Currently,  about  10  Ph.D.  students
are  pursuing  research  in  thermal,  design  and  manufacturing  streams  of  Mechanical
Engineering.  The  main  objective  of  the  academic  programs  is  to  build  capacity  and
capability  necessary  to  make  the  nation  competitive  in  the  globalized  world.  Also,  the
students  are  being  made  aware  of  professional  skills,  such  as  seeking  patentable
innovations, taking up technology transfer tasks and active collaboration with industrial
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Design, Dynamics, Vibration and Control
Head of Department
Computational Fluid Dynamics
Water, Water Management and Characterization of Engineered Materials
Anand Krishnan Plappally
Dynamics  of  Machines  and  Structures,  Flexible  Robots,  MEMS,  Rotor
Dynamics, Nonlinear Oscillations
Modeling  of  Manufacturing  Processes,  CAD/CAM,  CNC  Machining,  Error
Solar thermal sub-systems (open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy
storage,  air-water  heat  exchanger),  Thermal  hydraulics,  Turbulence
Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Heat  and  mass  transfer,  Latent  heat  based  storage  device  for  high
temperature applications, Alloy solidification process, Active and passive
solar cooling systems, Electronic cooling
Welding and joining, Manufacturing and materials processing, Mechanical
behaviour of materials
Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Prodyut R. Chakraborty
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
The Department of Biology is the hub of biological sciences at IIT Jodhpur.  The
mission of the Department is to gain excellence in education and research at the national
and international levels. The Faculty Members at the Department of Biology span a wide
range  of  biological  disciplines from  cellular  and  molecular  neuroscience,  biochemistry,
physiology to environmental biotechnology.
The Department offers B.Tech. (Biologically Inspired System Science) and Ph.D.
Program with specialisation in Biology, and in Biologically Inspired System Science. The
department  offers  a  wide  range  of  courses  from  foundational  biology  to  advanced
concepts in biological sciences from B.Tech. to Ph.D. level courses. With state-of-the-art
centralized laboratories and research facilities, hands-on learning is emphasized.
Faculty  Members  and  Students  at  the  Department  of  Biology  believe  in
collaboration both within and outside the department to enhance research potential and
productivity. Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell and Molecular Physiology
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Computational  Biology  and  Bioinformatics,  Complex  Networks,  Systems
Biology, Complex Systems
Protein  Biophysics,  Amyloids  and  Collagens,  Rationally  Engineered
Biological Science & Bio-Engineering: Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation
Head of Department
Amit Kumar Mishra
Ganesh B. Bagler
DEPARTMENT OF  CHEMISTRY
Chemistry at IIT Jodhpur is where Chemistry sees Technology.  At IIT Jodhpur,
Chemistry  embraces  a  distinctive  locus  in  science  and  technology  collaboration.  The
department is making technological contribution to new materials for energy solutions,
catalysis  and  water.  Fundamental  understanding  of  chemical  dynamics,  biological
phenomena,  Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance  and  Quantum  Chemistry  are  growing  in
prominence. The vision of the Department of Chemistry is to strive to be acknowledged
for  excellence  in  teaching,  research,  and  outreach.  The  following  Faculty  Members  are
associated with the department:
Water splitting catalysis, solar hydrogen production, Macromolecule based
molecular sensors, Heterogeneous catalysis for small molecule activation,
Green chemistry, Catalysis for stereocontrol, Plastic electronics, Feedstock
chemistry, Catalysis for energy solutions, Coordination Chemistry based of
d- and f- block element and Water chemistry
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Head of Department
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry
Quantum Information Processing
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry, Chemical Reaction Dynamics
Solution and solid state NMR and NQR spectroscopy
DEPARTMENT OF  MATHEMATICS
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with
time and creates new theories and models to solve challenging problems of today. Since
its inception, the department has been taking a leading role in developing new methods
and models that can be used in diverse areas of computer science, engineering and basic
sciences. The department has faculty with research interests in the areas of Mathematical
Physics,  Scientific  Computation,  Numerical  Analysis,  Differential  Equations,
Topological  Dynamics,  Low  Dimensional  Chaos,  Dynamical  Systems,  Renormalization
in  Low-dimensional  dynamics,  Wavelet  Analysis,  Fractional  Transform  Theory,  Image
Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, and Categorical Data Analysis.
The department offers at undergraduate and postgraduate  levels. It runs a four
year  B.Tech.  Program  in  System  Science,  and  a  Ph.D.  Program  with  specialization  in
different areas of Mathematics. Following are the Faculty Members associated with the
Theoretical,  mathematical  and  computational  aspects  of  wave-matter
Kirankumar R. Hiremath
Head of Department
Linear  and  Non-linear  Algebraic  Systems,  Optimization  Techniques,
Graph Theory and Graph Algorithms
Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Multimedia Security, Image
Processing, Information Fusion
Financial Mathematics, Insurance Models
I. Venkat Appala Raju
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
Smooth  Dynamical  Systems,  Renormalization  of  Unimodal  maps  and
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Regression
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its applications is the major
theme of Physics Department at IIT Jodhpur. The Faculty members carry out research in
the  field  of  Astrophysics,  Condensed  Matter  Physics  &  Material  Science,  Particle
Physics,  Experimental  and  Theoretical  Quantum  Optics,  Quantum  Information  and
Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. The research facilities available in the department
include SQUID magnetometer, Physics Property Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman
Spectrometer  and  Scanning  Tunnelling  Microscope  (STM).  Following  are  the  faculty
members associated with the department:
Open  Quantum  Systems;  Quantum  Information;  Non-Equilibrium  Statistical
Mechanics; Quantum Optics
Head of Department
Semiconductors,  multifunctional  ferroics  &  materials  for  energy-fabrication
& characterization, Photovoltaic materials & devices ab initio DFT study and
Particle Physics and Cosmology
Ashutosh Kumar Alok
Astrophysics, Astroparticle physics
Information Processing in Biological Systems
Optics  and  Solar  Field  Design,  Plasmonics,  Laser  Produced  Plasmas  (LPP),
Pulsed Laser Deposition (PLD), Plasma Diagnostics (Interferometry & Optical
Emission  Spectroscopy  (OES)),  Laser  Matter  Interaction  and  Laser  Cluster
The  department  also  has  a  Scholar-in-Residence,  Professor  K.  L.  Chopra,
Advisor, Thin Film Laboratory, IIT Delhi.
DEPARTMENT OF  HUMANITIES AND  SOCIAL SCIENCES
The  Department  of  Humanities  and  Social  Sciences  operates  from  spaces  that
give  us  an  opportunity  to  act  as  an  interface  between  empirical  and  experiential
knowledge systems. Playing a significant role in the academic curriculum of the young
engineers,  we  offer  both  core  and  elective  courses  at  the  Bachelors,  Masters,  and
Doctoral levels. The ability to provide tools and skills for specific aims notwithstanding,
the  essence  of  Humanities  and  Social  Sciences  involves  the  sensitizing  of  individuals.
Acting as facilitators, thus, we engage in meaningful interactions with students and help
them  witness,  study,  and  understand  the  interplays  among  technology,  society,  and
humanity. This task assumes even more significance in an educational context where the
brightest young minds of India come together.
With  Faculty  Members  who  specialize  in  diverse  disciplines  (including
Philosophy, Economics, Psychology, and Literature) and with students from a spectrum
of  backgrounds,  the  Department  provides  an  enriching  platform  -where  technical
education  can  be  complemented  with  human  and  social  understanding.  Following  are
the faculty members associated with the department:
English:  Literature  and  Environment  (Ecocriticism),  Film  and  Literature,
Literatures  of  the  Global  South,  Regional  Literatures
Head of Department
Psychology: Gerontology, Clinical and Positive Psychology
Economics:  Social  Choice  Theory,  Law  and  Economics,  Socio-economic
Networks, Economic Theory
Philosophy: Applied Ethics, Ethics of Technology, Bioethics
K. J. George
Economics:  Intellectual  Property  Rights  (IPR)  and  Pharmaceutical  Industry,
Productivity  and  Efficiency  Analysis,  Growth  and  Regional  Development,
Inequality Poverty and Social mobility
Economics:  Health  Economics,  Health  Policy,  Applied  Econometrics,
Psychology: Cognition, Psychometrics, Depression
Philosophy:  Philosophy  of  Science,  Aesthetics  of  Design,  Formal  Logic,
Philosophy of Technology
Philosophy: Cognitive Studies, Evolutionary Theory, Analytic Philosophy and
Rijo M. John
V. Hari Narayanan
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS)
Biologically  Inspired  System  Science  (BISS)  is  a  stream  initiated  with  the  broad
objective  to  design novel,  adaptive and  sustainable  technological  solutions  inspired  by
biological  systems  and  processes.  The  Institute  recognises  the  need  for  a  test-oriented
singular  education  towards  a  creativity-oriented  quality  multidisciplinary  education,
thereby blur existing boundaries between biology and engineering. B.Tech. Program in
Biologically  Inspired  System  Science  (BISS)  is  run  by  this  focus  group  in  collaboration
with the Department of Biology.
System Science (SS)
The  System  Science  stream  was  initiated  in  2011  to  promote  and  implement
interdisciplinary  education  and  research  by  adopting  a  holistic  systems  thinking
approach.  Its  vision  is  to  transform  students  into  trained  graduates  with  the  spirit  of
systems  thinking  in  diverse  domains  of  engineered  systems,  natural  systems,  and
financial systems. The focus group runs an undergraduate program, B.Tech. in System
Science (SS) in collaboration with the Department of Mathematics.
Chaman Lal Airi
Manish Kumar Bhomia
Narendra Kumar Singh
Sudesh Kumar Agnihotri
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav
Poonam Chand Sankhla
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal
Shailendra Pratap Singh
Amit Kumar Soni
Kamleshkumar J. Patel
Darsh Kumar Khatwani
T. Madhavi Lata
Ashok Kumar Lunia
Ram Singh Ratnu
Abhay Kumar Awasthi
Adarsh Kumar Srivastava
Ajay Kumar Singh
Executive Engineer (Electrical)
Executive Engineer (Civil)
Senior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Junior Technical Superintendent
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Senior Library & Information  Assistant
Junior Technical Laboratory Assistant
Junior Technical Laboratory Assistant
Currently, the Institute offers the following four sets of Programs:
1.  Bachelor of Technology Programs:
1.  B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering)
2.  B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
3.  B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
4.  B.Tech. (System Science)
5.  B.Tech. (Biologically Inspired System Science)
2.  Master of Technology Programs
1.  M.Tech. (Energy)
2.  M.Tech. (Information & Communication Technology)
3.  M.Tech. (System Science)
3.  Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Computer Science & Engineering
2.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Electrical Engineering
3.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Mechanical Engineering
4.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Biology
5.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Chemistry
6.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Mathematics
7.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Physics
8.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Humanities & Social Sciences
4.  Interdisciplinary Programs
1.  Ph.D. (Energy)
2.  Ph.D. (Information & Communication Technology)
3.  Ph.D. (System Science)
The  Institute  will  be  offering  M.Sc.  Program  in  Chemistry,  Mathematics,  and
Physics,  and  M.Tech.  Programs  in  Electrical  Engineering  and  Mechanical  Engineering
from the ensuing academic year.
Collaborations with Academia
The  Institute  has  signed  Memoranda  of  Understanding  (MoUs)  with  six
international  universities,  two  international  agencies,  three  national  institutes  and
universities, and one national agency for furthering cooperation on specific fronts. These
International Institutes and Universities
1.  University of Western Ontario, Canada (9 August 2010)
To  explore  the  possibilities  for  cooperation  in  education,  training,  and
research and also to encourage direct contact and mutual cooperation between
faculty members, departments, and research centers.
2.  Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29 August 2010)
For  the  development  of  mutually  beneficial  academic  program  and
courses;  coordination  of  academic  staff  travel  for  the  purposes  of  teaching,
research,  and  training;  cooperation  of  student  mobility  program  for  study,
research,  and  for  joint  academic  activities  such  as  research  publications,
conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation and research materials
in the field of mutual interest provided that there are no legal barriers against
exchange  and  collaboration  in  international  master’s  and  doctoral  programs
between both the institutions.
3.  University of Waterloo, Canada (25 November 2010)
For  collaborative  measures  to  foster  international  experience  and
advancement  of  knowledge  on  the  basis  of  reciprocity,  mutual  benefit,
interaction and exchange of students in graduate programs.
4.  University of Manitoba, Canada (9 December 2010)
For  the  development  of  mutually  beneficial  programs  for  student
internships and graduate study in order to provide students opportunities for
advancement of knowledge and international experience.
5.  University of California, Merced (26 April 2011)
For  the  development  of mutually  beneficial  relationships for  promoting
academic exchange,  scholarly  cooperation,  and collaborations  under  mutually
agreeable  terms  and  conditions:  the  exchange  of  faculty  members,  scientists
and students and scientific material, access to library resources, pursuit of joint
meetings,  symposia  and/or  conferences  and  access  to  laboratories  as  may  be
appropriate and feasible in the two institutes.
6.  Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15 August 2011)
For  the  development  of  sheltering  belt  plantation  as  urban  forestry
model for at a selected site at IIT Jodhpur.
Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28 February 2012)
To  promote  academic  exchanges  in  fields  where  each  party  needs  to
enhance its educational and academic programs: the academic exchanges will
include, implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures and
education  and  exchange  of  scholars,  researchers,  and  administrative  staff;
exchange  of  information  in  fields  which  are  of  interest  to  both  parties  and
exchange of graduate students in fields of interest to both parties.
1.  The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives, France
(22 November 2010)
To cooperate in areas of solar energy research, such as Concentrated Solar
Power (CSP) and Concentrated Photovoltaic (CPV), water production by using
solar energy, renewable energy storage and smart management, integration of
solar energies and energy efficiency in buildings.
2.  Embassy of France in India (28 March 2011)
To explore prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French
(c)  National Institutes and Universities
1.  All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
2.  National Law University, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
3.  Sardar Patel University of Police, Security, and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur
(12 June 2013)
To  promote  academic  exchanges  in  fields  where  each  party  needs  to
enhance its educational and academic programs.
IIT  Jodhpur  is  initiating  to  collaborate  with  industry  towards  enhancing  the
learning  experience  of  students  and  collaboration  opportunities  for  Faculty  Members.
Collaborations with Industry
1.  Vanguard Lectures; and
2.  Industry Immersion Program.
The  Vanguard  Lecture  Series  is  an  integral  part of  Blended  B.Tech.  Program.  It
enables the Students to listen to inspirational talks given by experts from Industry and
Academia, and to get a big-picture of the technological advances and emerging trends in
So far, two series of Vanguard Lectures were organised since July 2014, namely:
1.  Series 1: July - September 2014, and
2.  Series 2: January - March 2015.
The following are the details of speakers and topics covered in the two series.
S. No.  Speaker & Topic
Series 1: July – September 2014
Dr. Aravind Bharadwaj
Head-Technology, Automotive & Farm Equipment Sectors
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Chennai
“M & M Perspective on Emerging Automotive Technology Trends”
23 July 2014
Dr. Siddhartha SenGupta
Tata Consultancy Services, New Delhi
“The Future of Information and Communication Technology”
24 July 2014
Dr. Barun Chakrabarti
General Manager and Head (R&D)
Larsen & Toubro Limited, Mumbai
“Engineering – From Classroom to Real World: The L & T Perspective”
25 July 2014
Dr. Vineet Kshirsagar
Senior Director and Group Head (Government Business)
Oracle India, Bangalore
29 July 2014
Mr. Ashok Joshi
Head - Vehicle Attributes & Tech Services
Tata Motors Limited, Pune
30 July 2014
Dr. S. Sekar
Executive Director, Corporate (R&D)
Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Hyderabad
“Challenges in Power Industry and BHEL’s Technology Developments”
30 July 2014
Professor M. Jagadesh Kumar
NXP (Philips) Chair Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi
“Semi-Conductors: Driving our Future”
30 July 2014
Dr. N. Kumar
Defence Laboratory, DRDO, Jodhpur
“Nano-materials in Service of Human Kind”
30 July 2014
Professor S. G. Dani
Department of Mathematics
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai
“Sequences of Numbers, Distribution, Randomness and Applications”
19 August 2014
Professor Mohan Ramanan
Department of English
Hyderabad Central University, Hyderabad
“Some Aspects of English”
25 August 2014
Professor K. Thyagarajan
Department of Physics
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi
“Electromagnetism and Optics”
15 September 2014
Series 2: January – March 2015
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi
“Probability, Statistics and Stochastic Processes with Application”
14 January 2015
Raghuraman N. Govardhan
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
“Types of Turbomachines and Various Fluid Phenomenon around us”
19 January 2015
LNM Institute of Information Technology, Jaipur
“Computational  Electromagnetics  and
26 January 2015
its  Real  World  Application
in  Electronics  and
L. V. Subramaniyam
Senior Technical Staff Member
IBM Research (India), Bangalore
“Artificial Intelligence: Real World Applications “
27 January 2015
P. V. Madhusudan Rao
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, New Delhi
“Journey of an Idea from Classroom to Market”
29 January 2015
Timothy A. Gonsalves
Indian Institute of Technology Mandi, Mandi
2 February 2015
Gopala Krishna Srinivasan
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, Mumbai
13 February 2015
Asok K. Mallik
Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur
“Design of Rigid and Compliant Planar Linkages – Theory to Practice”
26 February 2015
Industry Immersion Program
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with five leading
Indian  Industries  to  strengthen  its  undergraduate  technical  education.  The  Industry
Immersion  Program,  the  unique  flagship  program  of  the  Institute  that  blends  the
classical  classroom  B.Tech.  Program  with  the  3-summer  engagement  in  Industry,  is
being co-hosted with the following Industries:
Larsen & Toubro Limited
TVS Motor Company Limited
MoU signed on 9 February 2015
Tata Motors Limited
MoU signed on 25 February 2015
MoU signed on 16 March 2015
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
MoU signed on 26 March 2015
MoU signed on 23 April 2015
The Institute is looking forward to sending its B.Tech. students to this Industry
Immersion Program in the summer of 2015.
The  Faculty  Members  in  the  Institute  are  currently  working  on  32  sponsored
R & D Projects
research projects. Their details are:
S. No.  Project Title
Enabling  Technologies for Intelligent Wireless Sensor Network for Health and Environment
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari
Rs. 75 Lakhs
Development of Programmable Emulator for Photovoltaic Plant to Facilitate Complex
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India
PI: Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Rs. 9.48 Lakhs
Development of Metal Doped TiO2 Low Dimension Structures by Sputtering for Gas Sensing
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 17.46 Lakhs
Reproductive Child Health
UNICEF, Jaipur Branch
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Rs. 38.52 Lakhs
Developing Dielectric Semiconductor Combinations and Processes for Flexible Organic
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 12.84 Lakhs
Bifurcation and Stability Assessment of a Highly Lightweight Rotor-Bearing System with
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India
PI: Barun Pratiher
Rs. 21.8 Lakhs
Establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education
Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, Government of India
PI: Laltu Chandra
Rs. 40 Crores
IOC-BHEL-IITJ CSP Plant
Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.
PI: Laltu Chandra
Rs. 60 Lakhs
Identification, assessment and characterization of E3 ubiquitin ligases implicated in the
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 74.5 Lakhs
Understanding the molecular function of MGRN1 in Chaperone Mediated Autophagy
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 41.19 Lakhs
How AMFR gene regulates cell division and cancer after stress exposure?
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 23.9 Lakhs
Self-assembly of collagen peptides as foundational knowledge for cardiovascular disease
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India
PI: Karunakar Kar
Rs. 18.43 Lakhs
Bioremediation of low level wastes including denitrification using microbial fuel cells
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra;  Co-PI: Atul Kumar
Rs. 23.73 Lakhs
Development of low cost Microbial Carbon capture (MCC) cells for algae cultivation and
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra
Rs. 172 Lakhs
Deposition of particulate matter in lungs
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha
Rs. 24.79 Lakhs
Role of the inflammasome associated proteins in glioma
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha,
Rs. 22.30 Lakhs
Dual scale simulations of surfactant, co-surfactant water system
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India
PI: Ananya Debnath
Rs. 21.7 Lakhs
Chemical Dynamics Simulations of Complex Organic Reactions
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India
PI: Manikandan Paranjothy
Rs. 18.7 Lakhs
Generation, Storage and Distribution of Solar Hydrogen
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 39.63 Lakhs
Asymmetric Hydrogenation on Carbon Nanotube Surface
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 25.25 Lakhs
Molecular Sensors: Synthesis and Anion Recognition Studies
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), DST, Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 27 Lakhs
Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to Transport Fuel
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 94.79 Lakhs
Multimedia security based on biometrics for copyright protection and authentication
Science and Engineering Research Board, DST, Government of India
PI: Gaurav Bhatnagar
Rs. 22 Lakhs
Development of III-Nitrides thin film(s) for high frequency saw device applications
Department of Space, Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 22.62 Lakhs
Development of Ferroelectric and their composite with hexaferrites for microwave
Defence Research & Development Organization, Jodhpur
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 9.55 Lakhs
Investigation of Magnetoelectric coupling in Cu1-xTMxO Multiferroic System
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), DAE, Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 23.42 Lakhs
Development of plasmonic metal hybrid electrode system for II-VI quantum dot sensitized
solar cells (QDSSCs) realization of carrier multiplication for better efficiency
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 32.87 Lakhs
Hunting of New Physics Through b-> S Transitions
Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Ashutosh K. Alok
Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 11.92 Lakhs
Synchrony Based Evolution of Various Biological and Artificial Systems to Understand
Complex Computational Aspects
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Satyajit Sahu
Rs. 35 Lakhs
Graph Theoretical Aspects in Quantum Information Processing
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Delhi
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 9.92 Lakhs
Language, Cognition & the Human Mind
Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India
PI: Hari Narayanan V.
Rs. 0.5 Lakhs
Where the Bougainvillea Blooms: Stories of Place from a Resilient Landscape
M. R. A. R. Educational Foundation
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran
Rs. 0.5 Lakhs
For  his  outstanding  contribution  in  the  field  of  Materials
Engineering and Microelectronics, Mahesh Kumar has been decorated
with INSA Young Scientist Medal at the INSA Annual Convention in
December 2014. This award carries a medal, citation, cash prize of Rs.
25,000/-  honorarium  to  the  candidate,  start-up  research  support  with
seed  money  of  Rs.  5  lakhs  per  year  for  a  period  of  three  years  and  a
visit  abroad  with  full  support  for  presenting  research  work  at
conferences, and/ or participating in collaborative/ training research projects wherever
This  prestigious  award was  given  for  his  work on  thin  films  of  polar  and  non-
polar Group III-Nitrides as grown by Molecular Beam Epitaxy. This work has led to the
fabrication of blue emitting InGaN/GaN multiple quantum well LEDs. More recently he
has  initiated  a  program  on  ZnO  thin  films  and  nano  structures  for  sensors  at  IIT
In 2014-15, our Faculty Members have published 50 research papers and articles
in  scholarly  journals;  19  of  their  works  have  been  covered  as  conference  presentations
and in conference proceedings; one edited book and one chapter have been contributed.
The following is a list of these research works.
1.  Bhatnagar, G., & Jonathan Wu, Q. M. (2014). A novel chaos-based secure transmission of
biometric data. Neurocomputing, 147, 444–455.
2.  Bhatnagar,  G.,  &  Liu,  Z.  (2015).  A  novel  image  fusion  framework  for  night-vision
navigation and surveillance. Signal, Image and Video Processing, 1–11.
3.  Bhatnagar, G., & Wu, Q. M. J. (2014). Biometric Inspired Multimedia Encryption Based
on  Dual  Parameter  Fractional  Fourier  Transform.  IEEE  Transactions  on  Systems,  Man,
and Cybernetics: Systems, 44(9), 1234–1247.
4.  Bhatnagar, G., Jonathan Wu, Q. M., & Atrey, P. K. (2014).  Robust logo watermarking
using  biometrics  inspired  key  generation.  Expert  Systems  with  Applications,  41(10),
5.  Bhatnagar, G., Saha, A., Wu, Q. M. J., & Atrey, P. K. (2014). Analysis and extension of
multiresolution singular value decomposition. Information Sciences, 277, 247–262.
6.  Bhatnagar, G., Wu, Q. M. J., & Liu, Z. (2015). A new contrast based multimodal medical
image fusion framework. Neurocomputing, 157, 143–152.
7.  Bisoyi,  S.,  Zschieschang,  U.,  Kang,  M.  J.,  Takimiya,  K.,  Klauk,  H.,  &  Tiwari,  S.  P.
(2014).  Bias-stress  stability  of  low-voltage  p-channel  and  n-channel  organic  thin-film
transistors on flexible plastic substrates. Organic Electronics, 15(11), 3173–3182.
8.  Chakrabarti, R., Debnath, A., & Sebastian, K. L. (2014). Diffusion in an elastic medium:
A model for macromolecule transport across the nuclear pore complex. Physica A: Statistical
Mechanics and Its Applications, 404, 65–78.
9.  Chaudhary,  G.,  Sharma,  R.  K.,  &  Plappally,  A.  K.  (2014).  Local  material  composite
sintered systems for fluoride removal. Desalination and Water Treatment, 1–12.
10.  Chhabra,  M.,  Mishra,  S.,  &  Sreekrishnan,  T.  R.  (2015).  Combination  of  chemical  and
enzymatic  treatment  for  efficient  decolorization/degradation  of  textile  effluent:  High
operational stability of the continuous process. Biochemical Engineering Journal, 93, 17–
11.  Chhangani, D., Chinchwadkar, S., & Mishra, A. (2014). Autophagy coupling interplay:
can improve cellular repair and aging? Molecular Neurobiology, 49(3), 1270–1281.
12.  Chhangani, D., Nukina, N., Kurosawa, M., Amanullah, A., Joshi, V., Upadhyay, A.,
&  Mishra,  A.  (2014).  Mahogunin  ring  finger  1  suppresses  misfolded  polyglutamine
aggregation and cytotoxicity. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Molecular Basis of
Disease, 1842(9), 1472–1484.
13.  Chhangani,  D.,  Upadhyay,  A.,  Amanullah,  A.,  Joshi,  V.,  &  Mishra,  A.  (2014).
Ubiquitin  ligase  ITCH  recruitment  suppresses  the  aggregation  and  cellular  toxicity  of
cytoplasmic misfolded proteins. Scientific Reports, 4:5077, 1-12.
14.  Chourasia,  V.  S.,  Tiwari,  A.  K.,  &  Gangopadhyay,  R.  (2014).  A  novel  approach  for
phonocardiographic signals processing to make possible fetal heart rate evaluations. Digital
Signal Processing, 30, 165–183.
15.  Dani, S. G., Shah, R., & Sharma, P. (2014). Affine almost automorphic actions on compact
nilmanifolds. Ergodic Theory and Dynamical Systems, 35(6), 1783-1794.
16.  Debnath,  A.,  Thakkar,  F.  M.,  Maiti,  P.  K.,  Kumaran,  V.,  &  Ayappa,  K.  G.  (2014).
Laterally  structured  ripple  and  square  phases  with  one  and  two  dimensional  thickness
modulations in a model bilayer system. Soft Matter, 10(38), 7630–7637.
17.  Dubey,  K.,  &  Kar,  K.  (2014).  Type  I  collagen  prevents  amyloid  aggregation  of  hen  egg
white lysozyme. Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications, 448(4), 480–
18.  Dubey,  K.,  Anand,  B.  G.,  Temgire,  M.  K.,  &  Kar,  K.  (2014).  Evidence  of  Rapid
Coaggregation  of  Globular  Proteins  during  Amyloid  Formation.  Biochemistry,  53(51),
19.  Goli, R., Shaik, A. G., & Ram, S. (2014). Fuzzy-Wavelet Based Double Line Transmission
System Protection Scheme in the Presence of SVC. Journal of the Institution of Engineers
(India): Series B, 96(2), 131-140.
20.  Gupta, S., Singh, R., Chakraborty, P. R., Sharma, R. K., Soboyejo, A. B. O., Wei, X., &
Plappally,  A.  K.  (2014).  Multi-variable  approach  to  determine  treatment  efficiency  of
wetland: size effect and electro-kinetic effects. Desalination and Water Treatment, 1–11.
21.  Hoop, C. L., Lin, H.-K., Kar, K., Hou, Z., Poirier, M. A., Wetzel, R., & van der Wel, P.
C. A. (2014). Polyglutamine Amyloid Core Boundaries and Flanking Domain Dynamics in
Huntingtin  Fragment  Fibrils  Determined  by  Solid-State  Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance.
Biochemistry, 53(42), 6653–6666.
22.  Hoop, C. L., Lin, H.-K., Kar, K., Wetzel, R., & van der Wel, P. C. A. (2015). Huntingtin
N-Terminal Fragment Fibrils have a Rigid Amyloid Core Flanked by Non-Amyloid Domains
with Increased Dynamics. Biophysical Journal, 108(2, Supplement 1), 385a–386a.
23.  Jain, P. K., & Tiwari, A. K. (2014). Heart monitoring systems—A review. Computers in
Biology and Medicine, 54, 1–13.
24.  Jha, S., & Pan-Yun Ting, J. (2015). Holding the inflammatory system in check: NLRs keep
it cool. F1000Prime Reports, 7:15, 1-11.
25.  Jindal, S., Chhibber, R., & Mehta, N. P. (2014). Prediction of element transfer due to flux
and  optimization  of  chemical  composition  and  mechanical  properties  in  high-strength  low-
alloy  steel  weld.  Proceedings  of  the  Institution  of  Mechanical  Engineers,  Part  B:
Journal of Engineering Manufacture, 1-17.
26.  Kumarasiri, A., Abdelhamid, E., Dixit, A., & Lawes, G. (2015). Effect of transition metal
doping on multiferroic ordering in FeVO4. Physical Review B, 91(1), 014420.
27.  Omkar,  S.,  Srikanth,  R.,  &  Banerjee,  S.  (2015).  Characterization  of  quantum
dynamics using quantum error correction. Physical Review A, 91(1), 012324.
28.  Omkar,  S.,  Srikanth,  R.,  &  Banerjee,  S.  (2015).  The  operator-sum-difference
representation  of  a  quantum  noise  channel.  Quantum  Information  Processing,  14(6),
29.  Paranjothy, M., & Keshavamurthy, S. (2014). Dynamical traps lead to the slowing down
of  intramolecular  vibrational  energy  flow.  Proceedings  of  the  National  Academy  of
Sciences, 111(40), 14354–14359.
30.  Perumal, S., Dubey, K., Badhwar, R., George, K. J., Sharma, R. K., Bagler, G., … Kar,
K. (2014). Capsaicin inhibits collagen fibril formation and increases the stability of collagen
fibers. European Biophysics Journal, 44(1-2), 69–76.
31.  Pratiher,  B.  (2014).  Stability  and  bifurcation  analysis  of  an  electrostatically  controlled
highly  deformable  microcantilever-based  resonator.  Nonlinear  Dynamics,  78(3),  1781-
32.  Ranwa,  S.,  Kulriya,  P.  K.,  Dixit,  V.,  &  Kumar,  M.  (2014).  Temperature  dependent
electrical  transport  studies  of  self-aligned  ZnO  nanorods/Si  heterostructures  deposited  by
sputtering. Journal of Applied Physics, 115(23), 233706.
33.  Ranwa, S., Kulriya, P. K., Sahu, V. K., Kukreja, L. M., & Kumar, M. (2014). Defect-free
ZnO nanorods for low temperature hydrogen sensor applications. Applied Physics Letters,
34.  Roul,  B.,  Kumar,  M.,  Bhat,  T.  N.,  Rajpalke,  M.  K.,  Krupanidhi,  S.  B.,  Kumar,  N.,  &
Sundaresan,  A.  (2015).  Observation  of  Room  Temperature  Ferromagnetism  in  InN
Nanostructures. Journal of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, 15(6), 4426–4430.
35.  Sahu,  S.,  Ghosh,  S.,  Fujita,  D.,  &  Bandyopadhyay,  A.  (2014).  Live  visualizations  of
single isolated tubulin protein self-assembly via tunneling current: effect of electromagnetic
pumping during spontaneous growth of microtubule. Scientific Reports, 4:7303, 1-9.
36.  Samant,  A.,  Mishra,  S.,  Yadav,  S.,  &  Badarla,  V.  (2014).  A  Cross  Layer  Protocol  to
Mitigate Effects of Radio’s Linear Impairments. International Journal of Information and
37.  Shaik,  A.  G.,  &  Pulipaka,  R.  R.  V.  (2015).  A  new  wavelet  based  fault  detection,
classification and location in transmission lines. International Journal of Electrical Power
& Energy Systems, 64, 35–40.
38.  Sharma, P., Sarma, R., Chandra, L., Shekhar, R., & Ghoshdastidar, P. S. (2014). On the
Design  and  Evaluation  of  Open  Volumetric  Air  Receiver  for  Process  Heat  Applications.
Energy Procedia, 57, 2994–3003.
39.  Singh, A. G. (2014). Achieving Ergodicity in Quasi-Static MIMO With Polynomial-Time
Complexity and One Bit of Feedback. IEEE Wireless Communications Letters, 3(5), 533–
40.  Singh,  R.,  Gupta,  S.,  Raman,  S.,  Chakraborty,  P.  R.,  Sharma,  P.,  Sharma,  R.  K.,
Plappally,  A.  K.  (2014).  Comparative  analysis  of  hydrodynamics  of  treatment  wetlands
using finite volume models with empirical data. Desalination and Water Treatment, 1–26.
41.  Sinha,  M.,  &  Sedrakian,  A.  (2015).  Magnetar  superconductivity  versus  magnetism:
Neutrino cooling processes. Physical Review C, 91(3), 035805.
42.  Tripathi,  S.,  Mohan,  A.,  &  Yadav,  S.  (2014).  A  multinotched  octagonal  shaped  fractal
UWB antenna. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 56(11), 2469–2473.
43.  Tripathi,  S.,  Mohan,  A.,  &  Yadav,  S.  (2014).  Hexagonal  fractal  ultra-wideband  antenna
using  Koch  geometry  with  bandwidth  enhancement.  IET  Microwaves,  Antennas  &
Propagation, 8(15), 1445–1450(5).
44.  Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2014). Ultra-wideband antenna using Minkowski-
like fractal geometry. Microwave and Optical Technology Letters, 56(10), 2273–2279.
45.  Tripathi,  S.,  Mohan,  A.,  &  Yadav,  S.  (2015).  A  compact  octagonal-shaped  fractal  UWB
antenna  with  Sierpinski  fractal  geometry.  Microwave  and  Optical  Technology  Letters,
46.  Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2015). A compact UWB antenna with dual 3.5/5.5
GHz  band-notched  characteristics.  Microwave  and  Optical  Technology  Letters,  57(3),
47.  Veeranki, S. P., Mamudu, H. M., John, R. M., & Ouma, A. E. O. (2015). Prevalence and
correlates  of  tobacco  use  among  school-going  adolescents  in  Madagascar.  Journal  of
Epidemiology and Global Health, 5(3), 239-247.
48.  Veeranki, S. P., Mamudu, H. M., Zheng, S., John, R. M., Cao, Y., Kioko, D., Ouma, A.
E. O. (2015). Secondhand Smoke Exposure Among Never-Smoking Youth in 168 Countries.
Journal of Adolescent Health, 56(2), 167–173.
49.  Yadav,  A.,  Kumar,  G.,  Soboyejo,  A.  B.  O.,  Gaur,  R.  S.,  Tiwari,  S.,  &  Plappally,  A.
K.(2014). Empirical models for change in pH and temperature within gravity-based reactor
columns. Desalination and Water Treatment, 1–15.
8, 1856 ISSN 0002 3353 (In Russian Language)
& PUBLICATIONS IN CONFERENCE  PROCEEDINGS
1.  Adil,  A.,  Badarla,  V.,  Plappally,  A.  K.,  Bhandari,  R.,  &  Sankhla,  P.  C.  (2015).
Development  of  affordable  ICT  solutions  for  water  conservation  in  agriculture.  In  7th
International Conference on Communication Systems and Networks (COMSNETS),
Bangalore, India, 6-10 January (pp. 1–6). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
2.  Bhartiya, P., Rathore, N., & Fulwani, D. (2014). A tutorial on implementation of sliding
mode observer for DC/DC power converters using FPGA. In IECON 2014 - 40th Annual
Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Sheraton Hotel Dallas, Dallas,
TX, U.S.A., 30 October- 01 November (pp. 4153–4159). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
3.  Bisoyi,  S.,  Rodel,  R.,  Zschieschang,  U.,  Takimiya,  K.,  Klauk,  H.,  &  Tiwari,  S.  P.
(2014).  Charge-carrier  injection,  extraction  and  trapping  dynamics  in  organic  thin-film
transistors  based  on  different  organic  semiconductors  evaluated  by  displacement  current
measurements. In 72nd Annual Device Research Conference (DRC), The University of
California, Santa Barbara, California, 22-25 June (pp. 73–74). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
4.  Chaudhary,  B.,  &  Pratiher,  B.  (2014).  Nonlinear  responses  of  externally  excited  rotor
bearing  system.  In  CSNDD  2014  -  International  Conference  on  Structural  Nonlinear
Dynamics and Diagnosis, MATEC Web of Conferences, 16, 03006, (pp. 1-4). Les Ulis,
France: EDP Science.
5.  Shaik, A. G., Yadav, S. K., Prashanth, P., & Vamshi Krishna, T. (2014). Transmission
line  protection  scheme  using  Wavelet  based  alienation  coefficients.  In  Muhamad,  M.  I.  &
Seroji,  M.  N.  (Eds.),  2014  IEEE  International  Conference  on  Power  and  Energy
(PECon),  Pullman  Hotel,  Sarwak,  Malaysia,  1-3  December  (pp.  32–36).  Piscataway,
6.  Hiremath,  K.  K.  (2014).  Finite  elements  based  numerical  solution  of  nonlocal
hydrodynamic  Drude  model  of  nano-plasmonic  scatterers,  In  12th  International
Conference  on  Fiber  Optics  and  Photonics,  Kharagpur,  India,  13-16  December  (p.
M3D.4). Washington, DC, USA: OSA.
7.  Kulkarni, S. S., & Badarla, V. (2014). On multipath routing algorithm for software defined
networks.  In  2014  IEEE  International  Conference  on  Advanced  Networks  and
Telecommuncations  Systems  (ANTS),  New  Delhi,  India,  14-17  December  (pp.  1–6).
Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
8.  Pal,  D.,  Adhikari,  B.,  &  Mazumdar,  M.  (2015).  Strategic  network  formation  involving
social  relations:  Enmity  and
International  Conference  on
Communication Systems and Networks (COMSNETS), Banglore, India, 6-10 January
(pp. 1–6). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
9.  Prakash, S. K., Sharma, R. K., Roy, M. S., & Kumar, M. (2014a). Carbon coated stainless
steel  as  counter  electrode  for  dye  sensitized  solar  cells.  In  Predeep,  P.  &  Sujith  A.  (Eds.)
AIP Conference Proceedings 1620, NIT, Calicut, Kerala, India, 19-21 March (pp. 218–
222). Melville, NY: AIP Publishing.
10.  Prakash,  S.  K.,  Sharma,  R.  K.,  Roy,  M.  S.,  &  Kumar,  M.  (2014b).  Investigation  of
chemically  synthesized  graphene  as  counter  electrode  for  dye  sensitized  solar  cells.  In
Predeep,  P.  &  Sujith  A.  (Eds.)  AIP  Conference  Proceedings  1620,  NIT  Calicut,
Calicut, Kerala, India, 19-21 March (pp. 223–229). Melville, NY: AIP Publishing.
11.  Rathore,  H.,  &  Badarla,  V.  (2014).  Primary-secondary  immune  response  adaptation  for
wireless  sensor  network.  In  Eleventh  Annual  IEEE  International  Conference  on
Sensing, Communication, and Networking (SECON), Singapore, 30 June- 3 July (pp.
164–166). Piscataway,NJ: IEEE.
12.  Sahu,  Anurag,  Dixit,  A.,  &  Hiremath,  K.  K.  (2014).  Plasmon  enhanced  absorption  in
Au:ZnO  hybrid  systems,  In  12th  International  Conference  on  Fiber  Optics  and
Photonics,  Kharagpur,  India,  13-16  December  (p.  T3A.45).  Washington,  DC,  USA:
13.  Salvi, G., Sharma, P., & Raman, S. (2014).  Efficient image retargeting for high dynamic
range scenes. In Shukla, B. (Ed.), 5th International Conference- Confluence The Next
Generation  Information  Technology  Summit,  Amity  University,  Noida,  Uttar
Pradesh, 25-26 September (pp. 543–548). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
14.  Samant,  A.,  Badarla,  V.,  Yadav,  S.,  Vutukuru,  M.,  Khanna,  P.,  &  Luther,  E.  (2015).
Latency  and  cost  requirements  of  systems  for  teaching  MAC  protocols.  In  Twenty  First
National Conference on Communications (NCC), IIT Bombay, Mumbai, 27 February-
01 March (pp. 1–6). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
15.  Singh,  S.,  &  Fulwani,  D.  (2014a).  Constant  power  loads:  A  solution  using  sliding  mode
control. In IECON 2014 - 40th Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics
Society,  Sheraton  Hotel  Dallas,  Dallas,  TX,  U.S.A.,  30  October-  01  November  (pp.
1989–1995). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
16.  Singh,  S.,  &  Fulwani,  D.  (2014b).  Voltage  regulation  and  stabilization  of  DC/DC  buck
converter  under  constant  power  loading.  In  2014  IEEE  International  Conference  on
Power Electronics, Drives and Energy Systems (PEDES), IIT Bombay, Mumbai, 16-19
December (pp. 1–6). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
17.  Harsha,  C.  S.,  Prasanth,  C.  S.  R.,  &  Pratiher,  B.  (2014).  Modeling  and  non-linear
responses of MEMS capacitive accelerometer. In CSNDD 2014 - International Conference
on Structural Nonlinear Dynamics and Diagnosis, MATEC Web of Conferences, 16,
04003, 4. Les Ulis, France: EDP Science.
18.  Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. (2014). A compact dual band-notched fractal antenna
for UWB application. In Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC),  Sendai, Japan,
4-7 November (pp. 205–207). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
19.  Tripathi,  S.,  Mohan,  A.,  &  Yadav,  S.  (2014).  A  compact  octagonal  shaped  fractal  UWB
MIMO  antenna  with  5.5  GHz  band-notch  characteristics.  In  IEEE  MTT-S  International
Microwave and RF Conference (IMaRC), Yeshwanthpur, Bangalore, 15-17 December
(pp. 178–181). Piscataway, NJ: IEEE.
1.  Vijay, V., Yadav, S., Adhikari, B., Seshadri, H., & Fulwani, D. (Eds.). (2015). Systems
Thinking Approach for Social Problems (Vol. 327). New Delhi: Springer India.
1.  RajanBabu, T. V., Adam Cox, G., Lim, H. J., Nomura, N., Sharma, R. K., Smith, C. R.,
&  Zhang,  A.  (2014).  Hydrovinylation  Reactions  in  Organic  Synthesis.  In  P.  Knochel
(Ed.),  Comprehensive  Organic  Synthesis  II  (Second  Edition)  (pp.  1582–1620).
Amsterdam: Elsevier Science.
IIT  Jodhpur  is  picking-up  momentum  in  its  outreach  activities  to  provide
technical  advantage  to  persons  outside  the  Institute.  Some  of  these  activities  include
engagement  with  interior  India,  sharing  lecture  series  with  the  interested  intellectuals,
encouraging  young  students  of  India  to  take  to  technology,  and  special  focus  on
students of North-East India.
Undergraduate Research Initiative
The  Undergraduate  Research  Initiative  (UGRI)  Program  at  Indian  Institute  of
Technology Jodhpur provides an effective platform to the students to engage in research
with  Faculty  Members  of  the  Institute.  Also,  students  can  get  a  chance  to  develop
valueble  mentorship  through  the  guidance  of  experienced  Faculty  Members  of  the
In  2014-15,  the  UGRI  program  was  opened  for  both  IIT  Jodhpur  students  and
Non-IIT  Jodhpur  students.  Eleven  candidates  were  selected  from  a  large  pool  of
applications,  on  the  basis  of  the  merit  of  the  proposal  submitted.  The  program  was
organized from 6 May to 5 July 2014.  During the program, a remuneration of Rs. 8000
per month, as stipend, was given to the participating candidates, along with a maximum
amount of Rs. 1000 for preparing posters and reports.
Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Aligning  ourselves  with  the  MHRD’s  Unnat  Bharat  Abhiyan,  the  Institute  has
just identified the three villages, with which it would be engaged. Work is underway to
undertake  a  techno-social  survey  to  understand  the  villages  and  identify  technology
challenges being faced by them.
There  are  a  number  of  villages  surrounding  the  permanent  campus  site  of  IIT
Jodhpur with whom initiatives can be taken up in building organic relations as a part of
Unnat  Bharat  Abhiyan  (UBA).  A  survey  was  conducted  in  short-listing  these  villages.
Idea is to develop some technologies such as low cost filters to reduce fluoride contents.
UBA at IIT Jodhpur has shortlisted themes such as low cost waste management by using
local material and Ayurvedic materials, compost toilets, solar energy, precision farming
to  be  taken  up  in  these  villages.  IIT  Jodhpur  is  also  taking  initiatives  in  sensitizing
students and faculty members to work under UBA activities.
A core team of people coordinates the activities of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan at IIT
Jodhpur by rendering their services by being a part of the team, through their expertise
various areas like technological interventions to improve the quality of life in villages; in
socio economic study; in contributing to the task of building an organic relation with the
villages through other means.
The  activities  of  Unnat  Bharat  Abhyan  are  coordinated  by  V.  Hari  Narayanan,
Coordinator  (Students).  Alongside,  Faculty  Members,  Staff  Members  and  Students  are
involved in the activities.
The Institute invites accomplished persons from different walks of life to expand
and  enrich  the  horizons  of  its  Faculty  Members,  Staff  Members  and  Students.  These
invitations are grouped under the following categories, namely:
1.  Distinguished Lectures,
2.  MEA - IITJ Distinguished Lectures, and
3.  Extra-Mural Lectures.
Details of the lectures organized in the Institute in this year are, as below:
The Distinguished Lecture series brings in a meaningful exchange of ideas from
outside to the Institute with eminent scholars of Humanities, Sciences and Technology.
The following Distinguished Lectures were delivered till now:
(1)  Professor Bruce Alberts
Renowned American Biochemist
Former President, National Academy of Sciences, USA
“Science and the World’s Future”
17 January 2014
(2)  Professor K. L. Chopra
Former Director, IIT Kharagpur
“Ethics in Science & Technology”
10 March 2015
MEA - IITJ Distinguished Lectures
In collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs (Government of India), the
Institute  launched  the  “MEA  –  IIT  Jodhpur  Distinguished  Lecture  Series”,  where  current
and former Ambassadors of India spend time at the Institute to share their experiences
and understanding of India from outside India.
So far, two distinguished visitors were invited to the Institute:
(1)  Ashok Sajjanhar
Former Ambassador to Latvia, Sweden and Kazakhstan;
Currently, Secretary of National Foundation of Communal Harmony (NFCH)
“India's Foreign Policy: Challenges and Opportunities”
11 April 2014
(2)   Bhaswati Mukherjee
Former Ambassador of India to the Netherlands & Permanent
Representative to the UN
“Indian Culture and Civilisation through the Ages”
12 February 2015
Professionals with standing and missionary zeal, who dedicated their lifetime in
specific domains, are invited to the Institute to share their career paths  - the trials and
tribulations,  and  the  way  forward  for  the  current  generation  seeking  to  tread  such
challenges. The Extra-Mural Lectures delivered in this year are:
(1)    Pallavi Kumar
MOHAN Foundation, New Delhi
“Have you ever thought about organ donation?”
15 October 2014
(2)  Chitra Madhavan
Historian and Archeologist
“The Development of Temple Architecture in India”
21 January 2015
(3)  Prabhat Ranjan
Executive Director, Technology Information, Forecasting and Assessment
Council (TIFAC), New Delhi
“My Journey to Brain”
30 January 2015
Participation in IIT Pavilion at India-US Technology Summit and Knowledge Expo
IIT  Jodhpur  participated  in  the  India-US  Technology  Summit  and  Knowledge
Expo, from 18-22 November 2014, at India Expo Mart, Greater Noida, Delhi NCR. The
Technology Summit was organized by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and
Department  of  Science  &  Technology,  Government  of  India,  on  18-19  November  2014.
The  Knowledge  Expo  2014  was  organized  from  20-22  November  2014,  which  was  a
confluence of six key verticals of the economy coming at the cusp of knowledge creation
and  consumption-  higher  education,  intellectual  property,  design,  innovation  and
entrepreneurship, research & development and technology.
A team of six members comprising of Faculty and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur
represented  the  Institute  and  showcased  the  Institute’s  thrust  areas  in  research,  like
Solar  Energy,  technology  areas  in  development  in  IIT  Jodhpur’s  Technology  Park  like
Critical  Technologies,  Arid  Zone  Technologies,  Automotive  Technologies,  and  Health
Care Technologies, and its Academic Programs, on this occasion.
IIT Jodhpur Team at the Knowledge Expo 2014
The  Second  Convocation  of  IIT  Jodhpur  was  held  on  16  July  2014.  Former
Director General of Defence Research and Development Organisation and distinguished
missile  scientist  Dr.  V.  K.  Saraswat  graced  the  occasion  as  the  Chief  Guest  of  the
ceremony. On this occasion, 127 B.Tech. Students and 31 M.Tech. students received their
Members of Senate on dais
Award of Degrees to Students
Celebration of National Festivals
Independence Day Celebrations
The  68th  Independence  Day  was  celebrated  in  the  Institute  on  15  August  2014
with  a  great  spirit  of  patriotism.  The  Director,  Faculty  Members,  Staff  Members  and
Students participated in it. The function started at 08.05 am on the morning of 15 August
at  the  Academic  Campus  with  the  Director,  Professor  C.  V.  R.  Murty  hoisting  the
national flag, followed by rendering of the national anthem and Director’s address. The
students  organized  various  cultural  programs  like  performance  of  IITJ  musical  band
‘Sangam’,  recitation  of  patriotic  poems,  speeches,  dance  and  street  play  performance.
Prizes  were  distributed  to  students  who  aced  in  academics  and  extra-curricular
activities. The national festival was also celebrated in the two residential campuses of the
Cultural Presentation by Students on 15.8.2014
Republic Day Celebrations
The 66th Republic Day was celebrated in academic and
residential  campuses  of  IIT  Jodhpur  on  26  January  2015.
Professor  C.  V.  R.  Murty,  Director,  II  T  Jodhpur  unfurled  the
flag  in  the  academic  campus  at  8.00  am  and  addressed  the
members of Faculty and Staff, and Students. Republic Day was
also  celebrated  at  the  two  residential  campuses.  Later  in  the
evening a cultural program and a get together was organized
for  the  IIT  Jodhpur  community  at  the  GPRA  Residential
Ground Breaking Ceremony
The  Institute  performed  the  groundbreaking  ceremony  of  auspicious  bhoomi
poojan  at  its  permanent  campus  at  Karwar  Village  on  2  May  2014.  The  pooja  was
performed by Sh. Amardeep Sharma, Assistant Registrar of the Institute. It was attended
by the Director and other invitees of the Institute. This ceremony marks the beginning of
our own, permanent campus construction activity.
Performing Bhoomi Poojan & Ground Breaking Ritual
Strengthening IIT Jodhpur Community…
Team Building Workshop
The  institute  conducted  a  ‘Lightening  Survey’  and  a  ‘Way  Forward  Survey'  in
which  the  Faculty  and  Staff  Members  of  the  institute  have  provided  their  valuable
inputs that served very valuable and helped to identify a departure point. Towards our
objective  of  making  this  Institute  a  special  place  for  our  students,  staff  members  and
faculty  members,  and  a respectable  one  in  the  eyes  of  industry  and  the nation,  a  need
was felt to shift gears to reach many more heights.
In continuation to these efforts, to synergise the energies of all Faculty and Staff
Members at the Institute, a 2-day "Team Building Workshop" was arranged during 1-2
May  2014,  which  was  attended  by  all  faculty  and  staff  members  of  the  institute.  The
workshop  was  organized  by  M/s  Dialog,  a  professional  group  from  Gurgaon,  which
was coordinated by some of the faculty members with the help of Mr. M. L. Bapna, our
advisor (Academia-Industry Interface). During this 2-day exciting event, the IIT Jodhpur
community worked out the future landscape, blueprint and vision of the Institute with
great  enthusiasm  and  vigour  by  contributing  their  invaluable  thoughts  and  inputs.
These two days witnessed great enthusiasm and coming-togetherness of the IIT Jodhpur
Workshop on Leadership System
To  take  forward  our  human  resource  development  focus,  a  workshop  on
“Leadership System” was organized on 9 August 2014 with the following objectives:
1.  To crystallise the Vision, Mission and Core Values of the Institute, and develop a
common understanding of the same;
2.  To set strategic goals in keeping with the above;
3.  To align with the said Vision and Mission; and
4.  To develop a Leadership System at IIT Jodhpur to achieve the objectives.
The  event  was  facilitated  by  Mrs.  Rashmi  Datt  from  M/s  Dialog,  Gurgaon,  and
Mr.  M.  L.  Bapna,  Advisor,  Industry-Academia  Interface,  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  Faculty  and
Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur attended this workshop.
Faculty Development Program
A Faculty Development Program was organized for the Faculty Members of IIT
Jodhpur in  the month of December 2014. It was organized in two series. First one was
from 2-6, and the second one was from 9-13, December 2014.
During  this  FDP,  eminent  academicians  and  accomplished  personalities  were
invited  to  conduct  sessions  on  topics  like  Academic  Career,  Research  –  Proposals,
Projects and Publishing, IPR Issues, Teaching  – Pedagogical Aspects and Engaging the
New  Generation,  Time  Management,  Professional  and  Personal  Development.  The
program was attended by all the Faculty Members.
Farewell to the outgoing batch of Students
As  a  benign  gesture  to  mark  our  association  so  far  with  the  Final  Year  B.Tech.
and  Final  Year  M.Tech.  Students,  the  Institute  organized  a  small  function  followed  by
dinner with the outgoing students on 2 May 2014. This event was organized in the lawns
of  the  Academic  Campus  of  the  Institute  at  7:30  pm  and  the  Director  of  the  Institute
graced the occasion and wished the outgoing students a fulfilling career and wonderful
life  ahead.  On  this  occasion,  the  students  who  performed  very  well  in  extra-curricular
activities were presented with medals and certificates. Mahesh Chand Gurjar from CSE,
Sudhir Kumar Singh from EE and Abhinav from ME were given the awards in B.Tech.
category,  while  Avadhesh  Kumar  Sharma  was  awarded  in  M.Tech.  category.  It  was  a
moment of melancholy of feelings for the outgoing students, as well as for the Faculty
and  Staff  members  for  the  institute.  With  this  event,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  marked  the
beginning of celebrating Institute Day on 2 May.
Award of Certificates to Best Performers and Farewell to the outgoing batch of Students
on the occasion of Institute Day on 2.5.2014
Observance of Days of National Importance & Awareness Drives
In  commemoration  of  the  birth  anniversary  of  Dr.  Sarvepalli  Radhakrishnan,
Teachers Day was celebrated in the Institute on 6 September 2014. The Faculty Members
and  Students  of  IIT  Jodhpur  had  an  opportunity  to  hear  Professor  D.V.  Pai  from  IIT
Gandhinagar  and  Professor  M.  Jagadesh  Kumar  from  IIT  Delhi  who  visited  us  on  the
occasion, and to interact with them. On this occasion, students were awarded certificates
for best performance in academics. In the evening, a cultural function was organized at
the GPRA Residential Campus of IIT Jodhpur, as a part of the Teacher's Day celebration.
Teachers Day Program on 6.9.2014
Swacch Bharat Abhiyan & Gandhi Jayanti
The  Institute  undertook  cleanliness  drive  under  the  Swachh  Bharat  Abhiyan
from 25 September 2014 to 2 October 2014. A pledge for “Swachh Bharat Mission” was
taken  by  the  entire  IIT  Jodhpur  community,  on  2  October  2014,  on  the  145th  birth
anniversary  of  Mahatma  Gandhi.  Gandhi  Jayanti  was  celebrated  in  the  GPRA
Residential Campus in the evening, where in the Students, Faculty Members, and Staff
Members participated. As a part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, IIT Jodhpur invited the
District  Collector  of  Jodhpur  District,  Dr.  Pritam  B.  Yashwant  for  a  talk  and  an
interactive  session  on  Jodhpur  Swachhata  aur  Harit  (JoSH)  launched  by  the  District
Collectorate in the local premises of Jodhpur, on 16 October 2014.
Coffee with Collector on Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, 16.10.2014
Rashtriya Ekta Diwas
National Unity  Day  was  observed  on  31  October  2014,  the  birth  anniversary  of
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel by taking the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas pledge. On this occasion,
literary works of Sardar Patel were highlighted in Library.
Initiatives in Establishment & Administration
Before  embarking  on  new  recruitments  of  Faculty  and  Staff  Members,  the
Institute  has  developed  norms  for  the  processes  to  be  adopted.  This  has  assisted  the
Institute  in  its  new  recruitment  cycles.  12  offers  to  Administrative  Staff  Members  and
three  to  Faculty  Members  were  made  this  year.  New  online  application  system  was
developed and adopted for both Faculty and Staff recruitment.
Administrative Systems and Processes
Administration  is  working  to  promote  smooth  Governance  with  emphasis  on
transparency,  accountability,  growth-orientation,  and
structures.  Efforts  are  underway  at  developing  a  process-oriented  organisation  with
defined  norms  and  systems  to  undertake  various  activities  of  the  Institute.  Special
attention  is  given  to  human  aspects  in  the  functioning  of  the  Institute,  including
adherence to unified mission, vision and core values.
At present, IIT Jodhpur operates from two sets of temporary campuses, namely:
Temporary  Academic  Campus:  It  operates  independently  from  the  premises  of  MBM
Engineering  College  in  Jodhpur,  situated  on  the  Old  Residency  Road,  Ratanada,  at  a
distance  of  about  4  km  from  the  Jodhpur  Railway  Station  and  3  kms  from  the  Jodhpur
Temporary Residential Campuses: IIT Jodhpur has two residential campuses located at (1)
GPRA  Residential  Campus,  New  Pali  Road  Jodhpur,  and  (2)  BSNL  Residential  Campus,
Subhash  Nagar, Jodhpur.  GPRA  Campus is located  at  New Pali  Road,  about  17  kms from
the  academic  campus  and  provides  accommodation  to  nearly  600  B.Tech.  boy  and  all  girl
students. Also, it provides accommodation to nearly 150 other members of IIT community,
including Faculty Members, Staff Members, and their family members. On the other hand,
BSNL Campus is located in the heart of the city and provides accommodation to nearly 150
male M.Tech. and Ph.D. students. Limited housing is available on this campus for married
TEMPORARY ACADEMIC CAMPUS
Currently, the academic campus of IIT Jodhpur comprises of three blocks, namely:
(i)  Academic  Block  1:  It  houses  several  laboratories,  the  library,  a  computer  center  and
offices of some Faculty Members.
(ii)  Academic  Block  2:  It  comprises  of  lecture  halls,  classrooms,  language  lab  and
(iii)  Administrative  Block:  It  comprises  the  Directorate,  administrative  offices,  technical
laboratories and offices of some Faculty Members.
In  addition,  the  academic  campus  consists  of  some  temporary  structures  used  for
different purposes such as laboratories and office spaces. IIT Jodhpur has established good
academic facilities for teaching and research. The Institute has well equipped Laboratories
and a Library.
Laboratories and Research Facilities
IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories. These
advanced  laboratories  have  machinery  and  devices  of  international  standard,  which  are
actively  used  in  research.  The  major  laboratories  include  Heat  Transfer,  Fluid  Mechanics,
Electronic  Circuit  Laboratory,  Robotics,  Electro Mechanical  Energy  Conversion  Laboratory
and Solar Radiation.
The  Library  has  a  collection  of  about  12,000  volumes  of  books  comprising  of
textbooks, research and reference books, monographs etc. In addition, the Library provides
access  to  a  range  of  electronic  resources  from  professional  and  scholarly  societies  and
publishers,  such  as  American  Society  for  Mechanical  Engineers,  Institute  for  Electrical  &
Electronics  Engineers,  and  Association  for  Computing  Machinery,  to  name  a  few.  Also,  it
subscribes to popular scientific, research and archival databases, like SciFinder, MathSciNet,
JStor, Prowess, and EBSCO Academic Search.
The  Library  operates  in  a  computerized  environment  with  automated  member  &
circulation  services,  and  digital  library  services.  Memberships,  circulation,  reference  &
information  service,  inter  library  loans  &  document  lending  services,  current  awareness
service, digital library service are some of the important services that are presently offered.
TEMPORARY RESIDENTIAL CAMPUSES
GPRA Residential Campus
The  major  residential  area  is  in  a  scenic  campus  located  on  New  Pali  Road,  Vivek
Vihar,  Jodhpur,  about  20  kms  from  the  railway  station.  The  campus  is  well  guarded  and
equipped with basic amenities including Wi-Fi, recreational rooms and a computer center.
Also,  the  residential  campus  provides  accommodation  for  Faculty  Members  and  Staff
Members  of  the  Institute.  Transport  facility  is  available  between  the  Institute  and
BSNL Residential Campus
The  second  residential  campus  is  located  in  BSNL  Colony  on  Pal  Link  Road  in
Subhash Nagar. Basic common facilities are available at BSNL colony. Transport facility is
available between  the  Institute  and  BSNL  Campus.  All  male  M.Tech.  and  Ph.D.  and  some
married students are given accommodation in this residential campus.
Following are some basic facilities made available in the residential areas:
(a)  ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of SBI (State Bank of India) as well as an
ATM of SBI, enabling students to make transactions with ease. There are several other
banks namely UCO, HDFC and SBBJ close to the academic area.
(b)  Canteen: There are two sets of canteens, one at Residential Campus and the other one in
Academic  Campus.  They  provide  hygienic  food,  fresh  juices  and  various  other  snacks
for the students.
(c)  Gymnasium:  A  well-equipped  gymnasium  is  present  in  the  Residential  Campuses,
operational during 5 am to 10 pm. Students can avail these facilities to stay healthy and
to maintain his/her physique.
(d)  Dining Facility: There are two sets of Dining Facilities, one in the Residential Campuses
and  the  other  one  in  the  Academic  Campus.  The  mess  offers  good  quality  food,
regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene and nutritional values, and provided at
(e)  Shops:  Shops  catering  to  the  various  primary  needs  of  students  are  present  near  the
Academic  Campus.  A  small  outlet  is  functional  inside  GPRA  campus  for  urgent  petty
(f)  Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Residential and
Academic Campuses at regular intervals, exclusively for the Students of the Institute.
(g)  Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of recreation facilities (like TV Rooms, where
students  can  enjoy  matches  and  watch  movies)  along  with  indoor  games  (like  table
tennis and carroms).
Both  the  Residential  Campuses  have  Health  Centers  for  providing  routine  health
services. Due to geographical locations of the two Campuses and the type of the residents,
Health  Center  at  GPRA  Campus  provides  services  to  the  patients  round  the  clock,  while
medical services are available at BSNL Campus for limited hours in the evening, typically
from  5  pm  to  10  pm.  In  addition  to  the  availability  of  medical  services  at  Residential
Campuses, medical assistance is available at Academic Campus. This assistance is normally
provided  from  3  pm  to  4.30  pm,  when  laboratory  sessions  are  in  full  swing  and  medical
assistance  may  be  required.  The  Institute  has  its  ambulance  services  available  round-the-
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city of
Jodhpur.  Two  of  these  hospitals  have  specializations  in  ophthalmology  and  one  in
orthopedic, and the remaining two hospitals are the best known general purpose hospitals
in the city. For specialized medical attention doctors at our Health Centers refer patients to
one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a Medical College and
three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city All India Institute of Medical
Sciences  (AIIMS),  which  is  nearly  12  km  GPRA  Campus  and  nearly  5  km  from  BSNL
Campus.  Also,  the  Institute  has  constituted  a  Medical  Board  consisting  of  Senior  Doctors
from  the  Medical  College  and  the  AIIMS;  advice  is  taken  for  enhancement  of  medical
services of the Health Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT Jodhpur has empanelled two
hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for
Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the
In  the  forthcoming  years,  IIT  Jodhpur  will  shift  to  its  sprawling  state-of-the-art
residential permanent campus on 852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center of
the  city  of  Jodhpur  on  National  Highway  65  towards  Nagaur,  N-NE  from  the  center  of
Jodhpur. The permanent campus has 3 parcels of land. The Institute is  finalizing plans for
adopting  one  of  for  harvesting  technologies.  This  new  campus  has  been  planned
meticulously and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep.
The foundation stone for the permanent campus was laid on 16 April 2013 by the Hon.
Union  Minister  for  Human  Resources  Development  (Government  of  India),  Dr.  M.  M.
Pallam  Raju.  The  Permanent  Campus  of  the  Institute  is  being  constructed.  Work  to  build
Phase  1  of  the  campus  began  in  March  2015.  When  complete,  it  will  be  the  first  fully-
planned  technical  institute  campus  in  India.  More  importantly,  it  will  be  an  international
exemplar  of  sustainability  with  strategies  for  ensuring  NET  ZERO  ENERGY,  WATER  and
WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are:
(1)  Walking campus, which is pedestrian oriented and bicycle dominant;
(2)  Learning  facilitated  anywhere,  anytime  with  wireless  ICT  backbone  (including  Multi-
media enabled learning spaces with flexible, shared public spaces);
(3)  Thermally  comfortable  smart  buildings  with  GRIHA  4/5  star  compliant buildings  and
GRIHA  LD  benchmark  campus  (including  dense  desert  settlement  morphology,  low
height  buildings  (up  to  a  maximum  of  3  storeys)  built  with  low  embodied  energy
materials, and improved local and traditional methods);
(4)  Plantation  with  native  species,  soil  stabilization,  protection  from  dusty  wind  to  arrest
erosion, desertification, and building-up soil moisture over time;
(5)  Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and sewage recycling, together greening the
site over time; and
(6) Segregated wastes and customized recycling
Entrance structure of IIT Jodhpur permanent campus
The campus will have housing for Faculty Members and Staff Members, along with a
school  (up  to  Class  XII),  bank,  post  office  and  market.  Also, it will have a  Primary Health
Center  with  hotline  connections  to  reach  the  top  hospitals  of  the  city,  like  the  All  India
Institute  of  Medical  Sciences,  Jodhpur,  and  a  fully  equipped  ambulance  service.  A  large
parcel  of  the  Permanent  Campus  (of  about  182  acres)  is  set  aside  for  the  development  a
TECHNOLOGY PARK to strengthen institute-industry interactions.
The first migrations into the campus are likely to take place by early July 2016.
Faculty Member housing
The  Institute  has  a  modern  Computer  Center,  presently  running  on  a  gigabit  LAN
with  1Gbps  internet  bandwidth.  It  is  the  nucleus  of  all  computing  activities  for  Students,
Staff  Members  and  Faculty  Members.  Several  terminals  running  on  Windows  and
GNU/Linux  operating  systems  across  the  campus,  provide  access  to  several  licensed
software,  like  MatLab,  Mathematica,  Cadence,  Mentor  Graphic,  Ansys,  PSCAD  and
Solidworks. A 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi service is enabled in the academic and residential areas.
Also,  the  Computer  Centre  hosts  a  High  Performance  Computing  cluster  for  scientific
The  Institute  has  five  key  resources  at  the  Computer  Center,  namely,  the  Linux
Operating  System,  SVN  Server,  GIT  Server,  OwnCloud  and  various  licensed  application
software that are used for academic and research purpose, have made it possible to offer the
various resources and facilities.
The  Institute  extends  three  facilities,  namely,  networking,  computing,  and  Internet
access facilities through its Computer Center.
The  Institute  offers  services  like  FTP,  LDAP,  HPC,  Web  Hosting,  Network
Connectivity, VPN, EduRoam, and News Group, through its Computer Center.
Library  supports  the  teaching  and  research  activities  of  the  Institute  by  facilitating
acquisition, organization and dissemination of knowledge resources, and also by providing
library & information services to IIT Jodhpur community. Library is located on the ground
floor of Academic Block I in the Academic Campus of IIT Jodhpur, in room nos. 1001, 1001
Extension, and 1011. Library functions with the guidance of Library Committee, which has
representatives from all Departments, and Student Representatives.
Room No. 1001, AB1 – Stacks & Circulation Section
The  Library  has  a  rich  and  growing  collection  of  12,000  volumes  of  books  (approx.),
which  include  textbooks,  and  books  of  general  and  reference  nature.  A  wide  range  of
scholarly journals and databases are also subscribed from various sources for the academic
and research purposes of the Institute.
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided by the Library to its registered
1.  Member & Circulation Services
2.  Orientation & User Education
3.  Borrowing Facility
4.  Reference & Information Service
5.  Course Reserves
6.  Current Awareness Service
7.  Inter Library Loan & Document Supply
8.  Digital Library Facility & Services
Digital  resources  are  accessible  through  the  Library  website,  which
comprehensive site maintained by Library. They include the Library subscribed resources,
online catalogue, lists of useful resources accessible in the open domain like the open access
journals,  books,  repositories,  video  lectures,  open  courseware.  These  resources  are
Library  also  maintains  a  portal  for  hosting  bibliographic  listing  of  the  Faculty
Publications. Additionally,  a  course  guide  portal  has also been  developed  and  maintained
by Library, wherein, resources i.e., books available in Library, subscribed journals, resources
accessible in open domain are listed and linked, course-wise. This platform is very useful for
the  students  in  finding  topical  and  course-wise  resources.  Library  also  provides  remote
access to the subscribed scholarly resources and anti-plagiarism checking.
Room No. 1011, AB1  – Course Reserves & Digital Library Section            Room No. 1001 Extension, AB1  – Reading Room
Appearing below are some vital statistics of Library for FY 2014-15:
S. No.  Description
a.  Number of titles added
b.  Number of volumes added
Number of Scholarly Resources subscribed
a.  Fulltext resources
b.  Research databases
Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requests fulfilled
a.  Document supply of articles & research papers
b.  Books arranged on Inter Library Loans
a.  Number of book check-outs
b.  Number of book check-ins
c.  Number of book renewals
d.  Number of book recalls
Details of E-Resources
Library  has  licensed  the  following  electronic  resources  in  this  year,  for  teaching,
research and private study of its academic community.
A.  Fulltext Resources
1.  Association of Computing Machinery Digital Library
2.  American Chemical Society Journals
3.  American Institute of Physics Journals
4.  American Physical Society Journals
5.  American Society for Mechanical Engineers Digital Library
6.  Bioinformatics Journal
7.  EBSCO Academic Search Complete
8.  Human Molecular Genetics Journal
IEL (IEEE) Online Digital Library
10.  Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and Environment Journal
11.  Journal of Biological Chemistry Journal
12.  Journal of Consciousness Studies
13.  Journal of Immunology
14.  JStor Archives
15.  MIT CogNet Journals
16.  Nature Journal
17.  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
18.  Quantum Information and Computation Journal
19.  Royal Society of Chemistry Journals
20.  Science Online
21.  Elsevier Science Journals
22.  Society of Industrial & Applied Mathematics Journals
23.  Springer Journals
B.  Research Databases
1.  CMIE Prowess
2.  EPW India Times Series
Along  with  providing  regular  library  facilities  and  services,  the  library  staff
members  are  also  engaged  in  rendering  services  in  preparation  of  Institute’s  publications
like the Annual Report, Institute Newsletter; and also actively contribute in maintaining the
Institute’s website and repositories.
Library  has  conducted  an  anti-plagiarism  awareness  and  training  session  using
Turnitin  Anti-Plagiarism  software  on  20  September  2014.  It  was  attended  by  Faculty
Members and Students.
IIT Jodhpur has established good number of teaching and research laboratories and
facilities,  which  aid  in  elevating  the  students  from  minimalist  academic  concerns  to
inquisitive world of scientific arena. These teaching and research laboratories help Faculty
Members  and  Students  work  for  better  future  by  supplementing  and  improving  existing
technologies  and bodies  of  knowledge,  using  competence, creativity  and  imagination.  The
list of laboratories established in IIT Jodhpur is below, and whose details follow.
Sl. No.  Name of the Laboratory
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
Chemical Biology laboratory
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
Digital Language Laboratory
Dynamics & Vibration Laboratory
Electro Magnetic Energy Conversion Laboratory
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Instrumentation & Communication Laboratory
16.  Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS / SQUID) Laboratory
17.  Materials Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
18.  Materials Analysis Laboratory
19.  Multimedia Laboratory
Networking Technologies Laboratory
Power Electronics Laboratory
Protein Engineering Laboratory
Renewable Energy Laboratory
Solar Radiation Laboratory
1. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
In the Advance Manufacturing Laboratory, CAD model of object is prepared using 3D
modelling  software  like  ProE,  SolidWorks,  and  Catia.  FE  analysis  is  carried  out  using
Analysis  software  like  Ansys,  Nastran/Patran  and  precision  manufacturing  is  carried  out
using CNC programing/CNC machines and Rapid Prototyping Machine/ 3D Printer. The
manufactured  components  are  characterised  for  mechanical  behaviour  using  UTM,
Hardness testers, Impact testers etc. The role of CNC machines in increasing flexibility and
precision of the product to be manufactured and, increasing productivity are illustrated. The
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory of institute is equipped with following facilities:
1.  CAD Section
2.  Precision Machining Section
3.  Rapid Prototyping Section
4.  Mechanical Behaviour Characterisation section
2. Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
The  Advanced  Biosciences  and  Neuroscience  laboratory  is  a  part  of  the  center  of
excellence in biologically inspired systems science (BISS). This laboratory provides cellular
and molecular investigative tools for UG and PG teaching and research in neuroscience. Cell
culture  studies  are  utilised  along  with  molecular  biology,  biochemistry  and  microscopy
approaches  to  elucidate  the  molecular  mechanisms  underlying  molecular  and  cellular
interactions underlying inflammation and repair. Inflammation is a key component of many
diseases  including  traumatic  brain  injury,  cancer,  multiple  sclerosis,  stroke,  asthma,
is  characterized  by
Parkinson’s  disease  and  Alzheimer’s  disease.
accumulation  and  proliferation  of  innate  immune  cells.  This  is  followed  by  clearance  of
dead cells and cellular debris along with enhanced expression of molecular mediators called
cytokines  and  chemokines,  which  cause  migration  and  proliferation  of  immune  cells  and
may even lead to cell death. Understanding the mechanisms by which inflammation occurs,
and  the  molecular  mediators  involved  in  this  process,  is  necessary  for  identification  of
potential therapeutic targets.
3. Biomolecular Information Processing laboratory
This  laboratory  is  involved  in  the  understanding  of  information  processing  by
various  kinds  of  biomolecules  and  related  synthetic  molecules.  The  process  involves  in
using  a  single  molecule  first  and  then  a  group  of  molecule  on  a  given  interface.  The
interaction among the molecules in a given external stimuli will help us understanding the
communication among them.
4. Central Workshop
Central workshop is the central facility of Institute, consisting of various workshops
such as Welding shop, Carpentry shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, Foundry and Heat
treatment  shop  and  Machine  shop.  Undergraduate  Students  get  hands  on  experience  in
above sections by doing the job work and carrying out projects as part of their coursework
and  also  students  utilize  the  facilities for  fabrication  purpose  of  their  academic  projects.  It
also  supports  the  R&D  projects  of  the  institute  handled  by  various  Faculty  Members  and
Ph.D.  and  M.Tech.  Thesis  work  of  research  scholars  by  providing  them  assistance  in
fabrication of their research set-ups.
The following machines and equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1.  Welding fume extraction down draft table
2.  Multi process welding equipment
3.  Portable single phase MIG/MAG
4.  AC/DC welding equipment
5.  MIG/MAG welding equipment
6.  Treadle operated shearing Machine
7.  Hand operated Folding Machine
8.  Kaizen Muffle Furnace
9.  Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine
10. Motorized Circle cutting Machine
11. Hand operated Circle cutting Machine
12. Hydraulic shearing Machine
13. Portable Heating Plant
14. Portable hardening plant
15. Forging Heating Plant
16. Aluminium Melting Plant
17. Fitting Table
18. Mould Making Facility
19. Portable Tool Grinder
5. Chemical Biology Laboratory
The  Chemical  Biology  Laboratory  deploys  cellular  and  molecular  biology
approaches  to  explore  the  pathogenesis  of  cancer  and  other  neurodegenerative  diseases.
Given  the  interest in  neuronal  death, it  is no  wonder  that  this  lab  team  is interested  in  E3
ubiquitin  ligases  essential  for  quality  control  events  in  neuronal  survival.  Protein
ubiquitylation  is  highly  versatile,  ordered,  the  multistep  post  translation  modification
enzymatic  process  that  regulates  numerous  aspects  of  cell  physiology.  This  lab  team  has
been studying the role of such E3 ligases to find out the role of quality control E3 ubiquitin
ligases  in  maintenance  of  proteostasis  and  hence  playing  a  role  in  cellular  survival  and
death.  Such  important  biochemical  findings  may  contribute  to  innovative  therapeutic
approaches for the diseases associated with misfolded proteins.
Organisms  at  the  cellular  level  possess  a  well-established  protein  quality  control
mechanism which the lab team is trying to understand at present. The role of E3 ubiquitin
ligases was reported in such mechanisms so far. Our laboratory is dedicated to a qualitative
research in the field of protein quality control mechanisms. We have recently found that a
HECT domain containing E3 ubiquitin ligase E6-AP helps in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
diseases suppression through its association with the misfolded protein aggregates formed
by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support that an E3 ligase can have a capability to clear the
misfolded  protein  aggregation.  However,  while  appreciating  the  incredible  efficiency  of
cellular  systems,  we  must  recognize  the  crucial  role  of  chaperones  which  are  supposed  to
work  preferentially  compared  to  E3  ubiquitin  ligases  in  order  to  refold  the  misfolded
proteins, and hence conserving the energy utilized during the translation of those proteins.
Various examples made us think that we could explore the role of both the chaperones and
E3 ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are working
not only with E3 ubiquitin ligases but also with the chaperones and even in their functional
association to confer an efficient quality control mechanism to the cell.
6. Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students in
scientific methods that would solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding of the
matter.  This  is  a  multi-use  laboratory  and  provides  a  number  of  resources  to  assist
undergraduate,  graduate  and  Ph.D.  students  in  planning  their  professional  careers  after
completing their academic program at IIT Jodhpur.
This  laboratory  maintains  a  broad  spectrum  of  state-of-the-art  instrumentation
including  basic  laboratory  set  up  (for  organic,  inorganic,  organometallic  and  material
synthesis), Nitrogen, Oxygen and LPG gas line, Inert atmosphere boxes, vacuum line work,
fume  hood  pH,  conductivity,  BOD,  COD,  meters,  Rotary  evaporator,  Vacuum  pumps,
centrifuges,  High  pressure  reactor  system,  Chiller,  microbalances,  Orbital  Shaker,  GC,
HPLC  and  Radleys  ready  reactor.  In  the  academic  year  2012-2013,  the  lab  procured
equipment such as Polarimeter, Melting point Instrument, Solar Simulator, Digital Titrator,
Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery analysers.
A 500 MHz NMR spectrometer with solid state probe is an essential resource, whose
mission is to make a state-of-the-art high field NMR and methods available to researchers,
providing a place for them to pursue their projects and develop new methodologies in NMR
7. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out experiments
in  the  field  of  Control  Systems,  Microprocessor  and  DSP.  Broadly,  the  lab  includes  the
following experimental setup:
a. Control Systems
1.  Ball & Beam System from Quanser
2.  Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser
Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser
4.  Software include Scilab / MatLab
b. DSP Lab Equipment
c. Microprocessor Lab
8. Digital Language Laboratory
The  Digital  Language  Laboratory
provides  resources,  facility,  and  support
learning  to  the  entire  student  community
of  IIT  Jodhpur.  The lab is  the  multilingual
computing  and  assessment  center  of  the
team  explores  and
multimedia  technology  renders  a  more
authentic  experience  to  learning  a  foreign
language. Here, for language learning purposes one could seek recourse to technologies like
the  Internet  and  interactive  video,  audiovisual  techniques,  multi-modal  iconic  approach,
and speech recognition. The exercises include listening and comprehension, grammar-based
exercises, placement solutions, and mastery tests. The main features of this facility include
Smart  Class  Symposium  LL  from  Robotel  and  New  Dynamic  English  Learning  Program
from  Dyned  International.  All  the  facilities  at  the  Digital  Language  Laboratory  are
proficiency-oriented,  standard-based,  and  nurture  the  students’  enthusiasm  for  gaining
global exposure and proficiency in a foreign language.
9. Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory
Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory is well equipped with various mechanisms such
as  Motorized  Gyroscope  Apparatus,  Static  and  Dynamic  Balancing  Apparatus,  Universal
Governor Apparatus, Coriolis Component of Acceleration Apparatus, Epicyclic Gear Train
Apparatus, Cam Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal Vibration Apparatus, Stroboscope
and  Tachometer  10  in  helping  the  students  to  understand  the  behavior  of  the  various
mechanisms and forces acting on them.
In  addition,  the  laboratory  is  also  equipped  with  various  vibration  measuring
instruments  for  computing  the  vibration  characteristics  of  a  machine  or  structures  and
equipment  for  vibrating  the  machine  or  structures  in  order  to  finds  its  resonance
characteristics in various environmental conditions. Following equipment are available for
measuring and/or testing vibration characteristics of elements to structures.
10. Electro Mechanical (EM) Energy Conversion Laboratory
In  order  to  familiarize  students  to  Electrical  Machines  properties  &  characteristics,
IIT  Jodhpur  has  established  “Electro  Mechanical  Energy  Conversion  Laboratory”  and  has
continually  been  developing  the  potential  of  its  lab  facility.  In  this  lab,  state-of-the-art
“Electrical Engineering” facilitates the students to empower their potential by familiarizing
themselves  with  the  fundamental  of  electro-mechanical  energy  conversion  process,
including  several  practical  &  industrial  applications  of  machines  in  true  applicable
environment. This lab occupies conventional as well as modern equipment to fulfil the basic
and modern technological requirements with continual developing efforts.
11. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In this laboratory the students make and test their analog and digital circuits by using
all  kinds  of  circuit  components  like  diode,  transistor,  op-amps,  and  clocks.  The  lab  has
1.  Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent
2.  Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent
3.  Programmable Power Supply from Scientific
4.  6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
12. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur, in addition to serving
various  undergraduate  and  post-graduate  courses,  undertakes  research  in  the  areas  of
bioenergy  and  bioremediation.  Researchers  in  the  lab  investigate  on  waste  to  energy
conversion processes with an aim to develop sustainable biotechnological solutions to water
pollution  and  energy.  At  present,  successful  bioremediation  processes  for  nitrate  and
chromium(VI)  contaminated  wastes  have  been  developed.  Also,  research  is  underway  for
the development of low cost Microbial Carbon Capture cells for power generation and algae
cultivation. In addition to this, researchers in the lab have been successful in isolating novel
yeasts, the potential biodiesel producing candidates.
13. Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn about the following:
1.  Analyses and evaluation of experimental data
2.  Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data
3.  How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system
considering various technical aspects,  heat exchanger, thermal energy storage,
receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In  addition  to  the  above,  this  laboratory  aims  at  generating  innovative  ideas  in
students by promoting the design of experiments and small scale projects. At present in the
fluid  mechanics  laboratory  are  conducted  experiments  on  losses  in  pipes  (smooth/rough)
and fittings (e.g. valves, bends), comparison between different flow meters, particle image
velocimetry technique, Hot-wire anemometer, labscale sub-sonic wind tunnel for- pressure
distribution around a cylinder/air-foil, lift and drag balance, boundary layer development,
weather monitoring. Furthermore the lab provides training on standard software, such as,
CFAST for fire simulation.
Currently  the  Heat  Transfer  Laboratory  is  equipped  with  the  demonstration  of
various  thermometry  techniques,  heat  exchange  system,  ventilation  system,  Natural  and
forced  convection  system,  heat  conduction  unit  for  different  materials,  lab  and  industrial-
scale  solar  water  heater  system,  and  thermal  radiation  unit.  All  these  equipment  are
installed with respective software.
For  testing,  calibration  and  research  purpose  in  these  laboratories,  various
equipment  such  as  Laser  Doppler  Velocimeter  with  Particle  Analyzer,  pressure  and
temperature  calibration,  blower  with  variable  flow,  pressure  transducers,  differential
pressure  transducers,  turbine  test  rig,  turbo-machine  test  rig,  IC  engine  test  rig  etc.,  have
Moreover,  multi-purpose  test  set  up  is  being  indigenously  designed  and  the
components  /  sub-systems  involved  are  being  fabricated  locally.  This  system  aims  at
investigation  and  evaluation  of  solar  thermal  sub-systems  such  as  volumetric  air  receiver,
thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchange systems and their simultaneous operation.
Devices such as earth air heat exchange system, wind catcher, and air-cooled heat exchange
systems are being fabricated and tested for certain applications.
14. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Six  laboratories  are  being  set-up  under  the  MNRE  funded  project  entitled  as
“Establishment  of  Center  of  Excellence  in  Solar  Thermal  Research  and  Education  at  IIT
Jodhpur”.  High  Temperature  Solar  Thermal  Laboratory  is  one  of  these  specialized
laboratories. The aim of this laboratory is:
1.  Fundamental  aspects  of  fluid  flow  and  heat  transfer  related  problems,  like,  dust
2.  Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar thermal systems
Some  of  the  sub-systems  being  designed  and
analyzed in this laboratory are:
(a) Open  Volumetric  Air  Receiver  for  process
(b) Compact heat exchanger
(c)  Solar Convective Furnace
This  laboratory  includes  test  facility,  such  as,
Solar  Air  Tower  Simulator  (SATS)  facility,
advanced  research  grade  equipment  like  Laser
Doppler  Velocimetry.  SATS  facility  includes,
open volumetric air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchanger and is being
extended with solar convective furnace.
15. Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The  mission  of  Instrumentation  and  Communication  Laboratory  is  to  provide
platform for UG and PG students on research and hands-on learning in Measurement and
Automation  Technology.  The  state-of-the-art  facilities  at  this  laboratory  offer  innovative
research  opportunities  in  the  astronomical  space  of  communication  and  real  time
measurement  technology.  The  experienced  Lab  team  nurtures  students'  talent  in  research
and offers an opportunity for developing sophisticated measurement, test, control systems,
data analysis system and next generation communication technologies.
Students  also  develop  theoretical  and  practical  competence  in  (i)  building  baseband
communication    circuits,  (ii)  the  application  of  NI  LabVIEW  graphical  programming
software, (iii) the PXI based NI RF/Wireless measurement stand, (iv) evaluating NI WSNs
and  LabVIEW  software,  adjusting  a  software-defined  radio  system,  measuring  the
parameters  of  studied  antennas  and  (v)  the  operation  of  analog  modulation  schemes.  NI-
Lab  contains  software  and  hardware  subsystems  which  enable  rapid  prototyping  and
development of embedded systems for various applications.  Currently, this lab constitutes
the following setups:
1.  NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand
2.  Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard
3.  Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA,
4.  FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme
Development and Research
5.  Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand
6.  Wireless Sensor Networks Stand
7.  Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand
8.  Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand
9.  FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing
10. VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand
11. Fiber Optic Communication Stands
12. Network Based Manufacturing
13. USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless communication system for
physical layer design, record and playback, signal intelligence, algorithm validation
14. Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After three years of its formation, this lab has contributed immensely to the learning
and  research  activities  at  IIT  Jodhpur.  Communications  and  Networking  Lab,  Intelligent
Instrumentation,  System  Analysis  Techniques  and  Bio-Sensors  courses  are  being  offered
through  this  lab  for  both  graduate  and  undergraduate  students.  The  lab  has  provided  the
right  hardware  and  software  tools  for  many  industrial  consultancy  projects,  including  the
development of DRM/DRM+ IP for digital radio standards, Link budget design for Marine
environment,  DRFM  based  Radar  echo  simulator  and  Blind  Signal  Demodulator.  Other
projects  being  done  in  the  lab  are  development  of  affordable  wireless  video  transmission
systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee protocol development.
16. Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS/SQUID)
IIT Jodhpur has created an excellent facility in the field of material characterization.
Recently  an  additional  dimension  has  been  added  to  it  by  procuring  magnetic  property
measurement  system (MPMS).  MPMS (SQUID)  is  getting  installed in  coming few  months.
This  will  provide  a  wide  temperature  2  K  –  1000  K  range  for  both  DC  and  AC  magnetic
measurements  in  conjunction  with  field  dependent  magnetic  measurements.  Such
measurements will help to understand magnetic properties and associated spin dynamics in
17. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics Laboratory
The material testing lab of the  institute provides facilities to test samples of different
types of materials to find out their mechanical properties like modulus of elasticity, tensile
and  compressive  strength,  stress  strain  curve,  bending  properties,  hardness  etc.  The  lab  is
equipped with following test equipment:
1.  Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN
2.  Rockwell Tester
3.  Brinell Tester
4.  Vickers Tester
5.  Poldi Hardness Tester
6.  Portable hardness tester
7.  Material Testing and Solid Mechanics
18. Materials Analysis Laboratory
The  research  focuses  on  the  development  of  novel  materials  for  different
applications  including  materials  for  energy  generation  and  storage.  The  current  work
includes the development of solution processable CIGS compound semiconductor materials
for solar cell applications and transition metal oxide based materials for lithium ion batteries
and supercapacitor applications. The laboratory is equipped with synthesis of bulk and thin
films  techniques  such  as  sputtering,  sol-gel  process  assembly  etc.,  and  numerous
characterization techniques such as X-ray diffraction, Scanning electron microscope, Optical
spectroscopic techniques, LCR meter, ferroic measurement system for bulk samples etc.
In  addition,  the  group  is  also  focusing  on  the  development  of  multifunctional
materials for different applications such as solar selective coatings, ferroic materials for high
frequency  absorbing  system,  and  magnetic  particles  for  different  applications.  The
laboratory  is  equipped  with  state-of-the-art  facilities  to  carry  out  thermal  analysis,
electrochemical  analysis,  surface  morphology  studies,  separation techniques  for  chemicals,
electrical conductivity measurement devices, glove box etc.
19. Multimedia Laboratory
The  Media  Laboratory  provides  facilities  to  carry  out  work  related  to  E-learning,
image processing, and computer vision. The thrust areas of research in this lab are: Semantic
analysis  of  video/image  content,  video  surveillance,  human  motion  analysis,  document
image analysis, content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities include video
recording,  audio-video  digitization,  video  editing,  etc.  In  the  academic  year  2011-2012,  a
research on Indian sign language recognition using Kinect has been initiated.
1.  Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook.
2.  Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP
3.  Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
20. Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking  Technologies  Laboratory  has  been  started  functioning  in  the  Academic
Year 2011-2012. It aims at enabling undergraduate and graduate students, who pursue their
interest in the area of computer networks, to understand the concepts of computer networks
and work  with  contemporary  networking  equipment  in a  realistic  setting.  In addition,  the
lab aims at providing necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on advanced
topics,  such  as  wireless  mesh  networks,  sensor  networks,  communication  on  power  lines,
from computer networks. The activities that take place in this laboratory are:
1.  Prototyping  of  networking  hardware  (Example,  Ethernet  switch,  IPV4  router  etc.)
2.  Developing packet processors using “Click router” modular software framework.
3.  Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless networks, multi-
hop wireless mesh and sensor networks, power line communication networks, home
phone line networks.
4.  Studies  related  to  the  performance  analysis  of  various  protocols  over  on  different
5.  Development  of  novel  routing  algorithms,  transport  layer  mechanisms,  and  services
for next generation networks.
6.  Setting  up  planet-lab  infrastructure  (which will  essentially  become  part  of  the  global
distributed  computing  platform  created  over  the  Internet  by  connecting  over  500+
sites).  This  allows  the  students  and  researchers  not  only  to  understand  the  traffic
patterns  on  the  Internet  but  also  to  develop  new  technologies/applications  on  the
Internet  for  distributed  storage,  networking  mapping,  peer-to-peer  systems,  content
distribution service, and cloud computing.
21. Physics Laboratory
The  mission  of  the  Physics  laboratory  at  IIT  Jodhpur  is  to  provide  students  with
experiential  knowledge  in  basic  physics.  This  laboratory  has  state-of-the-art  facilities
including specific equipment and is currently offering different experiments in Mechanics,
Waves, Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics. Now the lab has facilities for experimenting with
Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, and Michelson Interferometer.
22. Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in the
area of power electronics based power conversion systems, control systems and drives. The
laboratory  facilitates  for  faculty  and  students  to  conduct  research  in  the  areas  power
converters  and  AC/DC  micro-grid.  The  laboratory  is  equipped  with  state-of-art  test  and
measurement  instruments,  converters,  power  supplies  and  programming  boards.  Major
equipment available in this lab are:
1.  High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000.
2.  DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B).
3.  Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B.
4.  Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32,
5.  Three phase inverter drive.
6.  Three phase inverter stacks.
7.  DC-DC converters.
8.  Differential currents Probes.
9.  Current clamps.
10.  Isolation Transformers.
11.  FPGA training kits and programming boards.
23. Protein Engineering Laboratory
The  Protein  Engineering  Laboratory  at  IIT  Jodhpur  is  undertaking  cutting  edge
research in developing biomaterials based on the understanding of structural and functional
properties  of  useful  proteins  such  as  collagen.  The  implications  of  the  research  could  also
extend towards development of effective biomedical devices and implants.
24. Renewable Energy Laboratory
To resolve most daunting challenge
of this world—energy needs—and also our
nation’s  heavy  reliance  on  fossil  fuels,
Renewable  Energy  Laboratory
promotes  rigorous  and  objective  empirical
research at IIT Jodhpur on issues related to
energy  and  environment.  REL  focuses  on
testing,  and  disseminating
renewable and efficient energy system. The
mission  of  REL
technologies  to  realize  their  full  potential
sustainable  development  in  industrial  and
developing  countries.  In  the  renewable  energy  field,  expert  faculty  and  students  at  this
Laboratory  are  currently  striving  to  create  an  innovative  system  to  efficiently  harness
energy  from  sunlight  and  wind  power.  Recently,  a  work  on  solar  and  wind  system  for
household development has been planned and our research effort at REL draws on ongoing
work  in  variety  of  fields,  including  energy  engineering,  and  environmental  risk  analysis.
REL  has  computer  interfaced  systems  and  approximately  30  students  can  work  at  a  time.
Students  are  the  greatest  resource  of  REL  and  IIT  Jodhpur  has  made  substantial
commitment to the area of renewable energy and been providing all required resources to
execute a viable plan and innovative research at REL. One aspect of the evolution of REL is
the development of collaborative partnership with other academic and industrial groups. In
the  near  future,  it  will  be  a  hub  for  training  and  public-private  sector  collaboration.
Recently, the lab has started a consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D India Pvt. Ltd., on
the  prototyping  of  microbial  fuel  cells.  In  addition,  the  lab  has  started  work  on  data
collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW in Rajasthan and
The Renewable Energy Laboratory uses the following equipment:
1.  Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent
magnets ~12V, Lamp board ~12V, Off grid inverter etc.
2.  PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell,
3.  Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with
solar altitude emulator, Solar charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V,
7Ah, Off grid inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4.  Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications
25. Robotics Laboratory
IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and research.
The infrastructure includes the following:
1.  Vicon Motion Tracking System
2.  Mobile Manipulator comprising of Barret
WAM ARM mounted on a PowerBot Mobile
3.  Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units
5.  Wheel Chair
6.  Force Plate
7.  Infrastructure for Mobile Robotics - Navigation, Path-planning, SLAM
8.  Dynamic and Kinematic Control problem, Redundancy Resolution, Inverse
Kinematics of Manipulators and Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing
9.  GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
26. Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE)
has selected the IIT Jodhpur campus site as one of their solar
radiation  centers.  Solar  radiation  measurement  (Global  and
Direct),  Humidity,  Ambient  temperature,  Rain  gauge  and
wind speed measurement are carried out at this center and the
data  is  transmitted  via  a  satellite  link  to  the  MNRE  nodal
center C-WET in Chennai. The instruments in this laboratory
are  powered  by  a  couple  of  solar  panels.  The  data  collected
from  this  center  enables  the  solar  resource  assessment
required  for  the  setting  up  of  solar  thermal  and  solar
photovoltaic power plants as outlined in the Jawaharlal Nehru
National Solar Mission (JNNSM).
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care facilities to Students, Faculty  and
Staff  Members  of  the  Institute,  at  its  residential  campuses.  The  Health  Center  has  five
doctors  and  five  supporting  staff  members.  Both  the  Residential  Campuses  have  Health
Centers  for  providing  routine  health  services.  Due  to  geographical  locations  of  the  two
Campuses and the type of the residents, Health Center at GPRA Campus provides services
to  the  patients  round  the  clock,  while  medical  services  are  available  at  BSNL  Campus  for
limited hours in the evening, typically from 5 pm to 10 pm. In addition to the availability of
medical  services  at  Residential  Campuses,  medical  assistance  is  available  at  Academic
Campus.  This  assistance  is  normally  provided  from  3  pm  to  4.30  pm,  when  laboratory
sessions  are  in  full  swing  and  medical  assistance  may  be  required.  The  Institute  has  its
ambulance services available round-the-clock.
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city of
Jodhpur.  Two  of  these  hospitals  have  specializations  in  ophthalmology  and  one  in
orthopedic, and the remaining two hospitals are the best known general purpose hospitals
in the city. For specialized medical attention doctors at our Health Centers refer patients to
one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a Medical College and
three hospitals run by Government of Rajasthan. Also, the city All India Institute of Medical
Sciences  (AIIMS),  which  is  nearly  12  km  GPRA  Campus  and  nearly  5  km  from  BSNL
Campus.  Also,  the  Institute  has  constituted  a  Medical  Board  consisting  of  Senior  Doctors
from  the  Medical  College  and  the  AIIMS;  advice  is  taken  for  enhancement  of  medical
services of the Health Centers and in critical medical cases. IIT Jodhpur has empanelled two
hospitals in Jaipur. These two hospitals are accredited by National Accreditation Board for
Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals as per the need of the
The Health Center coordinates and supervises the treatment of students, employees,
and  their  dependents  during  hospitalization  in  other  hospitals  that  are  empaneled  by  the
Institute, to provide in-patient care. Also, an ambulance is available in the GPRA Residential
Campus for attending to any medical emergencies.
On  request,  the  Health  Center  extends  its  health  care  services  to  Institute  visitors
during  their  stay  in  the  residential  campus.  Under  emergency  circumstances  medical
services  are  also  extended  to  the  non-IIT  Jodhpur  community  residents  in  the  residential
like  patient  records,  medicine  procurement/disbursement,  assets,
equipment of Health Center are all computerized.
Sports  and  games  facilities  to  students  are  provided  at  four  places,  namely,  the
hostel premises, academic campus, playground of Vidhyashram International School, and in
the  new  campus  area  of  Jai  Narayan  Vyas  University.  Conveyance  is  taken  care  of  by  the
Office of Logistics in the Institute. Students also enjoy a gymnasium facility at the residential
An  SC/ST  and  OBC  Cell  for  ensuring  the  proper  utilization  and  adaptation  of
reservation policies and guidelines issued by the Government of India, is functional at IIT
Jodhpur. The Cell  deals with  matters related to grievances received from SC/ST and OBC
employees  and  students  in  the  Institute.  The  Cell  acts  as  a  communicator  between  the
Institute  and  the  Ministry  of  Human  Research  and  Development  in  matters  related  to
SC/ST  and  OBC  students  and  employees  in  the  Institute.  IIT  Jodhpur  has  adopted  the
reservation  policy  while  selecting  the  students  for  MCM  scholarship.  In  addition,
a substantial number  of SC students  whose  total  family income  is limited  to  Rs.  4.50  lakhs
per  annum,  are  deriving  the  benefit  of  Central  Sector  Scholarship  of  Top  Class  Education
available from the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.
The  “Student  Gymkhana”,  IIT  Jodhpur,  is  divided  into  five  "societies",  and  in  turn
each  society  is  divided  into  several  clubs.  These  societies  fulfil  the  varied  interests  of  the
students and contribute to their holistic development. These six societies are:
(1) Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society,
(2) Media, Arts and Design (MAD) Society,
(3) Nurturing-Understanding Technology and Science (NUTS) Society,
(4) Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations (SAGE) Society, and
(5) Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment, Social (WAVES) Society.
Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society
The Academic, Research and Management (ARA) Society is a platform for all activities and
initiatives related to Academics and Research. It encourages academic and research activities
in  Institute  among  students.  Also,  the  society  works  towards  effective  involvement  of
students in the decision making. The Mission of the ARM Society is:
(a)  To strengthen Student-Faculty interaction and take them beyond only formal association;
(b)  To serve as a platform for students to undertake research projects under Faculty Members,
and  to  create  an  environment  of  cognizance  in  the  student  community pertaining  to  the
real-life problems; and
(c)  To  organize  various  technical  meets  and  seminars  to  expose  students  to  the  recent
discoveries and technological advancements and the innumerable opportunities that they
The functions and responsibilities of the ARM Society are:
(a)  To help individual students address their specific academic concerns;
(b)  To  coordinate  with  the  centralized  academic  facilities  such  as  Computer  Centre,  Library
and Reading Room;
(c)  To support the Senate of the Institute on matters such as revision of academic curriculum;
(d) To share concerns of the students on academic and research matters.
The society deals with all matters regarding public relations and management of the
various activities of all the societies of Students' Gymkhana which take place in the Institute. It
helps  in  enhancing  one’s  personality,  management  skills,  public  speaking,  writing  and
coordination  with  student  colleagues,  towards  overall  development  of  students.  The
following clubs operate under the society:
(a)  Promotions Club
The Club writes content as well as reports for various Intra and Inter collegiate fests,
special events and seminars, which are held throughout the year. Also, it coordinates for
the content to be published in local media.
(b) Public Speaking and Personality Development Club
Public  speaking  is  one  very  important  aspect  which  shows  the  personality  of  an
individual. The club organizes sessions to hone public speaking skills, increase confidence
levels and makes students proficient in Public Speaking.
(c)  Entrepreneurship Club
The club collaborates with the E-cells of other institutes and conducts various seminars
and useful activities related to entrepreneurship.
(d) Resource Management Club
The main work of this club is to manage resources during various inter and intra-level
(e)  Finance and Case-Studies Club
Many  individuals  are  faced  with  investing  and  financing  decisions  at  some  point  in
their life. Having a firm grasp over financial matters aids them in making those decisions.
The club helps students undertake Case Studies which help to see how the complexities of
real life situations influence decision making.
(f)  Leadership Enhancement and All-round Development (LEAD) Club
This initiative aims at enhancing the overall personality and soft skills of the students,
and  prepares  them  for  the  professional  world.  Workshops  organized  by  professionals
skilled  in  personality  grooming,  resume  writing,  personal  interview,  etc.  Group
discussions, mock interviews and public-speaking sessions are conducted to train students
for  interviews  and  help  in  their  personality  development.  Students  get  a  real-world
exposure, while getting expert guidance not only from professionals, but also from senior
Media, Arts, and Design (MAD) Society
Creativity is more than just being different. Anybody can plan being weird; that’s easy.
What’s  hard  is  to  be  simple.  Making  the  simple,  awesomely  simple,  that’s  creativity.  The
society makes people develop their imagination, their talent; teaching them the advancement
in  technology  to  enhance  their  knowledge  in  their  field  of  interest.  The  society  has  its
independent activities, workshops and competitions under the following areas of interest:
(a)  Animatrons (The Animation Club)
The  Club  teaches  students  to  bring  the  animator  out  of  them,  via  workshops  by
professionals and its own team. With the blend of Stop Motion Animation and Software
Animation,  the  Club  moves  towards  paper  animation,  2D  and  3D  graphics  animation,
pixilation, flash light animation.
(b) Ateliers (The Fine Arts Club)
To play with colours is the passion of this Club. Training is imparted to students via
workshops  and  competitions  in  fine  or  decorative  arts.  We  organize  a  lot  of  activities  of
interest like painting, sketching, glass etching, face and T-shirt Painting, wax carving, and
graffiti workshops. This Club gives shape to various festivals of IIT Jodhpur.
(c)  Designerds (The Designing Club)
The Club designs logos, posters, newsletters, T-shirts, etc. The Club has given some of
the  best  designers,  who  can  train  with  software,  like  Adobe  Photoshop,  Indesign  and
Illustrator.  The  Club  members  excel  in  graphic  designing  which  promotes  thoughts  and
imagination. Also, the club has won competitions in Mood Indigo – IIT Bombay.
(d) Frame-X (The Film Making and Video Editing Club)
The  Club  makes  videos,  record  and  edits  them.  The  Club,  constantly  and  actively,
takes  part  in  various  Inter-College  Fests  presenting  short  films  or  documentaries  which
have  gained  popularity.  The  Club  members  use  the  most  sophisticated  HandyCams,
GoPro  cameras  dealing  with  software,  like  Windows  Movie  Maker,  Sony  Vegas  and
Adobe After Effects.
(e)  Porta Talkies (The Movie Screening Club)
The Club is responsible for screening of movies, matches and on demand talks.
(f)  Shutterbugs (The Photography and Photo-Editing Club)
The  Club  consistently  holds  its  workshops  on  Photoshop  and  provides  hands  on
experience on technically sound semipro DSLR Cameras. The Club holds responsibility of
all media coverage of student activities IIT Jodhpur.
Nurturing-Understanding Technology and Science (NUTS) Society
With  the  thought  “Imagination  is  more  important  than  knowledge”,  the  Science  and
Technology Society (NUTS) of IIT Jodhpur provides students an opportunity to think beyond
the conventional boundaries of science, to realize their dreams and develop the technology for
the next generation. The following clubs operate under this society:
(a)  Aeromodelling Club
The Aeromodelling Club is a group for aviation and Aeromodelling enthusiasts in the
Institute.  The  Club  provides  students  an  opportunity  to  make  rockets,  gliders,  planes,
hovercrafts  and  fly  them  up  in  the  air.  The  activities  of  the  Club  include  lectures  and
workshops on various Aeromodelling and aviation topics and working on small projects.
(b) Automobile Club
The  Club  promotes  students  to  design  and  make  their  own  car.  The  Club  has
developed an eco-friendly manual cum electric driven vehicle. The Club is associated with
an  international  body,  Society  of  Automotive  Engineers  (SAE),  and  encourages  and
prepares students to participate in national level competitions such as Effi Cycle and Baja.
(c)  Astronomy Club
The Club organizes regular lectures and discussions to help students develop a better
understanding of those astronomy phenomenons in nature. The Club made a record at the
Inter IIT-Tech Meet 2014 by detecting 72 objects in the overnight observatory competition
“The Messier Marathon”.
(d) Electronics Club
The Club makes students familiar with electronic circuits, and teaches them skills like
working  on  mini  computers  (such  as  beagle  bone,  Raspberry  pie).  Also,  the  club  makes
students  familiar  with  analog  as  well  as  digital  electronics  through  various  lectures  and
competitions organized throughout the year.
(e)  Robotics Club
The  Club  conducts  regular  lectures  and  workshops  to  provide  students  a  hand  on
experience on technologies, such as DTMF, image processing, and motion sensing. Today
the Club is an active platform for students to display and develop their practical machine-
building skills and knowledge.
(f)  Programming and Web Designing Club
With  regular  lectures,  competitions  and  winter  coding  camp,  the  Club  provides
students  a  chance  to  learn  from  people  around  them  and  improve  their  coding  skills.
Students get a chance to sit with a group of like-minded people and prepare for various
national and international level coding competitions.
(g)  Science Club
The Club provides students an opportunity to solve the Rubik’s Cube, make their own
angry  bird  station,  and  play  with  air  gun,  Rube  Goldberg  etc.  The  activities  of  this  club
tests students’ imagination skills and help to improve it.
Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations (SAGE) Society
Sports  are  known  for  producing  the  most  remarkable  athletes,  colourful  characters,
influential leaders and memorable heroes. IIT Jodhpur Sports and Games Society reflects the
same spirit of introducing sporting activities to the campus community. This society aims to
promote sports and exercise in the true spirit of sportsmanship and motivate students to work
with team spirit. The Society strives and endeavours to inculcate and introduce this essential
activity as a part of the routine in every student's life. All efforts are made to bring out and
encourage the sports person in each one under the guidance of professional coaches and with
best sporting facility.
Individuals can be strong on their own, but they are much stronger in a team. Victory
achieved  alone  can  be  sweet,  but  there  is  nothing  sweeter  than  sharing  that  moment  with
fellow members.  One of the rare times in life one learns to play with his friends and some of
his enemies, and yet learns to respect each one of them for the innate respect of the sport. That
is the essence of introducing sports in a student's life to instill the qualities of vigour, sacrifice
and overall sportsman spirit. The society organizes the Institute team that participates in Inter
IIT  Sports  Meet  held  annually  at  any  one  of  the  IITs.  Inter-IIT  Championship  title  is  much
coveted in the whole IIT Jodhpur family. It is the place where every sports student is given the
opportunity  to  showcase  his/her  talent  in  respective  sports  and  to  wear  the  jersey  and  run
around  the  grounds  representing  the  glorified  history  of  respective  IITs  along  with  the
responsibility  to  continue  the  legacy.  Every  Inter-IIT  player  has  this  unique  urge  to  win  the
game for the pride and the honour of the Institute, for the blood, and the tears and the sweat
to  make  a  team  and  to  earn  the  spot.  The  Institute  has  representation  in  the  sports,  like
Aquatics,  Athletics,  Badminton,  Basketball,  Cricket,  Football,  Lawn  Tennis,  Squash,  Table
Tennis, Volleyball, and Weightlifting at Inter IIT Sports Meet.
The  Institute has  many sporting  events  lined  up  throughout  the  year,  which  act  as  a
platform  to  showcase  your  talent  and  to  keep  the  adrenaline  levels  racing.  Every  year  the
council  organizes  an  Intra-Institute  Sports  Festival  called  “KRIDANSH”.  This  sports  fest  is
designed  to  attract  mass  participation.  It  sees  the  best sporting  talents  in  the  Institute  pitted
against each other to fight for the glory of their respective branches. It has games like tug of
wars, Kho-Kho and Kabaddi, along with regulars.
In addition to sports, the society arranges several adventure tours and coordinates the
Carrom Club, the Chess Club, the Skating Club, the Yoga Club and the Joggers Club.
Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment, and Social (WAVES) Society
WAVES  is  the  fountainhead  of  all  cultural  activities  in  the  institute.  It  provides
students  opportunities  to  pursue  their  passion  for  performing  arts  and  in  honing  their
aesthetic  sensibilities.  Under  WAVES,  there  are  five  Clubs,  which  function  throughout  the
(a)  Dance Club
The  Dance  Club  organises  activities  ranging  from  Intra  Institute  to  Inter-Collegiate
events with a special emphasis on workshops on different dance forms.  The team, with
name  'dEFEATtHEbEAT',  has  participated  in  different  college  festivals  across  country,
including Chaos (IIMA) and Mood Indigo (IITB) and has also been selected in Indian Hip
Hop Dance Championship auditions.
(b) Music Club
The  Music  Club  is  all  about  passion  and  the  platform  you  need  to  showcase  them.
Spanning from the students' band  performances for freshers, to the live stages of college
festivals,  Music  Club  brings  opportunities  for  all  the  interested  students.  The  major
highlights  include  Unplugged  Nights  and  the  Musical  Extravaganza.  Apart  from  these,
music learning sessions are conducted for the beginners.
(c)  Quiz Club
The  main  aim  of  the  Club  is  to  generate  interest  in  quizzing  as  a  fun  activity  that
everyone can indulge in and at the same time gain some handful amount of knowledge.
The  Club  organizes  interesting  Quiz  contests/sessions  throughout  the  year  to  expose
students  to  the  artistic  world  of  Quizzing  and  provide  a  platform  to  contest  at  several
national and intra-collegiate quizzes.
(d) Drama Club
The Club, also known as “DRAMEBAAZ”, performs a variety of plays which are both
didactic  and  simultaneously  entertaining.  Nukkad  performance  is  the  highlight  of  the
Republic  and  Independence  Day celebrations  in the  Institute,  and  is  quite  applauded  by
the audience, leaving them awestruck every time. Also, it performs stage plays.
(e)  Literature Club
The  Club  works  on  the  vision  to  explore  a  whole  new  world  of  books,  belles-letters
and the magic of words. The Club is not all about writing, but hosts fun events like Jam,
Shout,  Hurdles,  and  Debates.  Language  is  no  bar;  we  have  both  Hindi  and  English
(f)  SPIC MACAY Club
The  Society  for  the  Promotion  of  Indian  Classical  Music  And  Culture  Among  Youth
(SPIC  MACAY)  is  a  society  that  helps  protect  and  popularize  our  rich  Indian  heritage.
SPIC MACAY IIT Jodhpur Chapter was formalized in the year 2012.
The Student Gymkhana of the Institute organizes events with dual purpose. On the
one side, these events help engage students in creative work during their leisure hours and
thereby build skills and interests in them. And, on the other side, these events help students
to self-organise themselves and provide platforms for others to excel.
The events organized by the Student Gymkhana can be seen in two streams, namely:
1. Inter-Institute Festivals and Tournaments; and
2. Intra-Institute Festivals and Championships.
The students were successful in nurturing a culture filled with energy and initiative.
They  have  organized  events  which  served  as  a  medium  of  communication  and  bonding
amongst themselves. Major festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali, Sankranti, Eid and Holi
were  celebrated  with  great  enthusiasm.  Sports  activities  were  also  regularly  conducted  to
encourage  sportsmanship,  which  were  supported  by  the  Faculty  Members.  The  following
are some of the major student activities that had taken place in the campus in the year 2014-
Varchas is the inter-collegiate sports festival of IIT Jodhpur. In 2014, it was organized
from 30 October to 2 November. Varchas celebrates the spirit of sportsmanship and serves
as a platform to showcase countless hours of perspiration put in by college teams to achieve
excellence  in  sports.  Varchas  was  first  conducted  in  the  year  2011,  with  a  vision  of
promoting  sports  among  the  colleges  of  India,  and  providing  the  athletes  in  India,  a
platform to showcase their talent.
Competitions  are  held  in  the  fields  of  football,  cricket,  table  tennis,  lawn  tennis,
badminton,  squash,  volleyball,  basketball  and  athletics  in  national  level  stadiums  of
Jodhpur. Varchas promotes healthy competition and is a great opportunity for the teams to
prove their mettle in their respective sports.
Moreover, belonging to the educated core of the country, the students of IIT Jodhpur
try to fulfil their social obligation through  “Soch -The Social Aspect of Varchas”. Soch is a
platform where the students take up pertinent social issues and try to find possible solutions
through  discussions  and  debates;  spread  awareness  and  conduct  drives  to  involve  people
spanning across varied backgrounds. An attempt is made to create a profound social impact
for the amelioration of the society.
In 2014, Soch team put their best foot forward to spread awareness about cleanliness
in the society.
The major events organized as part of Soch were:
(a)  Awaaz:  A  panel  discussion  was  conducted  with  a  great  contribution  from  some
renowned speakers and students from all over the city of Jodhpur.
(b) Intra and Inter School Competitions: To understand the outlook of younger generation
who  are  tomorrow’s  responsible  citizens,  a  visit  was  undertaken  to  some  schools  in
Jodhpur. Competitions like drawing, essay writing, were conducted to get a reflection of
their thoughts and ideas regarding cleanliness.
(c)  Cross Country Marathon: It was organized on the last day of the festival in Jodhpur city
with  a  motive  to  spread  awareness  about  cleanliness  in  the  society.  An  overwhelming
response was received from the people and athletes from across the state of Rajasthan.
(d) Pronite: Apart from sportsmanship and social aspects, a pronite was organized to let the
sportsmen refresh themselves. “The Local Train”, an upcoming band performed in the
IGNUS  is  IIT  Jodhpur’s  Annual  Techno–Social  Cum  Cultural  Festival.  In  these  six
years  of  its  existence  it  has  witnessed  a  footfall  of  colleges  from  all  across  the  country
making IGNUS a much awaited spectacle every year.
The fest comprises of an array of cultural events, activities and competitions which
keep  the  fest  full  of  life  and  zest.  Ignus  has  created  an  unmatched  aura  of  Science  and
Technology spectacle at the campus of IIT Jodhpur.
As  a  part  of  the  social  responsibility,  IGNUS  has  initiated  a  social  campaign,
“PRAKRITI”  to  ensure  sustainable  development  of  the  society  by  conducting  various
campaigns, competitions and exhibitions in various schools and colleges. Also adding to the
fun are the buzzing informals like city wide treasure hunt, “Breakthrough”, which is one of
the only event of its kind to take place in Jodhpur.
In  its  sixth  edition,  IGNUS  scaled  new  heights  by  collaborating  with  big  brands.
Javed  Ali  and  Gajendra  Verma  performed  on  the  two  pronites  organised  during  the  fest.
Events  like  Clash  of  Bands  and  Antarang  (Fashion  Show)  were  the  other  highlights.
Workshops were organized by professionals from different companies, to provide students
with a technical exposure to current topics including Cloud Computing, Ethical Hacking.
IIT  Jodhpur  Student  Gymkhana  hosts  Intra-Institute  Festivals  for  its  own  student
community. They are:
Spandan is the Intra-Institute cultural fest of IIT Jodhpur, usually the first fest of the
session.  It  draws  an  enthusiastic  crowd,  eager  to  portray  their  talents  in  the  cultural
arena. Versatility in the various categories is extensive, with competitions organized in
fields, like drama, dance, singing, literature, photography events, informals and fashion
show.  Three  days  of  Spandan  awakens  the  whole  campus  leaving  the  students  to
prepare all night. Spandan is one of the first public occasions to take place in the year,
and  hence  it  brings  together  students  from  all  years  to  interact  with  each  other.
Participation  with  zeal  and  showcasing  the  hidden  creativity  tamed  inside  an
individual, are the motives of the fest.
Nimble, the Intra-College technical fest provides a platform to the techno buds of the
Institute to show their hidden talent. Nimble comprises of four action packed days, filled
with  a  great  variety  of  tech  and  science  events  ranging  from  intense  mind  boggling
events (such  as  robotics,  electronics  and  programming)  to  fun filled  events  (like  angry
bird,  quizzes,  and  crypto)).  Apart  from  the  events,  talks  are  organized  by  eminent
personalities  in  the  field  of  Science  and  Technology,  to  motivate  students  to  work
harder, as there is no end to discoveries and inventions.
Kalakriti is a mixed bag of fun-filled competitions, interesting workshops and back-
to-back  movie  screenings.  “Because  everything  you  can  imagine  is  real!”  :  this  line
wakes up the dormant talent amongst students and the output is sudden burst of colors.
With a multitude of events ranging from Fine Arts and Clay Modelling, to Photography
and  Video  Editing,  ‘Kalakriti’  witnesses  huge  participation  from  designers  and  non-
designers alike. Events like ‘Scribble Day’ brings together the entire final year batch of
students, whom all the other students bid adieu and leave a farewell message or graffiti
on  a  common  piece  of  cloth  given  to  them.  A  great  way  to  bring  smile  on  everyone’s
face, ‘Kalakriti’ succeeds in spreading joy, unity and togetherness in the small tight-knit
community of ours.
Kridansh is organized to give sports enthusiasts a chance to pursue their passion in
sports.  Matches  are  organized  both  outdoor  and  indoor,  such  as  Gully  Cricket,  Street
Football  and  Single  Court  Basketball,  Chess,  Carroms,  Badminton,  Table  Tennis,  and
Swimming.  Full-fledged  dedication  from  participants  and  organizers  makes  Kridansh
one of the liveliest events of the year.
Three  of  our  B.Tech.  students  as  mentioned  below  have  obtained  DAAD  Working
Internship in Science and Engineering (WISE) scholarship for 2015.
Jinank Jain, III Year B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) Student,
2.  Navneet Mittal, III Year B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) Student, and
3.  Manish Soni, III Year B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering) Student.
The  prime  objective  of  the  team  is  to  organize  the  Orientation  Program.  This  is
especially tailored to bring the freshers up to speed with life in Institute, while maintaining
a homely feel, and gently enabling the transition into this Institute. The Counseling Service
has  been  an  integral  part  of  the  Institute  since  its  inception.  Every  year,  it  strives  hard  to
ensure that every student gets to know IITJ at its most intricate levels, and absorb all that the
Institute has  to  offer.  Further,  the  Counseling  Service  Team  takes  care  of  special  language
needs that some students might face during this time. It spares no effort in this, and work
towards making this transition memorable throughout their lives.
The Counseling Service Team consists of a Faculty Advisor with 30 students (called
Student Guides) bestowed to work for welfare of students. A Student Guide is the backbone
of the team, with every guide taking 8-10 freshers under his/her vision and guidance. The
Student  Guide  works  towards  helping  the  student  adjusts  well  in  the  hostel  and  in  his
academic life. The Student Guide keeps in continuous touch with the student and his/her
family.  The  team  ensures  that  not  only  the  student,  but  his/her  parents  too  get  the
opportunity to interact with the Student Guide, to maintain a healthy relationship. As part
of this Counseling, it is the duty of the team to promote development of the student in all
three aspects, namely:
For this purpose, voluntary, confidential and free counselling service is offered for a
wide range of issues that include:
1.  Academic support: Providing information about the different academic programs of the
Institute, imparting efficient time management skills and study skills;
2.  Personal:  Overcoming  homesickness,  adjusting  to  the  new  environment  and  related
3.  Counselling advocacy: Psycho-education and referral services to students;
4.  Interaction with the Institute and the existing body of students; and
5.  Encouraging students to discover their extra-curricular interests/hobbies.
Counselling service also focuses on the concerns and difficulties of the students by
providing  personal  guidance  to  deal  with  problems  arising  during  their  college  life  at  the
Institute. The following activities are undertaken by the Counseling Services team:
1.  Maintaining the Institute as a ragging free campus;
2.  Organizing  “Orientation  Program”  every  year,    for  the  sophomore  batch  so  as  to
make them acquainted with the culture of IIT Jodhpur;
3.  Organizing workshops related to:
(a) Career counselling,
(b) Stress management,
(c)  Time management,
(d) Health care and hygiene,
(e) Vocational training,
(f)  Relationship problems,
(g) Coping with homesickness and
(h) Addiction and others;
4.  Conducting motivational talks by eminent speakers;
5.  Addressing the academic problems of the students by conducting:
(a) English language sessions for students from vernacular background, and
(b) Basic Information Technology (IT) skill building sessions etc.;
6.  Organizing  interaction  building  events  amongst  students  of  different  batches,  and
with faculty members etc.; and
7.  Individually attending to problems of students with poor academic performance.
From  2014  onwards,  Counseling  Service  launched  Campus  Mentoring  System.  A
group of students are associated with one Faculty Member and one Staff Member, who in
turn act as the Mentors of the students.
Student Placement Cell
The Office of Student Placements (OSP) is run and managed by the students in sync
with the official authorities, thereby taking care of the placement and internship procedures.
The students coordinate the job of contacting various companies, their interaction with the
students, arranging pre-placement talks, tests, and interviews.
In  2014-15,  companies  in  core  engineering,  information  and  communication
technology,  and  banking  sector,  government  and  public  sector  organizations  have  visited
IIT Jodhpur for placements.
Total 99 of our students i.e., 93 B.Tech. Students and 6 M.Tech. Students, have been
placed with different companies in the year 2014-15. Their details of 2014-15 are:
B.Tech. Undergraduate Students
Number of Students Selected per
Aasaanjobs Pvt. Ltd.
C42 Engineering India Pvt. Ltd.
Future Supply Chain Solutions Ltd.
Girnar Software Pvt. Ltd.
Havells India Ltd.
JSW Energy Ltd.
Maxheap Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Misys Software Solutions (I) Pvt. Ltd.
Mu Sigma Business Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
Nagarro Software Pvt. Ltd.
Tata Consultancy Services
Tata Motors Ltd.
Tescra Software Pvt. Ltd.
Voylla Retail Pvt. Ltd.
M. Tech. Postgraduate Students
Number of Students
Selected per Branch
Misys Software Solutions Pvt.
Nagarro Software Pvt. Ltd.
Tata Consultancy Services
Tescra Software Pvt. Ltd.
The Office of Alumni Relations of the Institute works for the alumni of the Institute,
no matter where the alumni live. The Office is a canvas of collective experiences and shared
memories. We urge the Alumni to share with us your stories of both struggle  and success.
As  brand  ambassadors  of  the  Institute  and  torch  bearers  of  change,  this  special  bond
between the Alumni and the Institute, should be the catalyst for valuable exchange between
the Institute and the big-wide world.
The  Office  of  Alumni  Relations  is  managed  by  the  Alumni  Relations  Committee,
consisting of two Faculty Members and four Students.
All  students  completing  any  specific  degree  program  at  IIT  Jodhpur  become  Life
Members with the Office of Alumni Relations and no fee is associated with the membership.
The  Alumni  of  IIT  Jodhpur  living  in  Delhi-Gurgaon-Noida  region  have  come
together  on  16  February  2015  at  India  International  Center,  New  Delhi.  They  are  in  the
process of registering the IIT Jodhpur Alumni Association.
List of Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
IIT  Jodhpur  has,  as  on  31  March  2015,  a  total  of  769  students  registered  in  various
programs  offered  by  the  Institute.  The  table  below  gives  the  break-up  of  the  registered
students against the programs.
Program  Year of
Following  are  lists  of  students  registered  in  various  programs  offered  by  the
Institute, detailed according to the Centers and Branches of the various programs.
Sl. No.   Roll No.
PG201081502  Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit
PG201082502  Deepak Kumar Chhangani
Vikas Pratap Singh
Vikash Chandra Janu
Center / Department
Surendra Singh Barala
PG201182003  Heena Rathore
Puneet Kumar Jain
PG201182006  Ram Niwash Mahia
PG201182007  Ravi Raj Choudhary
PG201281002  Dharmesh Kumar
Shejale Kiran Prakash
PG201282002  Deepak Bharti
PG201282003  Giriraj Vyas
PG201282006  Onkar Krishna
PG201282007  Rakesh Kanji
PG201282009  Suresh Dahiya
PG201283001  Anoopa Joshi
PG201283003  Manvendra Sharma
PG201283005  Parvinder Singh
PG201283006  Pradumn Kumar Pandey
PG201283007  Rakesh Kumar
PG201283008  Ranveer Singh
PG201283009  Vinay Pratap Singh
Aditya Raw Gautam
PG201381002  Goutam Kumar Gupta
PG201381003  Om Prakash Mahela
PG201381004  Prakhar Nigam
PG201382002  Prachi Budania
PG201382003  Rajnish Kumar
PG201382005  Vipin Joshi
PG201383001  Anjali Singh
PG201382002  Anurag Sahu
PG201383002  Dipti Trivedi
PG201383005  Raj Kumar Satankar
PG201383006  Shraddha Choudhary
PG201383501  Deepak Kumar
PG201383502  Dileep Kumar
PG201383503  Manish Raghav
PG201383504  Satendra Pal Singh
PG201383506  Vishal Sharma
PG201384002  Ankisha Vijay
PG201384003  Anuj Kumar Bharti
PG201384004  Arun Kumar Upadhyay
PG201384005  Ayeman Amanullah
PG201384006  Bhubanesh Rathore
PG201384007  Kriti Dubey
PG201384008  Megha Singh
PG201384009  Nidhi Sharma
PG201384010  Rahul Badhwar
Rakhi N. K.
PG201384012  Ridhi Aggarwal
Sachin Kumar Vyas
Bibin G Anand
PG201384014  Vibhuti Joshi
Erum Gull Naz
Ajay Kumar Mahato
Ram Niwas Verma
Phadatare Hanmant Pandurang  ME
Javid Ahmad Naikoo
Vijendra Singh Bhati
Brajesh Kumar Shukla
Ph.D. Students registered under "Visvesvaraya Ph.D. Scheme for Electronics and IT"
Sl. No.   Roll No.
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2012
Sl. No.  Roll No
PG201271001  Avadhesh Kumar Sharma
PG201271002  Balram Choudhary
PG201271003  Gurveer Singh
PG201271005  Rattandeep Singh
PG201271006  Veenu Kumari
PG201271007  Vinay Vaishnav
PG201271008  Zeeshan Ahmed
PG201271009  Sandeep Gupta
PG201272001  Ammar Adil
PG201272003  Gagandeep Singh
PG201272004  Hiteshi Jain
PG201272005  Kulkarni Siddharth Sadanand
PG201272006  Manjunath Bj
PG201272007  Naresh Kumar Verma
PG201272009  Satyam Saxena
Shinde Neha Naresh
PG201273001  Adarsh Kumar Misra
PG201273002  Brajesh Kumar Shukla
PG201273004  Saloni Sardana
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2013
Sl. No.  Roll No
Arka Ujjal Dey
Sumit Kumar Paliwal
PG201373006  Mathew Alexander
Nishith V. Oze
PG201373010  Mahaveer Meel
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2014
Sl. No.  Roll No
Piyush Kumar Jaiswal
Raj Singh Parihar
Vishwa Deepak Kumar
Amit Kumar Gangwar
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2011
Sl. No.   Roll No.
Jitendra Kumar Chaudhary
Jitendra Singh Garhwal
UG201110001  Abhishek Saini
UG201110002  Amit Raj
UG201110003  Apurv Gupta
UG201110004  Ashish Kumar
UG201110005  Banoth Surya Prasad
UG201110006  Debashish Ghatak
UG201110007  Deven Bhooshan
UG201110009  Hari Om Gaur
UG201110011  Hemraj Kumawat
UG201110014  Kalpnath Rao
UG201110015  Kankanti Nithin Veer Reddy
UG201110017  Kuchana Maharshi Devaraj
UG201110019  Mayank Agrawal
UG201110020  Mayank Mittal
UG201110022  Pitta Divya Shree
UG201110023  Praneeth A. S.
UG201110024  Prashant Rastogi
UG201110025  Ravi Kumar Meena
UG201110026  Revti Raman Singh
UG201110027  Rishi Mishra
UG201110028  Sahil Kharb
UG201110029  Sanjeev Kumar
UG201110030  Santosh Kumar Siddharth
Saurabh Kumar Gangwar
Shah Jenil Dilip
UG201110033  Shivam Verma
UG201110034  Siddharth Kumar Singh
UG201110035  Siddharth Maheshwari
UG201110036  Sonu Mehta
UG201110037  Syed Navaid Ahmad
UG201110038  Yash Kumar Sonthalia
UG201110039  Yeravothula Rohith
UG201110040  Gatla Rajasekhar Reddy
UG201110041  Abhishek Bassan
UG201110042  Arvind Pandey
UG201110043  Smriti Jain
Hem Singh Meena
Kadoo Amruta Anil
Krishna Kumar Damolia
Kuldeep Singh Rathore
Devendra Kumar Jangid
Gajarla Ravi Teja
Guneet Singh Mehta
Hari Om Meena
UG201110044  Wins Goyal
UG201111002  Abhishek Pilania
UG201111003  Anshul Narayan Bhatt
UG201111004  Anshul Singh Parihar
UG201111005  Anurag Dharmawat
UG201111006  Atul Agarwal
UG201111007  Battula Sasi Kaushik
UG201111008  Brajesh Kumar
UG201111009  Bussa Pavan Kumar
UG201111010  Damacharla Sandeep
UG201111016  Harshit Dixit
UG201111018  Hemant Kumar Biloniya
UG201111020  Kotha Sudheer
UG201111024  Kumar Saurav
UG201111028  Rangaraju Yashomani Srikar
UG201111029  Ravindra Kumar Sharma
UG201111030  Ravyansh Kumar
UG201111042  Aniruddh Ramrakhyani
UG201111043  Ashutosh Mittal
UG201111044  Dhiraj Bhatt
UG201111045  Heena Masuriya
Sanchit Kumar Singh
Satyendra Kumar Gautam
Voruganti Surya Teja
Alvin Roy Aliath
Kundan Singh Meena
UG201112002  Ankit Aggarwal
UG201112004  Ashutosh Vishwakarma
UG201112005  Atishay Jain
UG201112006  C. Sri Harsha
UG201112007  Chetan Regar
UG201112008  Chilakamarri Satya Ranga Prasanth  ME
UG201112009  Deep Kumar
UG201112010  Deshraj Meena
UG201112013  Gajanand Saini
UG201112014  Gautam Kumar
UG201112015  Harsh Kumar Karmveer
UG201112016  Harshit Srivastava
UG201112017  Himanshu Sahu
UG201112018  Kishan Sharma
UG201112019  Kothapally Mounish
UG201112020  Kunal Vishnu Paraswani
UG201112022  Maninder Singh
UG201112023  Manish Sachdeva
UG201112024  Mohit Dadhich
UG201112025  Mukul Kumar Gupta
UG201112026  Navneet Kumar Yadav
UG201112027  Neeraj Kumar
UG201112028  Rahul Sathya Babu
UG201113002  Abhishek Singh
UG201113003  Ajay Sunarthi
UG201113004  Akhil Arora
UG201113006  Ankit Singh
UG201113007  Arpit Agarwal
UG201113008  Atharv S. Ghaisas
UG201113010  Desidi Siva Prakash
UG201113012  Divya Grover
UG201113013  Gurjot Singh
Sagar Anand Ramgare
Sandeep Shankarrao Hatte
Tagde Prateek Prakash
Vaidya Kedar Sanjay
Jitendra Kumar Meena
UG201113014  Himanshu Shukla
UG201113018  Kowlagi Sudhendra Narayan
UG201113019  Krati Saxena
UG201113020  Kusum Lata Meena
UG201113022  M Hari Haran
UG201113023  Manthani Tejaswi
UG201113024  Mohamed Rehan Mohamed Sagheer  SS
UG201113025  Neelesh Dwivedi
UG201113026  Neha Singh Chauhan
UG201113028  Pratik Kumar
UG201113029  Rahul Kumar
UG201113030  Raj Rohit Jalem
UG201113032  Rishabh Jain
UG201113036  Shinde Sahil Anil
UG201113039  Vinnakota Sai Rakshit
Sankha Narayan Guria
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2012
Sl. No.  Roll No.
UG201210001  Abhishek Kumar
UG201210002  Aditya Yadav
UG201210003  Akash Mishra
UG201210004  Akshit Jain
UG201210005  Aseem Raj Baranwal
UG201210006  Asheet Kumar
UG201210007  Attanti Madhurya
UG201210008  Bandela Prathyusha
UG201210009  Basamgari Harika
UG201210010  Bundele Manas Mahesh
UG201210011  Dhake Akash Hiraman
UG201210012  Dinesh Kumar Jangra
UG201210013  Dinesh Kumar Saini
UG201210014  Gaurav Shastri
UG201210015  Gondi Dedeepya Sai
UG201210016  Gorla Uhasree
UG201210018  Kalshetti Pratik Mallinath
UG201210019  Kunal Dadheech
UG201210020  Mala Muthyalappa
UG201210021  Manish Jaiswal
UG201210022  N. K. Kiran
UG201210023  Pankaj Kumar
UG201210024  Pawan Kumar Saini
UG201210025  Rajesh Kumar Meena
UG201210026  Rishabh Garg
UG201210028  Ritesh Kumar
UG201210029  Rohan Khanna
UG201210030  Sachin Grover
UG201210033  Shivam Kumar Garg
Samarth Kumar Goel
Shah Akshat Mukeshkumar
UG201210034  Siddharth Talesra
UG201210035  Sonika Agrawal
UG201210036  Sunil Kumar
UG201210037  Vaibhav Singh Khokhar
UG201210038  Vijendra Sukariya
UG201210039  Vikas Meena
UG201210040  Ankit Jain
UG201211002  Ajay Charan
UG201211003  Akarsh Rastogi
UG201211004  Akshay Arya
UG201211006  Anubhuti Mittal
UG201211007  Ashwani Kumar
UG201211008  Ashwani Nainawat
UG201211009  Deepak Verma
UG201211010  Devabattini Sriharsha
Dharm Raj Meena
UG201211016  Hitesh Kumar Singhal
K. V. Vikas Reddy
UG201211019  Mamta Dhaka
UG201211020  Mukesh Kumar
UG201211022  Nishit Umesh Parekh
Pawan Kumar Verma
UG201211028  Rajat R Rahatgaonkar
UG201211029  Rajnesh Meena
Santosh Kumar Meena
Shrish Lal Bhatnagar
Sriramadasu Ashok Kumar
UG201211040  Upendra Kumar Nagar
UG201211042  Antos C. Varghese
UG201211043  Himanshu Takwani
Vinay Shankar Saxena
UG201212001  Aditya Khandelwal
UG201212002  Ajay Kumar Jagetiya
UG201212003  Anjali Bansiwal
UG201212005  Ashish Kumar
UG201212006  Ashish Kumar
UG201212007  Atul Dubey
UG201212008  Ayush Bhadauria
UG201212009  B. V. Kishore
UG201212010  Balla Raghavendar Goud
Chamarthy Kameswara Shiva Dinesh  ME
UG201212015  Dilkhush Meena
UG201212017  Himanshu Yadav
UG201212018  Kamlesh Aseri
UG201212019  Kanak Shrivastava
UG201212020  Manish Soni
UG201212021  N. Vinaykumar Reddy
UG201212022  Navneet Mittal
Pavan Kumar Shakya
Sandeep Kumar Meena
Shah Jigar Deepak
Sonu Siba Bara
Surendra Pal Singh
Tapesh Kumar Mourya
UG201212037  Vaibhav Gupta
UG201212038  Varun Suryan
UG201212039  Vikash Kumar Goenka
UG201212040  Vishal Kumar
UG201212041  Anshuman Singh
UG201212042  Kirti Vardhan Rathore
UG201213005  Divya Nagar
Kota V. Aakash
UG201213006  Gaurav Choudhary
UG201213007  Gourab Kumar Patro
UG201213008  Hari Om Meena
UG201213014  Kshitij Soni
UG201213016  Mahendra Kachhawa
UG201213018  Manish Malhotra
UG201213019  Narender Kumar
UG201213020  Paladugu Venkata Karteek
UG201213023  Pise Indraneel Rajnish
UG201213024  Pragati Nagar
UG201213026  Priyanka Raju Masne
UG201213027  Purvi Tiwari
UG201213028  Raghunath Meena
UG201213029  Ravi Kumar
UG201213034  Shivam Choudhary
UG201213036  Sunil Suthar
UG201213037  Vibhav Sharma
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2013
Sl. No.  Roll No
Abhay Kumar Singh
Avan Jayendra Rathod
Hemant Pratap Singh
Komanduri Sai Raghava
UG201310018  Mahendra Kumar Jat
UG201310019  Makarand Milind Gomashe
UG201310020  Muttineni Navya
Nikhil Jeevansingh Taji
Ravi Prakash Gupta
Ravindra Kumar Saini
Shiv Kumar Sen
Upendra Singh Chauhan
Vaghela Rajan Arvindkumar
Abhishek Kumar Yadav
Anirudh Singh Shaktawat
Dinesh Kumar Danwa
Dipender Singh Ridmalot
Hede Tejan Rohit
Kshitij Sandeep Minocha
Paduru Kandarpa Sai
Rajendra Kumar Yadav
Syed Afshan Ali
Arpit Kumar Gahlot
Dheeraj Kumar Sisodiya
Harsh Vardhan Shrivastava
Himanshu Kumar Singh
K. Lakshmi Phalguni
Manish Rajendra Jadhav
UG201312022  Mayank Gupta
UG201312023  Mohammed Firoz
UG201312024  Mohit Agarwal
Patel Harsh Bhupendrabhai
Vaghela Nirav Jitendrakumar
Gaikwad Sangram Dasharath
Jayant V. Khapre
Joshi Achyut Sanjay
Lingala  Prasantha Kumar
Naresh Kumar Prajapati
Saroj Prasad Chhatoi
Ajay Kumar Kumawat
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2014
Sl. No.  Roll No
Abhimanyu Singh Gaur
Archil Kumar Srivastava
B Sree Siddharth
Chaudhari Akshay Gajanan
Edula Hari Hara Reddy
Ganesh Bhimrao Patil
Gutapu Raj Kumar
Kommuru Vinay Kumar
Rinku Kumar Meena
Rohan Govind Saraf
Vijay Kumar Paliwal
Dara Shanmukha Sai Sanjay Gupta
Jaiswal Ronak Nilesh
Jay Bhavin Sheth
Kaviti Sarath Kalyan
Naveen Kumar Chittoriya
Parmar Sunny Mukeshkumar
Shah Neelkumar Sureshkumar
Sudhir Pratap Yadav
Thara Giriraj Prasad
Vamsi Prudhvi Chintaguntala
Vanam Bhanu Sai Simha
Akshay Vinay Bapat
Bandi Sai Mukesh
Boghara Pruthvi Rameshbhai
Jerry Mathew Oommen
Kartik Venkata Ramachandruni
Katakam Harsha Sai Manohar
Parella Ravi Teja
Patel Pranav Nareshbhai
Pothula Krishna Teja
Shinde Shubham Bhaskar
Udit Singh Parihar
Uma Shankar Sharma
Angad Singh Sabherwal
B Sai Chaitanya
Devanshu Bhavin Kathrecha
K Tejas Reddy
Vaibhav Baban Ganer
Yashwant Kumar Meena
Dinesh Kumar Maurya
The MHRD has released a sum of Rs. 9900.00 Lakhs as Grant-in-Aid under Normal
Plan Head and Rs. 1087.04 Lakh as opening balance as on 01-04-2014. The internal income of
the  Institute  was  Rs.  991.79  Lakh.  The  total  Plan  expenditure  during  the  year  was  Rs.
10110.83 Lakh (Recurring Rs. 2855.05 Lakh and Non-Recurring Rs. 7255.78 Lakh).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011