Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
B.Tech. AI & DS Curriculum Structure AY 2020-21
B.Tech. AI&DS Curriculum Structure AY 2020-21
This  BTech  program  combines  two  broad  areas,  Artificial  Intelligence  and  Data  Science,  while  building  a
strong foundation in Computer Science. Artificial Intelligence (AI) aims to create machines to act with higher
levels of intelligence and emulate the human capabilities of sense, comprehend and act. On the other hand,
Data Science (DS) is the art of generating insight, knowledge and predictions by processing data pertaining
to  a  system  or  a  process.  AI  and  Data  Science  can  feed  into  each  other  as  evolutionary  systems  that  can
continuously learn from data and thereby emulate humans better. As the demand for these areas increases,
there is also an increasing need for building the future workforce for Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
IIT Jodhpur will offer this unique program to develop the Artificial Intelligence and Data Science ecosystem in
the  country.  The  curriculum  includes  courses  in  computer  science,  mathematics,  artificial  intelligence,
machine learning, and their applications in various domains. The curriculum also provides opportunities to
the students to explore specialization areas including visual computing, socio-digital realities, robotics, and
AIOT.  The  program  also  allows  the  students  to  venture  into  Management  specialization  with  AI  and
Technology focus, leading to MBA (BTech + MBA dual degree program), as well as entrepreneurial activities.
The program also enables the students to build strong industry linkages in terms of practical training program,
summer internships, and co-supervision on projects.
2. Objectives of the program
1.  BTech  in  AI&DS  will  offer  students  with  in-depth  knowledge  of  fundamental  concepts,  as  well  as
application- oriented technologies in the broad areas of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
2.  A  student  completing  this  program  will  be  capable  of  undertaking  careers  in  industry  as  well  as
academia. Interested students may also follow entrepreneurial endeavors in AI&DS areas.
3.  He/She  will  have  the  option  to  explore  a  variety  of  domains  including  governance,  finance,  security,
transportation,  healthcare,  energy  management,  agriculture/food  processing,  population  studies,  legal
systems,  content  creation  and  management  systems,  weather  prediction,  economics,  predictive
maintenance,  smart  manufacturing,  education,  human  and  robot  interaction/intelligent  automation,
smart city, drug discovery, and aid for differently abled/accessibility technology.
3. Expected Graduate Attributes
After completing this program, a student will develop an ability to:
fundamental  concepts  and  hands-on  knowledge  of
the  state-of-the-art  AI&DS
2.  Skill  set  to  clean,  process,  analyze,  manage  and  handle  security  and  privacy  aspects  of  structured  and
3.  Ability  to  identify,  design  and  apply  appropriate  pattern  recognition  and  data  mining  methods  for
generating relevant insight from data.
4.  Design and build real-world AI&DS systems, solving application-specific problems, and to reason about
5.  Conceive, design and develop Intelligent multi-modal multi-sensory Man-Machine interfaces.
6.  Design, develop, and deploy machine learning based applications using structured and unstructured data
(e.g., speech, text, images/videos).
7.  Capability  to  follow  a  unique  interdisciplinary  approach  for  solving  problems,  using  knowledge  of
mathematics, statistics, computing and one or more selected domains among physics, chemistry, biology,
engineering sciences, and management.
8.  Understand and assess reliability, dependability and trust-worthiness of AI&DS based systems and their
impact on societal and environmental context.
9.  Design and develop AI applications for resource constrained environments.
10. Adhere to evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and territories.
11. Plan and manage technical projects.
4. Learning Outcomes
The student will have an ability to
1.  Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals along with artificial intelligence
and  machine  learning  knowledge,  and  an  engineering  specialization  to  develop  solutions  to  real-world
2.  Apply  appropriate  theories,  design  principles,  frameworks,  and  protocols  to  develop  AI  &  DS  based
3.  Demonstrate  hands-on  knowledge  of  modern  simulation,  and  AI  &  DS  programming  tools  with  an
understanding of the limitations.
4.  Apply to reason informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural
issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
5.  Function  effectively  as  an  individual,  and  as  a  member  or  leader  in  diverse  teams,  and  in
6.  Communicate  effectively  on  complex  engineering  activities  by  comprehending  and  writing  effective
reports and design documentation, making effective presentations and exchanging clear instructions.
7.  Apply appropriate project and business management principles and tools for real-world problems.
8.  Recognize  the  need  for,  and  have  the  preparation  and  ability  to  engage  in  independent  and  life-long
learning in the broadest context of technological change.
5. New skill sets targeted
1.  AI&DS algorithms for transforming large data into actionable decision
2.  Building end to end systems for enhancing human capabilities using vision, language, and text processing
3.  Foundations in ML Optimization
4.  Ethical, Safe, and Dependable AI/ML Systems
5.  Familiarity with emerging and futuristic AI&DS techniques
6.  Entrepreneurial capability
7.  Written and oral communication
6. Topic clouds and Mapping of Topic clouds with proposed courses
Map topics with courses in the table given below:
Table 1. Topics and Mapping of Topic with Courses
AI and ML
Abstract Data Types, Linear Data Structures, Non
Linear Data Structures, Stack, Queue, Link List, Heap,
Sorting, Hashing, Algorithm Analysis, Graph, Tree
Discrete Structures, Logics, Set, Graph and Trees,
Deterministic Finite Automata, Non-deterministic Finite
Automata, PushDown Automata, Context Free
Grammar, Turing Machine, Lexical and Syntax
Data Structures and
Maths for Computing (PC)
Hardware-Software interaction, Digital circuit design
and analysis, Computer system design, Instruction set
architecture, Language translation, Semantic analysis
Principles of Computer
Systems - 1 (PC)
Network-OS interaction, Process management, Storage
Principles of Computer
Systems - 2 (PC)
Design and Analysis of
Pattern Recognition and
Machine Learning (IE)
Technique  Artificial Intelligence (PC)
Technique  Deep Learning (PC)
Technique  Dependable AI (PC)
Complexity Analysis, Divide-and-conquer, Greedy
Algorithms, Dynamic Programming, Linear
Programming, Universal Hashing, Max-flow Min-cut,
Amortized Analysis, Traveling Salesman Problem,
Bayes Decision Theory, Regression, Bias variance,
Maximum Likelihood Estimation, Bayesian Parameter
Estimation, Decision Tree, Random Forest, Artificial
Neural Network, Clustering, k-means, SVM, Feature
Selection, Dimensionality Reduction
Uninformed Search Strategies, Informed Search
Strategies, Local Search Algorithms, Hill Climbing,
Constraint Satisfaction Problems, Backtracking,
Adversarial Search, Min-Max algorithms, Propositional
Logic, Reasoning Patterns, First-order logic, Syntax,
Semantics, Q-value, Policy,
Neural Networks, Gradient Descent, Optimization,
Regularization, Autoencoder, Convolutional Neural
Network, Recurrent Neural Network, LSTM, Deep
Generative Models, Generative Adversarial Network
(GAN), Deep Belief Network, Deep Convolutional
GAN, Variational Autoencoder, Representation
Learning, Unsupervised Pre-training, Transfer
Learning, Distributed Representation, Domain
Adaptation, Neural Language Model, Adversarial
problem, Predictability, Transparency, Traceability,
Causality, Reasoning, Attention and Saliency,
Interpretable AI, Prediction Consistency, Adversarial
Robustness, Trustworthy AI, Integrity, Reproducibility,
Accountability, Bias-free AI, Verified AI, Federated
Learning, Differential Privacy,
Convexity, Linear programming, Duality, Integer
programming, Nonlinear programming, Lagrange
multipliers, First and second order conditions, Local
and global convergence, Gradient descent methods
Optimization for Machine
Advanced AI (PE)
Decision-making, Utility Theory, Utility Functions,
Decision Networks, Sequential Decision Problems,
Partially Observable MDP, Game Theory,
Reinforcement Learning, Generalization, Policy Search,
Hidden Markov Model, Kalman Filter, Knowledge
Representation, Ontological Engineering, Situation
Calculus, Semantic Networks, Description Logic,
Planning graphs, Partial-order Planning, Conditional
Planning, Continuous Planning, Multi-agent Planning,
Hierarchical Task Network Planning, Non-deterministic
Kernel Machines, Variants of Support Vector Machines,
PAC Theory, Boosting, Graphical Models, Structural
Predictions, Deep Reinforcement Learning, Sparse
Computational complexity of AI models, Prediction
accuracy, Numeric accuracy, Precision, Memory
footprints, Edge AI, Memory Optimization of Models,
Hardware accelerators for Edge AI, Vision Processing
Unit, Streaming Hybrid Architecture Vector Engine,
Open Neural Network Exchange
Search Engine Architecture, Retrieval Models,
Performance Evaluation, Text Categorization, Text
Clustering, Web Information Retrieval, Structured
Graph algorithms, Directed and Undirected graph,
Planner graph, Graph coloring, Hamiltonion and
Eulorian graph, Bipartite graphs, Trees.
Streaming Algorithms, Stream mining using Clustering,
Massive Data Clustering, Data Stream Classification,
Distributed Mining of Streaming Data, Change
Diagnosis, Forecasting on Stream, Dimensionality
Reduction for Streaming data.
Artificial Intelligence (PE)
Information Retrieval (PE)
Stream Analytics (PE)
User experience, Prototyping techniques and
evaluation, Interface design and interaction, Speculative
design, Value sensitive design
Visual World, Geometry, Lights and Optics, Tracking,
Motion, Depth, devices and tools
Technique  Introduction to AR and
Graphs, Network Models, Network Data Generation,
Structural Properties, Link Prediction, Community
Detection, Information Cascade, Small World
Phenomenon, Homophily, Structural Balance,
Components, NetworkX, Gephi, Network Evolution,
Technique  Social Networks (PE)
Representing data, Data science ecosystem, data
sources, data storage, data model, Structured data,
unstructured data, semi-structured data, Accessing
data, SQL, NoSQL databases, parallel data reads/writes
for high throughput, distributed database, Analysing
data, distributed data processing
Data Engineering (PC)
Data Visualization, Data representation, feature
representations, encoded representations, Spatial data
representation, Time-series data representations,
Data Visualization (PC)
visualization of multivariate data, geometry,
Information illustration, Maps and Graphics, Advanced
Visualization, Interactive graphics, infographics,
visualization of high dimensional data
Multivariate analysis, Sampling theory, Matrix
decomposition, Algorithms for big matrices, Data
Computational Neuroscience Models: Descriptive,
Mechanistic and Interpretive models, Synapse, Neural
encoding, Neural decoding, Neuron models, Spikes,
Modeling connections between neurons, Synaptic
plasticity and learning, Unsupervised and supervised
learning from the perspective of neurons
Biological signals, Biomedical imaging modalities,
Sectioning, Multimodal images, Reconstruction, Image
segmentation, Object delineation, Classification, Image
registration, Deep Learning for Bio-imaging, Tracking,
Interactive image analysis
Image digitization, Pixel relationships and distances,
Camera model and stereo imaging, Image transforms,
Image Enhancement: Spatial and Frequency domain,
Image Restoration, Image segmentation, Color image
processing, image morphology, Image compression and
coding, Image features
Spoken language technology, dialog and conversational
systems, automatic speech recognition, speech
synthesis, affect detection, dialogue management.
Image formation and transformations, Camera
calibration, Image restoration, Spatial and Wavelet-
based processing, Epipolar Geometry, SfM, Optical
flow, Key-point detection, Feature description and
matching, Deep learning for vision, Applications
Maths for Big Data (PC)
Technique  Digital Image Processing
Techniques  Speech Understanding
Techniques  Computer Vision (PE)
Geometric primitives, clipping, viewing, rendering,
animation, Shading, Coloring, OpenGL
Technique  Computer Graphics (PE)
Word representation, NLP tasks, Seq2Seq model,
Question Answering, Sentiment Analysis, Dialogue
system, Machine Translation, natural language
generation, Interpretability, Knowledge Graphs
Biometric system design, Genesis of biometrics, System
architecture, Performance evaluation, Biometric
modalities, Biometric security, Biometric devices,
Multi-dimensional signals, systems, transforms and
sampling; Camera models; Motion and shape
estimation; Video segmentation and tracking; Video
filtering, compression and restoring; Ego-centric, 360-
degree and Streaming video
Applications  Natural Language
Applications  Advanced Biometrics (PE)
Applications  Video Processing (PE)
Regular B.Tech.  Double B.Tech.
Total  Credit  Total
7. Course Categories, credit distribution and Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 2. ProposedCourse Categories and credit distribution in the proposed B.Tech. Programmes
Institute Core (I)
Programme Linked (L)
Programme Core (P)
Engineering Science (E)
Programme Compulsory (PC)
Programme Electives (PE)
B.Tech. Project (PP)
Open Electives (OE)
Engineering Science Core (EC)
Engineering Science Elective (EE)
Design/Practical Experience (ND)
Total Graded + Non-Graded
8. Credit Structure of B.Tech. Programmes
Table 4. Credit Structure for B.Tech. Programmes (Up 6000 Level)
L-T-P  Distribution of contact and beyond contact hours
1 hour of Lecture
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Lab/Project
#Contact hour for projects refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion, etc.
9. List of Programme Compulsory Courses
Table 5. Programme Compulsory Courses
Sr. No  Course Name
Data Structure and Algorithms
2  Maths for Computing
Principles of Computer Systems - 1 (Compilers and
Contact Hours  Credit
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Optimization for ML
Principles of Computer Systems - 2
5  Human-Machine Interaction
10  Data Visualization
11  Deep Learning
12  Dependable AI
13  DSAI Core Elective 1 (DS + X)
14  DSAI Core Elective 2 (AI + X)
15  Maths for Big Data*
*For Core ES + AI&DS program, under DS+X for regular program, Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulations in AI
(0- 0-2) is a core course under Professional Ethics - II (Sem VI).
10. Area-wise Programme Elective Courses
Table 6. Stream-wise Programme Electives Courses
AI and ML
Science of Intelligence
Cyber Physical Systems,
Sensors and Internet of
Data and Discovery
Advanced Artificial Intelligence
Advanced Machine Learning
Resource Constrained Artificial Intelligence
Scalable Machine Learning
Computational Learning Theory
Graph Theoretic Algorithms
Introduction to Robotics
Planning and Decision Making of Robots
Introduction to Haptics
Introduction to AR and VR
Advanced Human-Machine Interaction
Digital Image Processing
Natural Language Understanding
Introduction to Cyber Physical Systems
Embedded Systems Design
Security in CPS
Edge and Fog Computing
Real Time Systems
Introduction to Space Science
Reliability Engineering and Life Testing
Introduction to Game Theory
Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos
Introduction to Financial Engineering
Special Topics in ML
Special Topics: Advancements in Computer Vision
Special Topics in Data Science
11. Specialization to be offered by the department
Table 7a. Specialization and courses
Specialization Core (8
Visual Computing (CS,
Computer Graphics (3-0-0),
Computer Vision (3-0-0),
Visual Computing Lab (0-0-
Specialization Elective (12 Credits)
Digital Image Processing, Video Processing and
Analysis, Advanced Machine Learning,
Introduction to AR and VR, Scalable Machine
Learning, Computational Photography,
Computational Imaging, Principles of Biological
Vision, Bioimaging, Medical Image Analysis,
Visual Perception, Advancements in Computer
Vision, Animation, Real-time Vision
Architecture, Image Synthesis, 3D Shape
Analysis, Image and Video Forensics, Selected
Topics in Computer Vision, Project (0-0-12)
(CS, AI&DS, EE)
Social Network (3-0-0),
Introduction to AR and VR
interface Lab (0-0-4)
Introduction  to  Haptics,  Design  Process,  Speech
Understanding,  Computer  Graphics,  HCI, NLU,
Computer Vision, Visual Perception, Image and
Video Forensics, Project (0-0-12)
Jointly with EE
Jointly with EE
Jointly with RM-IDRP
Jointly with RM-IDRP
Jointly with EE
Jointly with EE
(for non-AI, non-CS
AI (3-0-0), Deep Learning
(3-0-0), AI Lab (0-0-4)
Algorithm for big data, computer vision,
machine learning with big data, edge and fog
computing, NLP, GPU Programming, Data
Visualization, Introduction to AR and VR,
Dependable AI, Resource constrained AI, Social
Network Analysis, Optimization, Computer
Graphics, Advanced AI, Advanced ML, Project
*Science of Intelligence, Smart Healthcare, and Language Technologies Specializations will be added in
Table 7b. AI+X courses.
1.  AI + Industry 4.0
2  Autonomous Systems
3.  AI + Transportation
Jointly with ME
Table 7c. DS+X (Applied Statistics) courses.
1.  Maths for Big Data
2.  Statistical Inference and Simulation Techniques  Maths course
3.  Introduction to Financial Engineering
4.  Time Series Analysis
12. Curriculum of B.Tech. AI&DS  (Regular)
Table 8b. Curriculum of B.Tech. in AI&DS
CH  NC  GC  Cat
CH  NC  GC
IS  Chemistry Lab
IS  Physics Lab
IS  Mathematics II
-  NH  Communication
-  NH  Social Connect
-  NH  Performing Arts
II/ Sports II
IE  Materials Science
IE Introduction to
IE Introduction to
IE Introduction to
IS  Mathematics I
NH Social Connect
NH Performing Arts
I/ Sports I
IE i- Energy materials
PC Data Structures
PC Maths for
IE Signals and
LS Quantum Info
NE Intro. To
4  PC  HMI PCS-1 PCS-2
IH  Humanities I
AI+X / DS+ X
PC DA of
IH Humanities II
-  NH  Ethics,
Regulations in AI
PP B. Tech. Project
AI+X / DS+ X
IH Humanities III
IS  Environmental Sci
IH  Humanities IV
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit
Non-Graded Design Credits
13.  Curriculum of Double B.Tech. : B.Tech. AI&DS Engineering and Engineering Science
Table 9. Programme structure of Double B.Tech.
ES  Probability, Statistics,
LTP  CH  NC  GC
4  IE  Materials
First two semesters same as Table 8a or 8 b 33 Graded and 6 non graded credits
ES  Modern Physics
3  ES  Embedded
4  IE  Pattern
ES  Data Structures and
IE  Signals and Systems
NE  Intro. To Profession
PC  Maths for Comp.
DA of Algorithm
Artificial Intelligence  3-0-0
Optimization in ML
4  ES  Design of
4  ES  Modelling and
IH  Humanities I
4  PC  PCS-1
AI+X / DS+ X
IH  Humanities II
NH  Professional Ethics I
-  NH  Ethics,
PP  B. Tech. Project
IH  Humanities III
PC  AI+X / DS+ X
Maths for Big Data
IS  Environmental Science
Total of graded and Non-Graded Credit  9
Non-Graded Design Credits  6
Note: ES are proposed Engineering Science compulsory courses