Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Image Credits: Vidya Sarveswaran
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342037
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, Coordinator (Faculty)
Atul Kumar, Coordinator (Academics)
V. Narayanan, Coordinator (R&D)
C. V. R. Murty, Coordinator (Students)
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar (Planning)
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar
Jodhpur 342037 eMail: publications@iitj.ac.in
Copyright © 2017, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur (www.iitj.ac.in). All rights reserved
Vision & Mission
Board of Governors
Building and Works Committee
Departments and Associated Faculty Members
Collaborations with Academia
Collaborations with Industry
R & D Projects
Patents & Publications
Awards & Recognitions
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of Days of National Importance
Visitors to the Institute
Inter-IIT Sports Meet
Student Fests & Events
Student Placement Cell
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
Into the eighth year of its existence, the Institute has
taken  yet  another  step  forward  by  forming  three  new
departments.  They  are  the  Departments  of  Chemical
Engineering,  Civil  Engineering  and  Materials  Engineering.
Selection of Faculty Members is underway for these new
departments. Also, in line with the vision of the Institute,
the  Department  of  Biology  has  been  renamed  as  the
Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering.
In terms of academics, the Institute is steadily marching
forward  with  its  education  programs  at  the  four  levels,
namely B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech., and Ph.D. Programs. With
the  formation  of  three  new  departments  in  this  year,  it
is hoped to roll out new streams of B.Tech., M.Tech. and
Ph.D. Programs in these areas too, in the years to come.
And,  on  the  research  front,  the  number  of  sponsored
projects  increased  from  47  to  53,  this  year.  There  is  an
increase in total number of research publications as well,
from  112  of  previous  year  to  124  this  year,  with  journal
papers increasing from 75 to 89.
At  the  pinnacle  of  the  events  of  the  year,  the  3rd
Convocation of IIT Jodhpur was organized on 8 December
2016  –  157  students  received  degrees  at  the  B.Tech.,
M.Tech. and Ph.D. levels for their hard work and dedication,
and for the sacrifices of their parents. The major event on
which  the  eyes  of  entire  IIT  Jodhpur  community  are  set
and hopes pinned, is our movement into the Permanent
Campus. Most of the buildings of Phase I construction are
moving  towards  the  completion  stage.  The  migration  is
slated to take place during July – August 2017.
11  new  Faculty  Members  and  9  new  Staff  Members
joined the IIT Jodhpur fraternity during the year. With this
new  energy,  it  is  hoped  that  the  Institute  will  begin the
run for new academic initiatives in a deeper sense…
C. V. R. Murty
Vision, Mission & Core Values
The Institute shall
(1)  Promote technology thought and action, and
(2)   Prepare  needed  technical  human  resources  to  meet  the  technology
challenges of the nation.
The Institute shall
1.  Create  a  vibrant  technology  institute  that  incubates  and  promotes  learning,  research,  invention  and  eventually
2. Prepare each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere to its core values:
a)  Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand Challenges of India;
b)  Train active functionaries of a process driven professional institute;
c)  Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive academic institute; and
d)  Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as possible for economic value creation.
The Institute stands for a set of core values, wherein each member of the IIT Jodhpur community shall
(1)  Uphold highest levels of human integrity and dignity;
(2)  Not take unfair advantage of any stakeholder of the Institute;
Work towards building the most admired technology Institute furthering interests of Students, Industries and
Commit  to  economic  development  of  India  through  technological  thought  and action;
(5)  Be ethical, sincere and open in all transactions; and
Be continually responsible for upholding utmost confidentiality of all information and circumstances arising out
of any interaction.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Under  the  broad  umbrella  of  IIT  Council,  IIT  Jodhpur  functions  under  the  guidance  of  the  following  statutory
(1)  Board of Governors;
(2)  Finance Committee;
(3)  Senate; and
(4)  Buildings & Works Committee.
Chairman, Board of Governors
Board of Governors
Building & Works Committee
Member details of these Statutory Bodies are given in the pages to follow.
Annual Report 2016-17
Board of Governors
1. Professor C. V. R. Murty
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
2.	Director	(Ex-officio)
Professor C. V. R. Murty Director
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
Member-Nominees of the IIT Council
1.  Professor Pankaj Chandra
Indian Institute of Management Bangalore 560076
2.  Professor N. S. Vyas
Chairman, Technology Mission for Indian Railways Ministry of Railways
Government of India New Delhi 110001
3.  Mr. Kiran Karnik
Former President, NASSCOM S-315 Panchsheel Park
New Delhi 110017
4.  Mr. D. R. Mehta
Founder & Chief Patron
Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti 13A-Gurunanak Path
Main Malviya Nagar Jaipur 302017
State Government Nominee
1. Principal Secretary
Higher & Technical Education Main Building Secretariat Government of Rajasthan Jaipur 302005
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
1. Professor C. V. R. Murty
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
1. Professor C. V. R. Murty
Old Residency Road, Ratanada Jodhpur 342011
2.		Additional	Secretary	(Technical	Education)
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development Government of India
Shastri Bhawan New Delhi 110001
3.  Financial Advisor
Department of Higher Education
Ministry of Human Resources and Development Government of India
Shastri Bhawan New Delhi 110001
4.  Mr. G. S. Sood,
IDAS House No. 1090 Sector 29
5.  CA S. S. Bhandari
Director, Non-Executive Director on the Board Bank of Baroda
P-7, Tilak Marg, C-Scheme Jaipur 302005
6.  Dr. Gaurav Harit
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Jodhpur 342011
Annual Report 2016-17
Professor C. V. R. Murty
Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta
(Nominee of Board of Governors)
Professor H. P. Khincha
(Nominee of Board of Governors)
Professor Sanjeev Misra
(Nominee of Board of Governors)
Head, Department of Biosciences & Bioengineering
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Physics
Chairman, Wardens Committee
Chairman, Library Committee
Laboratory In-Charge, Workshop
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Buildings and Works Committee
1.  Professor C. V. R. Murty
Old Residency Road, Ratanada, Jodhpur 342011
1.   Ms. Usha Kasana
Public Works Department Government of Rajasthan Jacob Road, Civil Lines Jaipur 302006
2.  Mr. R. K. Govil
Additional Director General Civil (Retd.), CPWD 26, Ankur Apartments
7, I.P. Extension
3.  Mr. V. K. Bansal
Chief Engineer Electrical (Retd.), CPWD 721 Sky Lark Apartment,
Sector-6, Plot No.35, Dwarka New Delhi 110075
4.  Dr. B. Ravindra
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur Jodhpur 342011
Annual Report 2016-17
The Institute has organized its activities through various key functionaries, as depicted in the organogram below.
Building & Works
Heads of Departments
Details of various key functionaries of the Institute are as follow.
C. V. R. Murty
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, Faculty
V. Narayanan, Research & Development
Atul Kumar, Academics
C. V. R. Murty, Students
Kaushalkumar A. Desai, Laboratory In-Charge, Workshop
Heads of the Departments
Venkata Ramana Badarla, Computer Science & Engineering
Anil K. Tiwari, Electrical Engineering
B. Ravindra, Mechanical Engineering
Sushmita Jha, Bioscience & Bioengineering
Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Chemistry
Kirankumar R. Hiremath, Mathematics
Subhashish Banerjee, Physics
Vidya Sarveswaran, Humanities & Social Sciences
Convenors of Focus Groups
Sushmita Jha, Biologically Inspired System Science
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli, System Science
Ashish Garg, Faculty
Navratan Mal Bhandari, Research & Development
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Chairman / Chairperson
Samanwita Pal, Wardens Committee
P. Manikandan, Student Placement Committee
Satyajit Sahu, Medical Services Committee
Satyajit Sahu, Library Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli, Logistics Committee
V. V. M. Sarma Chandramouli, Scholarships and Prizes Committee
Anand Krishnan Plappally, Alumni, Relations Committee
Ankita Sharma, Counselling Services Committee
Gaurav Harit, Chief Vigilance Officer
Gaurav Bhatnagar, Transparency Officer
Puneet Sharma, Hindi Officer
Mahesh Kumar, Green Initiative Officer
Satyajit Sahu, Nodal Officer for OBC, PwD, and Minorities
Barun Pratiher, Nodal Officer for SC and ST
Kshema Prakash, Women Cell Officer
Amardeep Sharma, Public Relations Officer
Sanjeeb Mukherjee, Infrastructure Engineer
Amardeep Sharma, Infrastructure Manager
Ashok Kumar Khanduri, Central Public Information Officer
Coordinator (Academics) Chairman
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Head, Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Head, Department of Chemistry
Head, Department of Mathematics
Head, Department of Physics
Head, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Convener (Focus Group Biologically Inspired System Science)
Convener (Focus Group System Science)
Liaison Officer (SC/ST Cell)
Secretary, ARA Society, Students Gymkhana
Three Student Representatives from ARA Society, Students Gymkhana
(one each from B.Tech., M.Tech. and Ph.D. Programs)
Annual Report 2016-17
Departments and Associated Faculty Members
The  Institute  has  organised  its  academic  activities  to  be  conducted  through  eight  Departments,  and  two  Focus
Groups. They are:
1.  Bioscience & Bioengineering,
3.  Computer Science & Engineering,
4.  Electrical Engineering,
5.  Humanities & Social Sciences,
7.  Mechanical Engineering, and
II.  Focus Groups
1.  Biologically Inspired System Science, and
2.  System Science.
The  Institute  welcomed  11  new  Faculty  Members  into  the  IIT  Jodhpur  community.  Details  of  Departments  and
associated Faculty Members are given in the pages to follow.
Additionally, this year, three new departments have been formed in the Institute, namely:
(1)  Department of Chemical Engineering,
(2)  Department of Civil Engineering, and
(3)  Department of Materials Engineering.
Also, the Department of Biology has been renamed as the Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering. Recruitment of
Faculty Members for the new departments is underway.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
The new Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering (formerly Department of Biology) is planned to be the hub
at  IIT  Jodhpur  of  biological  sciences,  medical  sciences,  and  technology.  It  aims  at  providing  quality  education,  and
undertaking research towards addressing the national needs (especially those leading to development of technologies
for diagnostics and treatment by medical professionals). The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering is looking for
Faculty Members, whose competence spans over a wide range of domains needed to meet the national needs.
The  Department  is  planning  to  offer  B.Tech.  (Biotechnology),  M.Tech.  (Bioscience  &  Bioengineering)  and  Ph.D.
Program with specialisation in biological sciences, medical sciences, technology, and their interfaces. The department
will offer a wide range of courses from foundational level to advanced level in the said domains for the various degree
programs. Hands-on learning will be emphasized using state-of-the-art centralized research facilities.
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering will focus on collaboration, both within and outside the Institute, to
enhance research potential and productivity. In particular, special effort is being made to interact with Faculty Members
of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur, towards developing technologies that  are needed by the
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell and Molecular Physiology
Head of Department
Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience, Cell Cycle Regulation and Cancer
Amit Kumar Mishra
Biological Science & Bio-Engineering: Renewable Bioenergy Bioremediation
Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Chemistry
Chemistry  at  IIT  Jodhpur  is  where  Chemistry  sees  Technology.  At  IIT  Jodhpur,  Chemistry  embraces  a  distinctive
locus in science and technology collaboration. The department is making technological contribution to new materials
for  energy  solutions,  catalysis  and  water.  Fundamental  understanding  of  chemical  dynamics,  biological phenomena,
Nuclear  Magnetic  Resonance  and  Quantum  Chemistry  are  growing  in  prominence.  The  vision  of  the  Department  of
Chemistry  is  to  strive  to be  acknowledged for  excellence in  teaching, research,  and outreach. The  following Faculty
Members are associated with the department:
Catalysis for Energy and Stereocontrol, Feedstock Chemistry, Fuel and Lubricants,
Energy Storage and Water Treament Technology
Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Head of Department
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry
Quantum Information Processing
Theoretical and Computational Chemistry, Chemical Reaction Dynamics
Nanomaterials & Nanodevices for Water, Energy and Healthcare
Solution and solid state NMR and NQR spectroscopy
Main-group  organometallic  chemistry,Coordination  polymers,Inorganic-  organic
hybrid materials and Metal phosphonate and phosphate chemistry
Ramesh K. Metre
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Computer Science &  Engineering
The Department offers B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) and Ph.D. Program with specialisation in Computer
Science & Engineering. It has some state-of- the-art laboratory and research facilities.
Following are the Faculty Members associated with the department:
Wireless Networks, and Cloud Computing
Venkata Ramana Badarla
Head of Department
Image and Video Analysis
The department also has an Adjunct Faculty Member, Professor Venkatesh Raman from Institute of Mathematical
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Electrical Engineering
The  Department  offers  B.Tech.  (Electrical  Engineering),  M.Tech.  (Electrical  Engineering)  and  Ph.D.  Program  with
specialisation in Electrical Engineering. It has some state-of-the-art laboratory and research facilities.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Electrical Engineering: Image Processing, Video Processing, and Signal Processing
application in Bio-Medical
Protection of various components of Power System, Protection of Distribution
Network with DG penetration, Power Quality assessment and mitigation in
Distribution Networks with Renewable Energy Source penetration
Communication  Theory,  Wireless  and  Mobile  Communications,  Satellite  based
Navigation Systems, Spread Spectrum Systems
Control and state estimation of uncertain systems, Power system, Control issues in
wind energy conversion system
Group  III-V  quantum  structures  by  MBE,  Growth  of  thin  films  and  nanostructures,
Group  III-nitride  alloys  for  LEDs,  HEMTs  and  photovoltaic  applications,  Inorganic-
Inorganic  hybrid  structures  with  special  attention  to  band  gap  engineering,  Si  and
wide band gap semiconductors for MEMS, Micro and Nano device fabrications
Signal Processing, Condition Monitoring, Image Processing, Data Compression, Blind
Source Separation, Artificial Neural Network
Anil Kumar Tiwari
Head of Department
Abdul Gafoor Shaik
Arun Kumar Singh
Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Microelectronics  &  VLSI  Technology,  Microfabrication,  Organic  Electronics,  Device
Physics and Characterization, New Device Structures
Shree Prakash Tiwari
Image processing, Noise-aided image processing using Stochastic Resonance, Image
enhancement, Digital watermarking, Image quality assessment
Antenna Design, Microwave circuits and RFIC design
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor R. K. Shyama Sunder, who is a Senior Professor and J. C.
Bose National Fellow at Tata Institute of  Fundamental Research, Mumbai.
Kota  V.  Murali,  Chief  Technologist,  Semiconductor  Research  and  Development  Center,  IBM  India,  Bangalore  is
associated with the department as an Adjunct Faculty Member.
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences operates from spaces that give us an opportunity to act as an
interface between empirical and experiential knowledge systems. Playing a significant role in the academic curriculum of
the young engineers, we offer both core and elective courses at the Bachelors, Masters, and  Doctoral levels. The ability
to provide tools and skills for specific aims notwithstanding, the essence of Humanities and Social Sciences involves the
sensitizing of individuals. Acting as facilitators, thus, we engage in meaningful interactions with students and help them
witness, study, and understand the interplays among technology, society, and humanity. This task assumes even more
significance in an educational context where the brightest young minds of India come together.
With  Faculty  Members  who  specialize  in  diverse  disciplines  (including  Philosophy,  Economics,  Psychology,  and
Literature) and with students from a spectrum of backgrounds, the Department provides an enriching platform -where
technical education can be complemented with human and social understanding. Following are the faculty members
associated with the department:
English: Literature and Environment (Ecocriticism), Film and Literature, Literatures
of the Global South, Regional Literatures in Translation,  American Literature
Psychology: Gerontology, Clinical and Positive Psychology
Philosophy: Applied Ethics, Ethics of Technology, Bioethics
Economics:  Health  Economics,  Health  Policy,  Applied  Econometrics,  Development
Philosophy:  Cognitive  Studies,  Evolutionary  Theory,  Analytic  Philosophy  and
Sociology/Sociocultural  Anthropology:  Gender  Studies;  Postcolonial  South  Asia;
International and Transnational Migrations, Qualitative Research
Head of Department
K. J. George
Rijo M. John
V. Hari Narayanan
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Mathematics
Mathematics, being the basis of many disciplines, is a subject that evolves with time and creates new theories and
models  to  solve  challenging  problems  of  today.  Since  its  inception,  the  department  has  been  taking  a  leading  role
in  developing  new  methods  and  models  that  can  be  used  in  diverse  areas  of  computer  science,  engineering  and
basic  sciences.  The  department  has  faculty  with  research  interests  in  the  areas  of  Mathematical  Physics,  Scientific
Computation,  Numerical  Analysis,  Differential  Equations,    Topological  Dynamics,  Low  Dimensional  Chaos,  Dynamical
Systems,  Renormalization    in  Low-dimensional  dynamics,  Wavelet  Analysis,  Fractional  Transform  Theory,  Image
Processing, Financial Risk Analysis, and Categorical Data Analysis.
The  department  offers  at  undergraduate  and  postgraduate  levels.  It  runs  a  four  year  B.Tech.  Program  in  System
Science, and a Ph.D. Program with specialization in different areas of Mathematics. Following are the Faculty Members
associated with the department:
Theoretical, mathematical and computational aspects of wave-matter interactions
Kirankumar R. Hiremath
Head of Department
Wavelet Analysis, Fractional Transform Theory, Multimedia Security, Image
Processing, Information Fusion
Topological Dynamics, Low Dimensional Chaos
Smooth  Dynamical  Systems,  Renormalization  of  Unimodal  maps  and  Henon-like
V. V. M. S. Chandramouli
Financial Risk Analysis, Categorical Data Analysis, Regression
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Mechanical Engineering
The desire to contribute to national and global causes such as the solar mission and climate change is at the heart
of the academic activities carried out within the Department of Mechanical Engineering. Several application domains of
interest in Mechanical Engineering (such as solar energy, automotive technologies and health) motivate Students, Staff
Members and Faculty Members.
The B.Tech. Program in Mechanical Engineering commenced in 2008, since the inception of the Institute. Since then
three batches have graduated and most of the Alumni are pursuing successful careers in the industry. Some of them
have chosen to pursue higher studies in India, Europe and the United States of America.
During the last six years, several collaborative projects have been initiated with a number of industries and research
laboratories across India (such as Thermax,  Sunborne, Areva, STEAG, BHEL, IOCL, ONGC, BARC, and NFTDC) to pursue
research and development in the area of mechanical engineering.
To respond to the diverse needs of students, broad based Bachelors and Masters Programs in Mechanical Engineering
are  being  designed,  with  scope  to  let  students  specialize  in  interdisciplinary  as  well  as  sub-domains  of  Mechanical
Engineering.  A  Doctoral  Program  is  underway  in  the  Department.  Currently,  about  10  Ph.D.  students  are  pursuing
research in thermal, design and manufacturing streams of Mechanical Engineering. The main objective of the academic
programs is to build capacity and capability necessary to make the nation competitive in the globalized world. Also, the
students are being made aware of professional skills, such as seeking patentable innovations, taking up technology
transfer tasks and active collaboration with industrial partners.
The following Faculty Members are associated with the department:
Design, Dynamics, Vibration and Control
Head of Department
Computational Fluid Dynamics
Water, Water Management and Characterization of Engineered Materials
Anand Krishnan Plappally
Dynamics  of  Machines  and  Structures,  Flexible  Robots,  MEMS,  Rotor  Dynamics,
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Modeling  of  Manufacturing  Processes,  CAD/CAM,  CNC  Machining,  Error
Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Prodyut R. Chakraborty
Solar  thermal  sub-systems  (open  volumetric  air  receiver,  thermal  energy  storage,
air-water  heat  exchanger),  Thermal  hydraulics,  Turbulence  simulation  (DNS/LES/
HYBRID/RANS) & model development, Computational Fluid Dynamics.
Heat  and  mass  transfer,  Latent  heat  based  storage  device  for  high  temperature
applications, Alloy solidification process, Active and passive solar cooling systems,
Welding and joining, Manufacturing and materials processing, Mechanical behaviour
Robotics, Multibody Dynamics and Control
Development and application of reactive force fields (ReaxFF), Density Functional
Theory  (DFT)  and  Tight  Binding  (DFTB)  methods  for  studying  combustion,  solid-
liquid interfaces, surface chemistry and catalysis
Energy  Technology,  Combustion  Technology,  Computational  Fluid  Dynamics,
Turbulent flows, Sprays
Suril V. Shah
Sriram G. Srinivasan
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Physics
A visible research in fundamental Physics along with its applications is the major theme of Physics Department at
IIT Jodhpur. The Faculty members carry out research in the field of Astrophysics, Condensed Matter Physics & Material
Science,  Particle    Physics,  Experimental  and  Theoretical  Quantum  Optics,  Quantum  Information  and  Foundations  of
Quantum Mechanics. The research facilities available in the department include SQUID magnetometer, Physics Property
Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman Spectrometer and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM). Following are the
faculty members associated with the department:
Open Quantum Systems; Quantum Information; Non-Equilibrium Statistical
Mechanics; Quantum Optics
Head of Department
Semiconductors, multifunctional ferroics & materials for energy-fabrication  &
characterization, Photovoltaic materials & devices ab initio DFT study and device
Particle Physics and Cosmology
Ashutosh Kumar Alok
Astrophysics, Astroparticle physics
Information Processing in Biological Systems
Optics  and  Solar  Field  Design,  Plasmonics,  Laser  Produced  Plasmas  (LPP),  Pulsed
Laser  Deposition  (PLD),  Plasma  Diagnostics  (Interferometry  &  Optical  Emission
Spectroscopy (OES)), Laser Matter Interaction and Laser Cluster Interaction
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Light  in  disordered  and  complex  systems,  Mid-IR  photonics  and  unconventional
The department also has a Scholar-in-Residence, Professor K. L. Chopra, Advisor, Thin Film Laboratory, IIT Delhi.
Biologically	Inspired	System	Science	(BISS)
Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) is a stream initiated with the broad objective to design novel, adaptive
and sustainable technological solutions inspired by biological systems and processes. The Institute recognises the need
for  a  test-oriented  singular  education  towards  a  creativity-oriented  quality  multidisciplinary  education,  thereby  blur
existing boundaries between biology and engineering. B.Tech. Program in Biologically Inspired System Science (BISS) is
run by this focus group in collaboration with the Department of Biology.
System	Science	(SS)
The System Science stream was initiated in 2011 to promote and implement interdisciplinary education and research
by adopting a holistic systems thinking approach. Its vision is to transform students into trained graduates with the spirit
of systems thinking in diverse domains of engineered systems, natural systems, and financial systems. The focus group
runs an undergraduate program, B.Tech. in System Science (SS) in collaboration with the Department of Mathematics.
Annual Report 2016-17
Nine new Staff Members joined the Institute during the FY 2016-17. The following are the Staff Members engaged in
various Offices and Departments of the Institute.
Administrative	&	Academic	Staff	Members
Office	of	Academics
Ashok Kumar Khanduri, Deputy Registrar
Gaurav Nigam, Superintendent
Abhay Kumar Awasthi, Junior Assistant
Rashmi Dhyani, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Accounts	&	Internal	Audit
Manish Kumar Bhomia, Assistant Registrar
Ashish Kachhawaha, Superintendent
Naresh Chouhan, Junior Superintendent
Rakesh Kumar, Junior Assistant
Biswajit Pramanik, Junior Assistant
Sapna Sankhla, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Administration
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar
Sandeep Singh Chandel, Superintendent
Neeraj Kumar, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Alumni	Relations	&	Student	Placement
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar
Gaurav Nigam, Superintendent
Gurpreet Kaur Virdi, Assistant
Office	of	Director
Darsh Kumar Khatwani, Assistant
T. Madhavi Lata, Stenographer (on Deputation to IIT Tirupati)
Office	of	Establishment
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar
Sandeep Singh Chandel, Superintendent
Sharad Srivastava, Senior Assistant
Ajay Kumar Singh, Junior Assistant
Narayan Dadhich, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Infrastructure	Engineering
Sanjeeb Mukherjee, Executive Engineer (Civil)
Vinay Kumar, Assistant Engineer (Electrical)
Chandresh Pareek, Junior Engineer (Civil)
Dheeraj Updhyay, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Infrastructure	Management
Shashank Choudhary, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Library
Kshema Prakash, Deputy Librarian
Amit Kumar Soni, Senior Library & Information Assistant
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Chunni Chhatwani, Senior Library & Information Assistant
Kamleshkumar J. Patel, Senior Library & Information Assistant
Office	of	Planning
Amardeep Sharma, Deputy Registrar (Planning)
Trilotama Singh, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Recruitment
Sandeep Pareek, Junior Superintendent
Achinta Mondal, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Students,
Ashok Kumar Khanduri, Deputy Registrar
Gaurav Nigam, Superintendent
Dhani Ram Choudhary, Stenographer
Swati Kushwaha, Junior Assistant
Ram Niwas Dhayal, Junior Assistant
Office	of	Stores	&	Purchase
Sharabh Pradhan, Junior Superintendent
Suresh Chandra Phulara, Junior Assistant
Technical	Staff	Members
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Rimpesh Katiyar, Technical Superintendent
Dheerendra Kumar Yadav, Junior Technical Superintendent
Rinkesh Kumar Mangal, Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam Chand Sankhla, Junior Technical Superintendent
Ram Singh Ratnu, Technician
Vivek Verma, Junior Technician
Department of Electrical Engineering
Bhanprakash Goswami, Junior Technical Superintendent
Gajraj Sharma, Junior Technician
Hemraj Dhodhawat, Junior Technician
Kailash Chander, Junior Technician
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Praveen Suthar, Junior Technician
Bhagya Wardhan, Junior Technician
Rambeer Singh, Junior Technician
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Bharat Pareek, Junior Technical Superintendent
Poonam, Junior Technician
Department of Chemistry
Ganpat Chowdhary, Junior Technician
Shubham Pandey, Junior Technician
Department of Physics
Narendra Kumar Singh, Technical Superintendent
Annual Report 2016-17
Currently, the Institute offers the following four sets of Programs:
1.  Bachelor of Technology Programs:
1.  B.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering)
2.  B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
3.  B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
2.  Master of Science Programs
1.  M.Sc. (Chemistry)
2.  M.Sc. (Mathematics)
3.  M.Sc. (Physics)
3.  Master of Technology Programs
1.  M.Tech. (Electrical Engieering)
2.  M.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
4.  Doctor of Philosophy Programs
1.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Computer Science & Engineering
2.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Electrical Engineering
3.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Mechanical Engineering
4.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Biology
5.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Chemistry
6.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Mathematics
7.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Physics
8.  Ph.D. with specialisation in Humanities & Social Sciences
Following Ph.D. Students defended their theses successfully in this year.
S. No. Name of the Student Title of Thesis
for Cross Layer Design
Optimization and its
Mitigation of Negative
Impedance Instabilities in
DC/DC Converters and DC
Microgrids using Nonlinear
Development of Spectrally
Selective Absorber Materials
and Coatings for Photothermal
Sandeep Yadav &
Date of Defense
25 April 2016
3 May 2016
6 March 2017
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Collaborations with Academia
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with six international universities, two international
agencies,  three  national  institutes  and  universities,  and  one  national  agency  for  furthering  cooperation  on  specific
fronts. These MoUs are:
(a)	International	Institutes	and	Universities
1. University of Western Ontario, Canada (9 August 2010)
To  explore  the  possibilities  for  cooperation  in  education,  training,  and  research  and  also  to  encourage  direct
contact and mutual cooperation between faculty members, departments, and research centers.
2. Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29 August 2010)
For the development of mutually beneficial academic program and courses; coordination of academic staff travel
for the purposes of teaching, research, and training; cooperation of student mobility program for study, research, and
for joint academic activities such as research publications, conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation
and research materials in the field of mutual interest provided that there are no legal barriers against exchange and
collaboration in international master’s and doctoral programs between both the institutions.
3. University of Waterloo, Canada (25 November 2010)
For  collaborative  measures  to  foster  international  experience  and  advancement  of  knowledge  on  the  basis  of
reciprocity, mutual benefit, interaction and exchange of students in graduate programs.
4. University of Manitoba, Canada (9 December 2010)
For  the  development  of  mutually  beneficial  programs  for  student  internships  and  graduate  study  in  order  to
provide students opportunities for advancement of knowledge and international experience.
5. University of California, Merced (26 April 2011)
For the development of mutually beneficial relationships for promoting academic exchange, scholarly cooperation,
and collaborations under mutually agreeable terms and conditions: the exchange of faculty members, scientists and
students and scientific material, access to library resources, pursuit of joint meetings, symposia and/or conferences
and access to laboratories as may be appropriate and feasible in the two institutes.
6. Arid Forest Research Institute, Jodhpur, India (15 August 2011)
For the development of sheltering belt plantation as urban forestry  model for at a selected site at IIT Jodhpur.
7. Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28 February 2012)
To  promote  academic  exchanges  in  fields  where  each  party  needs  to  enhance  its  educational  and  academic
programs: the academic exchanges will include, implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures
and  education  and  exchange  of  scholars,  researchers,  and  administrative  staff;  exchange  of  information  in  fields
which are of interest to both parties and exchange of graduate students in fields of interest to both parties.
(b)	International	Agencies
1. The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives, France (22 November 2010)
To  cooperate  in  areas  of  solar  energy  research,  such  as  Concentrated  Solar  Power  (CSP)  and  Concentrated
Photovoltaic  (CPV),  water  production  by  using  solar  energy,  renewable  energy  storage  and  smart  management,
integration of solar energies and energy efficiency in buildings.
2. Embassy of France in India (28 March 2011)
To explore prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French language effectively.
Annual Report 2016-17
(c)	National	Institutes	and	Universities
1. All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
2. National Law University, Jodhpur
To collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
3. Sardar Patel University of Police, Security, and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur (12 June 2013)
To  promote  academic  exchanges  in  fields  where  each  party  needs  to  enhance  its  educational  and  academic
Collaborations with Industry
IIT Jodhpur has initiated to collaborate with industry towards enhancing the learning experience of students and
collaboration opportunities for Faculty Members. These include:
1.  Vanguard Lectures; and
2.  Industry Immersion Program.
The  Vanguard  Lecture  Series  is  an  integral  part  of  Blended  B.Tech.  Program.  It  enables  the  Students  to  listen  to
inspirational talks given by experts from Industry and Academia, and to get a big-picture of the technological advances
and emerging trends in different fields.
In the year 2016-17, two more series of Vanguard Lectures were organised since July 2016, namely:
Series 5: July 2016
1.  Series 5: July 2016, and
2.  Series 6: January 2017.
The following are the details of speakers and topics covered in the two series.
S. No. Speaker & Topic
Senior Vice President
“Future of Manufacturing Technologies”
28 July 2016
Arun T. Ramchandani
Larsen & Toubro Limited, Mumbai
“Defence Technologies and Products”
29 July 2016
A. K. Jindal
Head Engineering Commercial Vehicles
Tata Motors India
01 August 2016
Prakash Rao Malathkar
Associate Chief Engineer
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
“Global Technological Advancement Trends of Automotive Passenger Car Powertrains”
05 August 2016
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Tata Consultancy Services
“Real Time Contextual Intelligence for Enterprises”
08 August 2016
Ashok Kumar Panda
Head, Core Technology
Tata Power Company Limited
“Overview of Challenges in Thermal Power & The Role of C&I in Power Industry”
09 August 2016
“Distributed Computing + Databases = Distributed Databases”
10 January 2017
Professor N. Ramakrishnan
“Innovation, Design & Product Development”
20 January 2017
Professor Subir Kumar Saha
Professor and Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
“R2: Robotics to Rural”
01 February 2017
Series 6: January 2017
Industry Immersion Program
In July 2014, when the Institute launched the blended Technical Education model at the B.Tech. level, the intent was
to inspire students to build passion for technology to solve the grand technology challenges of the Indian Industry. One
of the elements of the model is to have industry captains give the first lectures of each course to lay the cornerstone by
giving the big-picture of sectoral technologies, industry needs and research opportunities. The model gained momentum
with Vanguard Lecture Series, and now this has become a distinctive feature of the blended Technical Education Model for
the B.Tech. Program of the Institute. Then, this is being followed by the Grand Technology Projects (GTPs) Competition
that is held during January-March, every year. Most students prefer converting their B.Tech. Projects to GTPs.
Currently, five industry partners have joined the Industry Immersion Program at the B.Tech. level, namely:
(1)   Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Mumbai;
(2)   Larsen & Toubro Limited, Mumbai;
(3)  Tata Motors Limited, Mumbai;
(4)  TVS Motor Company Limited, Chennai; and
(5)  Tata Power Limited, Mumbai.
Annual Report 2016-17
R & D Projects
The Faculty Members in the Institute are currently working on 55 sponsored research projects. Their details are:
S. No. Project Title
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Identification,	assessment	and	characterization	of	E3	ubiquitin	ligases	implicated	in	the	neurodegenerative
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 74.5 Lakhs
Understanding the molecular function of MGRN1 in Chaperone Mediated Autophagy
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 41.19 Lakhs
How AMFR gene regulates cell division and cancer after stress exposure?
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 23.9 Lakhs
How	LRASM1	gene	regulates	cellular	protein	quality	control	functions?	Implications	in
neurodegeneration and ageing
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Amit Mishra
Rs. 23.10 Lakhs
Bioremediation	of	low	level	wastes	including	denitrification	using	microbial	fuel	cells
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra; Co-PI: Atul Kumar
Rs. 23.73 Lakhs
Development	of	low	cost	Microbial	Carbon	capture	(MCC)	cells	for	algae	cultivation	and
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Meenu Chhabra
Rs. 172 Lakhs
Deposition of particulate matter in lungs
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha
Rs. 24.79 Lakhs
Role	of	the	inflammasome	associated	proteins	in	glioma
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Jha
Rs. 22.30 Lakhs
Integrative	Approach	for	Identification	of	Disease	Genes	of	Type	II	Diabetes
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Sushmita Paul
Rs. 26.76 Lakhs
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Chemistry
10. Dual scale simulations of surfactant, co-surfactant water system
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ananya Debnath
Rs. 21.7 Lakhs
Chemical Dynamics Simulations of Complex Organic Reactions
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Manikandan Paranjothy
Rs. 18.7 Lakhs
Catalytic Upgrading of Bio-Oil to Transport Fuel
Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India
PI: Rakesh Kumar Sharma
Rs. 94.79 Lakhs
13. Development of electrochemical energy storage from carbon rich waste
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ritu Gupta
Rs. 37.17 Lakhs
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
14. Design	of	efficient	algorirthms	for	multiple	choice	resource	allocation	problem
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Aritra Banik
Rs. 9.78 Lakhs
15. Development of Multimodal Search Framework For Architeetural Floor Plan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay
Rs. 24.5 Lakhs
Energy	Efficient	Technologies	for	Smart	Buildings
The Indo-US Science and Technology Forum (IUSSTF), Department of Science & Technology, Government of India
PI: Venkata Ramana Badarla
Rs. 1.3 Crores
Department of Electrical Engineering
Enabling Technologies for Intelligent Wireless Sensor Network for Health and Environment Monitoring
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari
Rs. 75 Lakhs
Visveswaraya Ph.D. Scholarship scheme for Electronics & IT
Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India
PI: Anil Kumar Tiwari
Rs. 16.25 Lakhs
Computationally	efficient	fixed	complexity	sphere	decodes	for	multiuser	MIMO
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Arun Kumar Singh
Rs. 22.82 Lakhs
20. Development	of	Programmable	Emulator	for	Photovoltaic	Plant	to	Facilitate	Complex	Testing	Requirements
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Deepakkumar M. Fulwani
Rs. 9.48 Lakhs
21. Development of Metal Doped TiO2 Low Dimension Structures by Sputtering for Gas Sensing Applications
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 17.46 Lakhs
Annual Report 2016-17
Ion-Beam Synthesis and Characterization of Gallium Nitride Based Nanocrystals embedded in Si based
Matrices for New-Generation Photodetector and Light-Emitter Applications
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 55.72 Lakhs
23. Development of mems based gas sensors using RF sputtered transition metal doped ZnO
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 24.17 Lakhs
24. Development of Tunable RF Filter Based on Ferroelectric Thin Film by Sputtering
Indian National Science Academy
PI: Mahesh Kumar
Rs. 5 Lakhs
25. Noise-enhanced Edge-preserving Image Denoising using Stochastic Resonance
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Rajlaxmi Chouhan
Rs. 26.64 Lakhs
26. Algorithms for Blind Signal Detection and Demodulation
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Sandeep Kumar Yadav
Rs. 55.24 Lakhs
27. Developing Dielectric Semiconductor Combinations and Processes for Flexible Organic
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 12.84 Lakhs
28. Design	of	a	sensor	signal	conditioning	system(I)	&	multiprocessor	Scheduling	Algorithms	using	control
Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 99.72 Lakhs
Encapsulation	of	Organic	devices	by	atomic	layer	deposition(DRDO	CAR	Proposal)
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Shree Prakash Tiwari
Rs. 9.96 Lakhs
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
30. Wisdom as cognitive and motivational-emotional heuristics in ecologically rational decision making
Department of Science & Technology, Government of India
PI: Ankita Sharma
Rs. 22.3 Lakhs
31. Where the Bougainvillea Blooms: Stories of Place from a Resilient Landscape
M. R. A. R. Educational Foundation
PI: Vidya Sarveswaran
Rs. 0.5 Lakhs
Department of Mathematics
32. Multimedia security based on biometrics for copyright protection and authentication
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB),
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Gaurav Bhatnagar
Rs. 22 Lakhs
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
33. Automorphism Groups of Induced Symbolic Systems
National Board for Higher Mathematics (NBHM), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Puneet Sharma
Rs. 3.32 Lakhs
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Local Composite geotextile mats for soil and water conservation in western Rajasthan
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB),
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally
Rs. 21.5 Lakhs
35. Unnat Bharat Abhiyan
Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD), Government of India
PI: Anand Krishnan Plappally
Rs. 3.77 Lakhs
36. Bifurcation and Stability Assessment of a Highly Lightweight Rotor-Bearing System with
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Barun Pratiher
Rs. 21.8 Lakhs
37. Minimizing	deflection	induced	surface	errors	in	end	milling	of	thin	walled	components
Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB),
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Kaushalkumar A. Desai
Rs. 15.3 Lakhs
Establishment of the Centre of Excellence in Solar Thermal Research and Education
Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, Government of India
PI: Laltu Chandra
Rs. 40 Crores
IOC-BHEL-IITJ CSP Plant
Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.
PI: Laltu Chandra
Rs. 60 Lakhs
Thermal Design of PCM Cool and Warm Vest
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty
Rs. 9.96 Lakhs
41. Hybrid reactionless manipulation and visual serving of a satellite mounted robot for autonomous on orbit
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah
Rs. 35 Lakhs
Singularity free reactionless manipulation of a satellite mounted dual-arm robot for capture
of tumbling orbiting object
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Suril Vijaykumar Shah
Rs. 24.77 Lakhs
Department of Physics
43. Development	of	III-Nitrides	thin	film(s)	for	high	frequency	saw	device	applications
Department of Space, Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 22.62 Lakhs
Annual Report 2016-17
44. Development of Ferroelectric and their composite with hexaferrites for microwave absorption applications
Defense Research & Development Organization (DRDO), Jodhpur, Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 9.55 Lakhs
Investigation of Magnetoelectric coupling in Cu1-xTMxO Multiferroic System
Board of Research in Nuclear Sciences (BRNS), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 23.42 Lakhs
46. Development	of	plasmonic	metal	hybrid	electrode	system	for	II-VI	quantum	dot	sensitized
solar	cells	(QDSSCs)	realization	of	carrier	multiplication	for	better	efficiency
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 32.87 Lakhs
47. Design	and	development	of	high	capacity	and	low	cost	Li2TMSio4(TM=transition	metals)	silicate	materials
for future rechargeable lithium ion battery
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 23.88 Lakhs
Probing Magnetic Structures and Spin Flop transition in bulk and nanostructured FeVo4
UGC-DAE, Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
49. Devolopment	of	nanostructured	Cu2ZnSn(S/Se)4	thin	films	and	their	electronic	properties	for	next
genration solar photovoltaic applications
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Ambesh Dixit
Rs. 37.22 Lakhs
50. Hunting of New Physics Through b-> S Transitions
Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Ashutosh K. Alok
Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee Rs. 11.92 Lakhs
Synchrony	Based	Evolution	of	Various	Biological	and	Artificial	Systems	to	Understand	Complex
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Satyajit Sahu
Rs. 35 Lakhs
52. Application	specialty	optical	fibres	and	towards	1D	random	lasers	in	disordered	lattices
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Somnath Ghosh
Rs. 35 Lakhs
53. Graph Theoretical Aspects in Quantum Information Processing
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 9.92 Lakhs
54. A	Study	of	quantum	correlations	:	Squeezing	and	its	various	facets
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 5.10 Lakhs
Probing the Foundations of Quantum Mechanics in Neutrino Oscillations
Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India
PI: Subhashish Banerjee
Rs. 10.08 Lakhs
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Patents & Publications
In 2016-17, our Faculty Members have filed 2 patents, published 89 research papers and articles in scholarly journals;
20 of their works have been covered as conference presentations and in conference proceedings; 12 preprints, 1 authored
book and 3 book chapters have been contributed.
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Humanities & Social Sciences
Annual Report 2016-17
The following is the department-wise list of patents and publications.
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Amanullah, A., Upadhyay, A., Chhangani, D., Joshi, V., Mishra, R., Yamanaka, K., & Mishra, A. (2016).
Proteasomal Dysfunction Induced by Diclofenac Engenders Apoptosis through Mitochondrial Pathway. Journal of
Cellular Biochemistry. ISSN: 1097-4644.
Anand, B. G., Dubey, K., Shekhawat, D. S., & Kar, K. (2016). Capsaicin-coated silver nanoparticles inhibit amyloid
fibril formation of serum albumin. Biochemistry. ISSN: 0006-2960.
Arora, N., Tripathi, S., Sao, R., Mondal, P., Mishra, A. K., & Prasad, A. (2017). Molecular Neuro-Pathomechanism
of Neurocysticercosis: How Host Genetic Factors Influence Disease Susceptibility. Molecular Neurobiology, 1–7.
Harinipriya, S., Kalra, A., & Mishra, A. K. (2016). Physiochemical Characterization of tubulin from Arachis
hypogaea. Synthetic Metals, 220, 86–94. ISSN: 0379-6779. http://doi.org/10.1016/j.synthmet.2016.04.021
Hoop, C. L., Lin, H.-K., Kar, K., Magyarfalvi, G., Lamley, J. M., Boatz, J. C., Mandal, A., Lewandowski, J. R.,
Wetzel, R. & Van der Wel, P. C. A. (2016). Huntingtin exon 1 fibrils feature an interdigitated β-hairpin–based
polyglutamine core. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 113(6), 1546–1551. ISSN: 1091-6490.
Jha, S., Brickey, W. J., & Ting, J. P.-Y. (2017). Inflammasomes in Myeloid Cells: Warriors Within. Microbiology
Spectrum, 5(1). ISSN: 2165-0497.
Joshi, V., Amanullah, A., Upadhyay, A., Mishra, R., Kumar, A., & Mishra, A. (2016). A Decade of Boon or Burden:
What Has the CHIP Ever Done for Cellular Protein Quality Control Mechanism Implicated in Neurodegeneration
and Aging? Frontiers in Molecular Neuroscience, 93. ISSN: 1662-5099.
Paul, S., Lakatos, P., Hartmann, A., Schneider-Stock, R., & Vera, J. (2017). Identification of miRNA-mRNA
Modules in Colorectal Cancer Using Rough Hypercuboid Based Supervised Clustering. Scientific Reports, 7,
42809. ISSN: 2045-2322.
Saxena, S., & Jha, S. (2017). Role of NOD- like Receptors in Glioma Angiogenesis: Insights into future therapeutic
interventions. Cytokine & Growth Factor Reviews. ISSN: 1359-6101.
Sharma, N., Suresh, S., Debnath, A., & Jha, S. (2017). Trigonella seed extract ameliorates inflammation via
regulation of the inflammasome adaptor protein, ASC. Frontiers in Bioscience (Elite Edition), 9, 246–257. ISSN:
11. Upadhyay, A., Amanullah, A., Mishra, R., Kumar, A., & Mishra, A. K. (2017). Lanosterol Suppresses the
Aggregation and Cytotoxicity of Misfolded Proteins Linked with Neurodegenerative Diseases. Molecular
Neurobiology, 1–14. ISSN: 1559-1182.
12.  Vyas, S., & Chhabra, M. (2017). Isolation, identification and characterization of Cystobasidium oligophagum JRC1:
A cellulase and lipase producing oleaginous yeast. Bioresource Technology, 223, 250–258. ISSN: 0960-8524.
1. Maji, P., & Paul, S. (2016). Fundamentals of Rough-Fuzzy Clustering and Its Application in Bioinformatics. In
Pattern Recognition and Big Data (Vols. 1–0, pp. 513–543). World Scientific. ISBN: 978-981-314-454-5.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Upadhyay, A., Amanullah, A., Joshi, V., Mishra, R., & Mishra, A. K. (2016). Molecular and Cellular Insights:
Neuroinflammation and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. In N. Jana, A. Basu, & P. N. Tandon (Eds.), Inflammation:
the Common Link in Brain Pathologies (pp. 209–230). Springer Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-1711-7.
Department of Chemistry
“Sub-zero Temperature process for production of high surface area, phase and dimensionally controlled
nano-titania for solar cell and water treatment application thereof”
Patent Application Number
“Facet controlled preparation of metal hexagonal nano crystal/carbon materials  catalyst and application
Patent Application Number
Rakesh K. Sharma & Poonam Darshana Sharma
08 June 2016
Rakesh K. Sharma & Kiran Prakash Shejale
08 June 2016
Gupta, N., Rao, K. D. M., Gupta, R., Krebs, F. C., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2017). Highly Conformal Ni Micromesh as a
Current Collecting Front Electrode for Reduced Cost Si Solar Cell. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 9(10),
8634–8640. ISSN: 1944-8252.
Gupta, R., & Fisher, T. S. (2016). Scalable Coating of Single Source Ni Hexadecanethiolate Precursor on
3D-Graphitic Petals for Asymmetric Supercapacitor. Energy Technology. ISSN: 2194-4296.
Gupta, R., Kumar, A., Sadasivam, S., Walia, S., Kulkarni, G. U., Fisher, T. S., & Marconnet, A. M. (2017).
Microscopic Evaluation of Electrical and Thermal Conduction in Random Metal Wire Networks. ACS Applied
Materials & Interfaces. ISSN: 1944-8252.
Gupta, R., Rao, K. D. M., Kiruthika, S., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2016). Visibly Transparent Heaters. ACS Applied
Materials & Interfaces, 8(20), 12559–12575. ISSN: 1944-8244.
Laishram, D., Shejale, K. P., Sharma, R. K., & Gupta, R. (2016). HfO2 nanodots incorporated in TiO2 and its
hydrogenation for high performance dye sensitized solar cells. RSC Advances, 6(82), 78768–78773. ISSN: 2046-2069.
Lunkad, R., Srivastava, A., & Debnath, A. (2017). Influence of water concentrations on the phase transformation
of a model surfactant/co-surfactant/water system. Chemical Physics, 483–484, 103–111.
Pandey, S., Soni, V. K., Choudhary, G., Sharma, P. R., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). Understanding Behaviour of
Vitamin-C Guest Binding with the Cucurbit[6]uril host. Supramolecular Chemistry, 29(5), 387-394. ISSN: 1061-0278.
Ram, P., Gören, A., Ferdov, S., Silva, M. M., Singhal, R., Costa, C. M., Sharma, R. K. & Lanceros-Méndez, S.
(2016). Improved performance of rare earth doped LiMn2O4 cathodes for lithium-ion battery applications. New
Journal of Chemistry. ISSN: 1369-9261.
RRam, P., Gören, A., Ferdov, S., Silva, M. M., Choudhary, G., Singhal, R., Costa, C. M., Sharma, R. K. &
Lanceros-Méndez, S. (2017) (2017). Synthesis and improved electrochemical performance of LiMn2 – xGdxO4
based cathodes. Solid State Ionics, 300, 18–25. ISSN: 0167-2738.
Annual Report 2016-17
Sharma, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). Asymmetric Hydrogenation of α-ketoesters on Pt(111) Surface. New Journal
of Chemistry. ISSN: 1369-9261.
Sharma, P., & Sharma, R. K. (2017). Platinum functionalized Chiral Polyamides: Efficient Heterogeneous Catalyst
for Solvent Free Asymmetric Hydrogenation of Ethyl 2-oxo-4-phenylbutanoate. ChemistrySelect, 2(1), 513–520.
Shejale, K. P., Laishram, D., Gupta, R., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). Zinc Oxide–Titania Heterojunction-based Solid
Nanospheres as Photoanodes for Electron-Trapping in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Energy Technology. ISSN: 2194-
Singh, P., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2016.). Usefulness of Multiqubit w-type States in Quantum Information
Processing. Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics, 150 (4), 666-676.
Soni, V. K., & Sharma, R. K. (2016). Palladium-Nanoparticles-Intercalated Montmorillonite Clay: A Green Catalyst
for the Solvent-Free Chemoselective Hydrogenation of Squalene. ChemCatChem.
15. Walia, S., Gupta, R., Rao, K. D. M., & Kulkarni, G. U. (2016). Transparent Pd Wire Network-Based Areal Hydrogen
Sensor with Inherent Joule Heater. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces, 8(35), 23419–23424.
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Amayri, M., Arora, A., Ploix, S., Bandhyopadyay, S., Ngo, Q.-D., & Badarla, V. R. (2016). Estimating Occupancy
in Heterogeneous Sensor Environment. Energy and Buildings, 129, 46–58. ISSN: 0378-7788.
Kalshetti, P., Bundele, M., Rahangdale, P., Jangra, D., Chattopadhyay, C., Harit, G., & Elhence, A. (2017). An
interactive medical image segmentation framework using iterative refinement. Computers in Biology and
Medicine, 83, 22–33. ISSN: 0010-4825.
Rathore, H., Badarla, V. R., & Shit, S. (2016). Consensus-Aware Sociopsychological Trust Model for Wireless
Sensor Networks. ACM Trans. Sen. Netw., 12(3), 21:1–21:27. ISSN: 1550-4867.
Bandyapadhyay, S., & Banik, A. (2017). Polynomial Time Algorithms for Bichromatic Problems. In Algorithms
and Discrete Applied Mathematics (pp. 12–23). Springer, Cham. ISBN: 978-3-319-53007-9.
Banik, A., Panolan, F., Badarla, V. R., & Sahlot, V. (2016). Fréchet Distance Between a Line and Avatar Point Set.
In A. Lal, S. Akshay, S. Saurabh, & S. Sen (Eds.), 36th IARCS Annual Conference on Foundations of Software
Technology and Theoretical Computer Science (FSTTCS 2016) (Vol. 65, p. 32:1–32:14). Dagstuhl, Germany:
Schloss Dagstuhl–Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Informatik.
Dey, A. U., & Harit, G. (2016). Generating Synthetic Handwriting Using N-gram Letter Glyphs. In Ahuja, Narendra
& Bora, Prabin K. (Eds.), Proceedings of the Tenth Indian Conference on Computer Vision, Graphics and
Image Processing (p. 49:1–49:8). New York, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN: 978-1-4503-
Jain, H., & Harit, G. (2016). A Framework to Assess Sun Salutation Videos. In In Ahuja, Narendra & Bora, Prabin
K. (Eds.), Proceedings of the Tenth Indian Conference on Computer Vision, Graphics and Image Processing
(p. 29:1–29:8). New York, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN: 978-1-4503-4753-2.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sharma, D., Chattopadhyay, C., & Harit, G. (2016). A unified framework for semantic matching of architectural
floorplans. In 2016 23rd International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR) (pp. 2422–2427). ISBN: 978-1-
Sharma, K., & Badarla, V. (2016). FlowFurl: A flow-level routing for faulty data center networks. In 2016 IEEE
International Conference on Advanced Networks and Telecommunications Systems (ANTS) (pp. 1–6). ISBN:
Bansal, A., Roy, S. D., & Harit, G. (2016). Extraction of Layout Entities and Sub-layout Query-based Retrieval of
Document Images. arXiv:1609.02687 [Cs].
Department of Electrical Engineering
Barala, S. S., Banerjee, N., & Kumar, M. (2016). Effect of Gamma Ray Irradiation on Epitaxial Pb(Zr,Ti)O3 /SrRuO3
Tunable Varactor Devices. Journal of Electronic Materials, 45(8), 4122–4128. ISSN: 0361-5235.
Barala, S. S., Roul, B., Banerjee, N., & Kumar, M. (2016). Modulation of Pb Chemical state of epitaxial lead
zirconate titanate thin films under high energy irradiation. Journal of Applied Physics, 120(11), 115305. ISSN:
Bharti, D., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). Phase separation induced high mobility and electrical stability in organic field-
effect transistors. Synthetic Metals. 221, 186-191. ISSN: 0379-6779.
Bharti, D., Raghuwanshi, V., Varun, I., Mahato, A. K., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). High Performance and Electro-
Mechanical Stability in Small Molecule: Polymer Blend Flexible Organic Field-Effect Transistors. IEEE Electron
Device Letters, PP(99), 1–1.
Dokania, V., Islam, A., Dixit, V., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). Analytical Modeling of Wrap-Gate Carbon Nanotube FET
With Parasitic Capacitances and Density of States. IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, PP(99), 1–6. ISSN:
Joshi, V., Soni, A., Tiwari, S. P., & Shrivastava, M. (2016). A Comprehensive Computational Modeling Approach
and Device Design Guidelines for AlGaN/GaN HEMTs: Part I. IEEE Transactions on Nanotechnology, 1–1. ISSN:
Korolev, D. S., Mikhaylov, A. N., Belov, A. I., Konakov, A. A., Vasiliev, V. K., Nikolitchev, D. E., Surodin, S. I.,
Tetelbaum, D. I. & Kumar, M. (2017). Composition and luminescence of Si and SiO2 layers co-implanted with Ga
and N ions. International Journal of Nanotechnology, 14(7–8), 637–645. ISSN: 1475-7435.
Kumar, M., Bhati, V. S., Ranwa, S., Singh, J., & Kumar, M. (2017). Pd/ZnO nanorods based sensor for highly
selective detection of extremely low concentration hydrogen. Scientific Reports, 7(1), 236. ISSN: 2045-2322.
Lu, H. f, Elia, P., & Singh, A. K. (2016). Performance-Complexity Analysis for MAC ML-Based Decoding With User
Selection. IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 64(7), 1867–1880. ISSN: 1053-587X.
10. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Power quality improvement in distribution network using DSTATCOM with
battery  energy  storage  system.  International  Journal  of  Electrical  Power  &  Energy  Systems,  83,  229–240.
Annual Report 2016-17
11. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2017). Comprehensive overview of grid interfaced solar photovoltaic systems.
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 68, Part 1, 316–332. ISSN: 1364-0321.
12. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2017). Power quality recognition in distribution system with solar energy
penetration using S-transform and Fuzzy C-means clustering. Renewable Energy, 106, 37-51. ISSN: 1879-0682.
13. Meng, L., Shafiee, Q., Trecate, G. F., Karimi, H., Fulwani, D. M., Lu, X., & Guerrero, J. M. (2017). Review on
Control of DC Microgrids. IEEE Journal of Emerging and Selected Topics in Power Electronics, PP(99), 1–1.
Raghuwanshi, V., Bharti,  D., Varun, I., Mahato, A. K., & Tiwari, S. P. (2016). Performance enhancement in
mechanically stable flexible organic-field effect transistors with TIPS-pentacene: polymer blend. Organic
Electronics, 34, 284–288. ISSN: 1566-1199.
Ranwa, S., Barala, S. S., Fanetti, M., & Kumar, M. (2016). Effect of gamma irradiation on Schottky-contacted
vertically aligned ZnO nanorod-based hydrogen sensor. Nanotechnology, 27(34), 345502. ISSN: 1361-6528.
Rathore, B., & Shaik, A. G. (2017). Wavelet-alienation based transmission line protection scheme. IET
Generation, Transmission & Distribution, 11(4), 995–1003. ISSN: 1751-8695.
Shetty, A., Kumar, M., Roul, B., Vinoy, K. J., & Krupanidhi, S. B. (2016). InN Quantum Dot Based Infra-Red
Photodetectors. Journal of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, 16(1), 709–714. ISSN: 1533-4880.
Singh, S., Gautam, A. R., & Fulwani, D. M. (2017). Constant power loads and their effects in DC distributed
power systems: A review. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 72, 407–421. ISSN: 1364-0321.
Tripathi, S., Mohan, A., & Yadav, S. K. (2016). A Compact UWB Koch Fractal Antenna for UWB Antenna Array
Applications. Wireless Personal Communications, 1–20. ISSN: 0929-6212.
Bhandari, M., Fulwani, D. M., & Gupta, R. (2017). Event triggered control of two time scale system. In 2017
Indian Control Conference (ICC) (pp. 309–314). ISBN: 978-1-5090-1795-9.
Bhandari, M., Fulwani, D. M., & Gupta, R. (2017). Event triggered control of singularly perturbec linear system
based on its slow and fast model. In 2017 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT) (pp.
791–796). Toronto, ON, Canada. ISBN: 978-1-5090-5320-9.
Gautam, A. R., Fulwani, D. M. & Guerrero, J. (2016). A comprehensive study and analysis of second order
harmonic ripple in DC microgrid feeding single phase PWM inverter loads. In IECON 2016 - 42nd Annual
Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society (pp. 3648–3653). ISBN: 978-1-5090-3474-1.
4. Mahela, O. P., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Recognition of power quality disturbances using S-transform and Fuzzy
C-means clustering. In 2016 International Conference on Cogeneration, Small Power Plants and District Energy
(ICUE) (pp. 1–6). ISBN: 978-9-7482-5792-1.
5. Mahia, R. N., & Fulwani, D. M. (2017). Selection of optimal set of driver nodes based on networked sensitivity in
complex networked systems. In 2017 Indian Control Conference (ICC) (pp. 332–337). ISBN: 978-1-5090-1795-9.
Rathore, N., & Fulwani, D. M. (2016). Event triggered control scheme for power converters. In IECON 2016 -
42nd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society (pp. 1342–1347). ISBN: 978-1-5090-3474-1.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Singh, M., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Bearing fault diagnosis of a three phase induction motor using stockwell
transform. In 2016 IEEE Annual India Conference (INDICON) (pp. 1–6). ISBN: 978-1-5090-3646-2.
Sree, Y. M., Kumar, G. R., & Shaik, A. G. (2016). Multi-terminal transmission line protection using wavelet based
digital relay in the presence of wind energy source. In 2016 International Conference on Electrical, Electronics,
and Optimization Techniques (ICEEOT) (pp. 4124–4128). ISBN: 978-1-4673-9939-5.
Fulwani, D. M., & Singh, S. (2017). Mitigation of Negative Impedance Instabilities in DC Distribution Systems.
Singapore: Springer Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-2071-1.
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Narayanan, V. H. (2016). Voice in the Head: The Road Ahead. Journal of Indian Council of Philosophical
Research, 1–16.ISSN: 0970-7794.
Owusu, D., Mamudu, H. M., John, R. M., Ibrahim, A., Ouma, A. E. O., & Veeranki, S. P. (2016). Never-Smoking
Adolescents’ Exposure to Secondhand Smoke in Africa. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 51(6),
983–998. ISSN: 0749-3797.
Thimm, V., Chaudhuri, M., & Mahler, S. J. (2017). Enhancing Intersectional Analyses with Polyvocality: Making
and Illustrating the Model. Social Sciences, 6(2), 37. ISSN: 2076-0760.
Veeranki, S. P., John, R. M., Ibrahim, A., Pillendla, D., Thrasher, J. F., Owusu, D., Ouma, A. E. O., and Mamudu,
H. M. (2016). Age of smoking initiation among adolescents in Africa. International Journal of Public Health,
1–10. ISSN: 1661-8564.
Department of Mathematics
Bhatnagar, G. (2016). Robust covert communication using high capacity watermarking. Multimedia Tools and
Applications, 1–25. ISSN: 1573-7721.
Chakrawarty, P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2016). Image thresholding based on local activity feature matrix. Optik -
International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, 127(20), 9037–9045. ISSN: 0030-4026.
Li, H., Hiremath, K. R., Rieder, A., & Freude, W. (2017). Adaptive wavelet collocation method for simulation of a 2D
micro-ring resonator. Optik - International Journal for Light and Electron Optics, 131, 655–670. ISSN: 0030-4026.
Singh, S. P., & Bhatnagar, G. (2017). A Novel Chaos Based Robust Watermarking Framework. In B. Raman, S.
Kumar, P. P. Roy, & D. Sen (Eds.), Proceedings of International Conference on Computer Vision and Image
Processing (pp. 439–447). Springer Singapore. ISBN: 978-981-10-2107-7.
Sharma, P. (2017). Induced Dynamics of Non-Autonomous Discrete Dynamical Systems. arXiv:1703.05897 [Math].
Sharma, P., & Raghav, M. (2017). On Dynamics Generated by a Uniformly Convergent Sequence of Maps.
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Aggarwal, H. K., Chhibber, R., Arora, N., & Mehta, R. (2017). Experimental Analysis of Thermal Fatigue in
Bimetallic Welds. Materials Science Forum, 880, 124–127. ISSN: 1662-9752.
Bhandari, D., Chhibber, R., Arora, N., & Mehta, R. (2016). Investigation of TiO2–SiO2–CaO–CaF2 based electrode
coatings on weld metal chemistry and mechanical behaviour of bimetallic welds. Journal of Manufacturing
Processes, 23, 61–74. ISSN: 1526-6125.
Chakraborty, P. R. (2017). Enthalpy porosity model for melting and solidification of pure-substances with large
difference in phase specific heats. International Communications in Heat and Mass Transfer, 81,183-189. ISSN:
Chakraborty, P. R., Hiremath, K. R., & Sharma, M. (2016, in press). Evaluation of evaporation coefficient for
micro-droplets exposed to low pressure: A semi-analytical approach. Physics Letters A. ISSN: 0375-9601.
Hafez, A. H. A., Mithun, P., Anurag, V. V., Shah, S. V., & Krishna, K. M. (2017). Reactionless visual servoing of a
multi-arm space robot combined with other manipulation tasks. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 91, 1-10.
Harsha, C. S., Prasanth, C. S. R., & Pratiher, B. (2016). Effect of Squeeze Film Damping and AC Actuation Voltage
on Pull-in Phenomenon of Electrostatically Actuated Microswitch. Procedia Engineering, 144, 891–899. ISSN:
Harsha, C. S., Prasanth, C. S., & Pratiher, B. (2016). Prediction of pull-in phenomena and structural stability
analysis of an electrostatically actuated microswitch. Acta Mechanica, 1–18. ISSN: 1619-6937.
James, F., Shah, S. V., Singh, A. K., Krishna, K. M., & Misra, A. K. (2016). Reactionless Maneuvering of a Space
Robot in Precapture Phase. Journal of Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, 0(0), 1–7. ISSN: 1533-3884.
9. Moges, T. M., Desai, K. A., & Rao, P. V. M. (2016). Improved Process Geometry Model with Cutter Runout and
Elastic Recovery in Micro-end Milling. Procedia Manufacturing, 5, 478–494. ISSN: 2351-9789.
Phadatare, H. P., & Pratiher, B. (2016). Nonlinear Frequencies and Unbalanced Response Analysis of High Speed
Rotor-Bearing Systems. Procedia Engineering, 144, 801–809. ISSN: 1877-7058.
Rajpurohit, D. S. & Chhibber, R. (2016). Design Optimization of Two Input Multimode Applicator for Efficient
Microwave Heating. International Journal of Advances in Microwave Technology, 1 (3).  ISSN: 2456-4346.
Rao, S. S., Chhibber, R., Arora, K. S., & Shome, M. (2017; In press). Resistance spot welding of galvannealed
high strength interstitial free steel. Journal of Materials Processing Technology. ISSN: 0924-0136.
Saha, A. K., Kumar, R., Usmani, B., Chandra, L., & Dixit, A. (2016). Development Of Nickel Modified Fe 3 O 4
Solar Selective Coatings for Solar Absorber Applications. Advanced Materials Proceedings, 1(2), 140–145. ISSN:
Saini, A., Chhibber, R., & Chattopadhyay, A. (2016). Effect of combined fatigue and hygrothermal loading on
structural properties of E-glass/polymers. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part C:
Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science. ISSN: 0954-4062.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sharma, B., Chhibber, R., & Mehta, R. (2017). Curing studies and mechanical properties of glass fiber reinforced
composites based on silanized clay minerals. Applied Clay Science, 138, 89–99. ISSN: 0169-1317.
Agarwal, A., & Prakash, A. (2016). Validation of LBM based on BGK on Poiseuille’s Flow and Vortex Street in a
Channel Flow. In Fourth International Conference On Advances in Civil, Structural and Mechanical Engineering
(pp. 14–18). USA: Institute of Research
Salunkhe, D. H., Sharma, S., Topno, S. A., Darapaneni, C., Kankane, A., & Shah, S. V. (2016). Design, trajectory
generation and control of quadrotor research platform. In 2016 International Conference on Robotics and
Automation for Humanitarian Applications (RAHA) (pp. 1–7). ISBN: 978-1-5090-5203-5.
Teja, H., & Shah, S. V. (2016). Learning inverse kinematic solutions of redundant manipulators using multiple
internal models. In 2016 6th IEEE International Conference on Biomedical Robotics and Biomechatronics
(BioRob) (pp. 1371–1371). ISBN: 978-1-5090-3287-7.
Bhole, A., Turlapati, S. H., Rajashekhar, V. S., Dixit, J., Shah, S. V., & Krishna,K. M. (2016). Design of a Robust
Stair Climbing Compliant Modular Robot to Tackle Overhang on Stairs. arXiv:1607.03077 [Cs].
Department of Physics
Adhikari, B., Banerjee, S., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2017). Laplacian matrices of weighted digraphs represented
as quantum states. Quantum Information Processing, 16(3), 79. ISSN: 1573-1332.
Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Uma Sankar, S. (2016). Quantum correlations in terms of neutrino oscillation
probabilities. Nuclear Physics B, 909, 65–72. ISSN: 0550-3213.
Banerjee, S., Alok, A. K., & Omkar, S. (2016). Quantum Fisher and skew information for Unruh accelerated Dirac
qubit. The European Physical Journal C, 76(8). ISSN: 1434-6052.
Banerjee, S., Alok, A. K., Omkar, S., & Srikanth, R. (2017). Characterization of Unruh channel in the context of
open quantum systems. Journal of High Energy Physics, 2017(2), 82. ISSN: 1029-8479. https://doi.org/10.1007/
Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., Banerjee, S., & Srikanth, R. (2016). Bipartite separability and nonlocal quantum
operations on graphs. Physical Review A, 94(1), 12306. ISSN: 2469-9934.
Ghosh, S., Sahu, S., Agrawal, L., Shiga, T., & Bandyopadhyay, A. (2017). Inventing a co-axial atomic resolution
patch clamp to study a single resonating protein complex and ultra-low power communication deep inside a
living neuron cell. Journal of Integrative Neuroscience, 1–31. ISSN: 0219-6352.
Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2017). Effect of precursor and composition on the physical properties of the low-
cost solution processed Cu2ZnSnS4 thin film for solar photovoltaic application. Journal of Renewable and
Sustainable Energy, 9(1), 013502-1- 013502-10. ISSN: 1941-7012.
Laha, A., & Ghosh, S. (2017). Connected hidden singularities and toward successive state flipping in degenerate
optical microcavities. Journal of the Optical Society of America B, 34(2), 238–244. ISSN: 1520-8540.
Annual Report 2016-17
Laha, S. S., Abdelhamid, E., Arachchige, M. P., Kumar, A., & Dixit, A. (2017). Ferroic ordering and charge-spin-
lattice order coupling in Gd-doped Fe3O4 nanoparticles relaxor multiferroic system. Journal of the American
Ceramic Society, n/a-n/a. ISSN: 1551-2916.
10. Omkar, S., Srikanth, R., Banerjee, S., & Shaji, A. (2016). The two-qubit amplitude damping channel:
Characterization using quantum stabilizer codes. Annals of Physics, 373, 145–162. ISSN: 0003-4916.
Saini, L., Janu, Y., Patra, M. K., Jani, R. K., Gupta, G. K., Dixit, A., & Vadera, S. R. (2016). Dual Band Resonance in
Tetragonal BaTiO3/NBR Composites for Microwave Absorption Applications. Journal of the American Ceramic
Society, n/a-n/a. ISSN: 1551-2916.
Saini, L., Patra, M. K., Jani, R. K., Gupta, G. K., Dixit, A., & Vadera, S. R. (2017). Tunable Twin Matching
Frequency (fm1/fm2) Behavior of Ni1−xZnxFe2O4/NBR Composites over 2–12.4 GHz: A Strategic Material System
for Stealth Applications. Scientific Reports, 7, 44457. ISSN: 2045-2322.
Sharma, V., Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2016). A comparative study of protocols for secure
quantum communication under noisy environment: single-qubit-based protocols versus entangled-state-based
protocols. Quantum Information Processing, 1–30.
Tripathi, B., Tripathi, G., Dixit, A., Saxena, N., Sharma, K. B., & Katiyar, R. S. (2016). Study of Hydrogen
Adsorption on GO/PS Based Flexible Nanocomposites at Room Temperature. Advanced Science Letters, 22(11),
3768–3772. ISSN: 1936-6612.
Usmani, B., & Dixit, A. (2016). Impact of corrosion on microstructure and mechanical properties of ZrOx/
ZrC-ZrN/Zr absorber–reflector tandem solar selective structures. Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells, 157,
733–741. ISSN: 0927-0248.
Usmani, B., & Dixit, A. (2016). Spectrally selective response of ZrOx/ZrC–ZrN/Zr absorber–reflector tandem
structures on stainless steel and copper substrates for high temperature solar thermal applications. Solar
Energy, 134, 353–365. ISSN: 0038-092X.
Usmani, B., Vijay, V., Chhibber, R., & Dixit, A. (2016). Investigation of ZrOx/ZrC–ZrN/Zr thin-film structural
evolution and their degradation using X-ray diffraction and Raman spectrometry. Applied Physics A, 122(11),
992. ISSN: 1432-0630.
Vyas, G., Dagar, P., & Sahu, S. (2016). A complementary switching mechanism for organic memory devices to
regulate the conductance of binary states. Applied Physics Letters, 108(23), 233301. ISSN: 1077-3118.
Gupta, G. K., & Dixit, A. (2016). Room temperature electrical properties of solution derived p-type Cu2ZnSnS4
thin films. In AIP Conference Proceedings (Vol. 1728, p. 20678). AIP Publishing. ISBN: 978-0-7354-1375-7.
Kumar, R., Kumar, R., & Dixit, A. (2016). Thermal phase diagram of acetamide-benzoic acid and benzoic acid-
phthalimide binary systems for solar thermal applications. In AIP Conference Proceedings (Vol. 1728, p. 20687).
AIP Publishing. ISSN: 978-0-7354-1375-7.
Kumar, R., Vyas, S., Kumar, R., & Dixit, A. (2016). Charging studies of heat packs using parabolic dish solar
energy concentrator for extreme conditions. In V. Rajpaul & C. Richter (ed.), 21st SolarPACES International
Conference (SolarPACES 2015) (Vol. 1734, p. 50027). American Institute of Physics, Cape Town, South Africa.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Alok, A. K., Bhattacharya, B., Kumar, D., Kumar, J., London, D., & Sankar, S. U. (2017). New Physics in bsμ+μ−:
Distinguishing Models through CP-Violating Effects. arXiv:1703.09247 [Hep-Ph].
Alok, A. K., Kumar, D., Kumbhakar, S., & Sankar, S. U. (2016). D* polarization as a probe to discriminate new
physics in B --> D* tau nubar. arXiv:1606.03164 [Hep-Ex, Physics:hep-Ph].
Banerjee, S., Kumar, N. P., Srikanth, R., Jagadish, V., & Petruccione, F. (2017). Non-Markovian Dynamics of
Discrete-Time Quantum Walks. arXiv:1703.08004 [Quant-Ph].
Dixit, K., Alok, A. K., Banerjee, S., & Kumar, D. (2017). Geometric phase and neutrino mass hierarchy problem.
arXiv:1703.09894 [Hep-Ph, Physics:quant-Ph].
Dutta, S., Adhikari, B., & Banerjee, S. (2016). Seidel switching for weighted multi-digraphs and its quantum
perspective. arXiv:1608.07830 [Math-Ph, Physics:quant-Ph].
Goyal, R., Jha, R., Tiwari, B., Dixit, A., & Awana, V. P. S. (2016). Influence of Ni doping on critical parameters of
PdTe superconductor. arXiv:1605.04647 [Cond-Mat].
Sedrakian, A., Huang, X.-G., Sinha, M., & Clark, J. W. (2017). From microphysics to dynamics of magnetars.
arXiv:1701.00895 [Astro-Ph, Physics:nucl-Th].
Thapliyal, K., Pathak, A., & Banerjee, S. (2016). Quantum cryptography over non-Markovian channels.
Annual Report 2016-17
Awards & Recognitions
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
1. Amit Kumar Mishra, Assistant Professor, has won the CSIR-CDRI Medicinal and Process Chemistry Division based
Indian Society of Chemists and Biologists “ISCB Young Scientist Award for the year 2017” in the area of Biological
Sciences. The award comprises of a cash award of Rs. 5000/- and a citation, which is being conferred in a ceremony
at SRM University, Tamil Nadu during 8-10 February 2017.
Sushmita Jha’s research placed on cover of Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences, May 2016
From  the  research  paper  “NLR-regulated  pathways  in  cancer:  opportunities  and  obstacles  for  therapeutic
interventions” authored by Sushmita Jha, Assistant Professor, Department of Biology and Nidhi Sharma, Ph.D.
Student, Department of Biology, which was published in the May 2016 issue of Cellular and Molecular Life Sciences,
published  by  Springer  Verlag,  the  figure  depicting  the  “Summary  of  NLR  inflammasome  complex  formation
(Fig.  2)”  has  been  placed  as  the  cover  art  on  the  journal  issue.  NLRs  (nucleotide-binding  domain,  leucine-rich
repeat containing receptors) are pattern recognition receptors associated with immunity and inflammation in
response  to  endogenous  and  exogenous  pathogen  and  damage  associated  molecular  patterns  (PAMPs  and
DAMPs respectively). Dysregulated NLR function is associated with several diseases including cancers, metabolic
diseases,  autoimmune  disorders  and  autoinflammatory  syndromes.  In  the  last  decade,  distinct  cell  and  organ
specific roles for NLRs have been identified however; their roles in cancer initiation, development and progression
remain controversial. This review summarizes the emerging role of NLRs in cancer and their possible future as
targets for cancer therapeutics. Full article can be read at doi:10.1007/s00018-015-2123-8.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Chemistry
Rakesh K.  Sharma’s research placed on cover of ChemCatChem, May 2016
The  cover  shows  the  interface  between  the  traditional  and  scientific  applications  of  clay.  In  their
communication, V. K. Soni and R. K. Sharma show the smart utilization of clay as a heterogeneous catalyst by
nanometal intercalation for the selective hydrogenation of squalene into squalane under solvent free conditions.
Squalane is an important ingredient in the cosmetic, nutraceutical, and pharmaceutical industries. Also, it has been
used as a model compound for the hydrocracking of crude and microalgae oil. Thus, a series of green catalysts
were prepared. The Pd-nanoparticles-intercalated clay with a dominating Pd(111) facet shows highest reactivity
and selectivity. The catalyst is stable with very low Pd leaching, and is recyclable without losing any significant
catalytic activity. More information can be found in the communication by V. K. Soni and R. K. Sharma on page
1763 in Volume 8, Issue 10, 2016 (DOI:10.1002/cctc.201600210).
Annual Report 2016-17
2. Natural Rajasthani Clay (Jodhpur) for Production of Fuel & Value-added Products from Biomass Feedstocks
In a quest of developing cost effective and green catalytic systems for biomass upgradation, recently, Rakesh
K.  Sharma,  Assistant  Professor  and  Head,  Department  of  Chemistry,  and  Vineet  Kumar  Soni,  Post-Doctoral
Fellow,  utilized  natural  clay  as  a  heterogeneous  catalyst  by  nanometal  intercalation  for  converting  squalene
into squalane under solvent free conditions. Squalane is an important ingredient in the cosmetic, nutraceutical,
and pharmaceutical industries. Also, it has been used as a model compound for the hydrocracking of crude and
microalgae oil. The presence of Pd-nanoparticles with dominating Pd(111) plane showed highest reactivity and
selectivity.  The  catalysts  are  stable  and  reusable  under  the  proposed  reaction  conditions.  The  group  is  now
focusing on exploring new clay-based catalysts for the production of fuel grade hydrocarbons from vegetable oil,
algae oil and related compounds.
Department of Electrical Engineering
Shree Prakash Tiwari, Assistant Professor, has been elevated as Senior Member of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (SMIEEE) as an honour to his contribution to the profession.
2. Mahesh  Kumar,  Assistant  Professor,  has  been  elevated  as  Senior  Member  of  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and
Electronics Engineers (SMIEEE) as an honour to his contribution to the profession.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
3. Mahesh  Kumar,  Assistant  Professor,  has  been  decorated  with  the  Young  Achiever  Award  by  the  Board  of
Research  in  Nuclear  Sciences  (BRNS),  Department  of  Atomic  Energy  (DAE),  Government  of  India,  for  his
meritorious contribution in the field of Science, during the 61st Solid State Physics Symposium at KIIT University,
Bhubaneshwar on 30 December 2016.
The  Indian  National  Young  Academy  of  Science  (INYAS),  has  elected  Mahesh  Kumar,  Assistant  Professor,  as
a  Core  Committee  Member  of  the  Academy.  INYAS  was  founded  by  the  Indian  National  Science  Academy  in
December 2014 and came into existence with the selection of its 20 founding members by the INSA Council in
May 2015. Aspiring to be the voice of young scientists across the country, INYAS has 52 members and 7 elected
core committee members on board, presently.
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Vidya Sarveswaran, Assistant Professor, was awarded the 2016 Rachel Carson Fellowship, by Rachel Carson Center
for Environment and Society at the Ludwig Maxmillian University, Munich. The Research Fellowship is supported
by the Deutches Museum and the Government of Germany.
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Presentation  made  by  Rahul  Chhibber,  Assistant  Professor,  was  chosen  as  one  of  the  best  oral  presentations
and was presented with an Excellent Oral Presentation Certificate at 2016 4th Asia Conference on Mechanical and
Materials Engineering (ACMME 2016) held at Kuala Lumpur during 14-18 July 2016.
Annual Report 2016-17
The  following  Outreach  activities  have  been  undertaken  by  the  Faculty  Members  at  IIT  Jodhpur  during  the
Undergraduate Research Initiative
IIT Jodhpur started the Undergraduate Research Initiative (UGRI) Program in 2011 with the objective of promoting
research and innovation among undergraduate students. This program is organised every summer; it helps participating
students  improve  their  professional  knowledge  and  skills.  Students  from  across  the  country  were  encouraged  to
participate  in  the  UGRI  Program.  23  students  participated  in  the  UGRI  2016.  Students  were  selected  on  the  basis  of
their academic achievements and the merit of the research proposal submitted by them, be it an analytical one or an
experimental one. It began on 16 May 2016 and ended on 15 July 2016. Selected students were provided accommodation
in Students’ Hostel at IIT Jodhpur. During this period, the participating students were offered a token financial assistance
to meet their basic expenses. During this 10 week program, the students worked on their projects under the mentorship
of Faculty Members at IIT Jodhpur.
Participants of UGRI 2016 with Barun Pratiher, Faculty Member Incharge, UGRI 2016
Ishaan Vikaas Program
A special program in the name of Ishaan Vikaas, an initiative of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, has
been launched as a comprehensive plan to bring selected school girls and boys, from the North-Eastern states into close
contact with the IITs and IISERs during their vacation periods with the objective of opening up the young minds and
giving them a broad overview of the future paths which they would like to traverse. They should get a wider perspective
on how they can take a much more proactive role in shaping their own future. At the same time, as a part of Ishaan
Vikaas,  an  academic  activity  will  take  place  to  encourage  internship  for  the  engineering  college  students  of  North-
Eastern states in various institutes of national importance.
From this year onwards, IIT Jodhpur has taken part in this Government’s mission to give whole-hearted support for
the success of this Program. The Institute has organized the Program twice this year, during summer and winter.
During 4-16 July 2016, 40 school children, accompanied by 7 teachers visited IIT Jodhpur. In this context, a schedule
has been prepared for the school children under the mentorship, guidance and supervision of the Faculty Members of
Participants of Ishaan Vikas Program
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Celebration of National Festivals & Observance of
Days of National Importance
Second International Yoga Day
First  International  Day  of  Yoga  was  celebrated  on  21  June  2016  at  the  GPRA  Residential  Campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur.
Faculty Members, Staff Members and Students took an active part in the event.
Chairman, Health Services, IIT Jodhpur
introducing the program
Faculty and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur doing Yoga
Yoga Instructors demonstrating to the participants
The participants and instructors at Porta Cabin, GPRA
Residential Campus, IIT Jodhpur
Annual Report 2016-17
70th Independence Day Celebration
The 70th Independence Day of the nation was celebrated by the members of IIT Jodhpur Community, on 15 August
2016 in the Temporary Academic Campus. Subsequent upon the flag hoisting and rendering of the National Anthem by
the members present, students presented a cultural show with a musical performance by Sangam (the music band of
students) and a street play by Nukkad (the drama group of students).
Musical performance by “Sangam” the music band of IIT
Jodhpur Students Gymkhana on 15 August 2016
Cultural Program by IIT Jodhpur Students
on 15 August 2016
Cultural Program by IIT Jodhpur Students on 15
Audience enjoying the cultural programs on 15
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Tree Plantation in Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur
Tree plantation activity was undertaken at the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur in Karwad on the occasion of 69th
Independence Day on 15 August 2016. Several neem saplings were planted jointly by the members of the IIT Jodhpur
community and the Jodhpur Tree Plantation and Environment Protection Committee (JTPEPC), led by Sri M. S. Singhvi,
Senior Advocate, (High Court of Rajasthan, Jodhpur) in the presence of Honourable Justice Sandeep Mehta, (Sitting
Judge, High Court of Rajasthan, Jodhpur) and distinguished members of JTPEPC.
Tree plantation at the Permanent Campus of IIT
Jodhpur on 15 August 2016
Ek# /kjk esa gfj;kyh ykus dh vksj vkbZ-vkbZ-Vh- tks/kiqj ds f”k”kq dne]
vkt+knh ds ‰Œos “kqHk ioZ ij vkbZ-vkbZ-Vh- tks/kiqj ds LFkkbZ ifjlj esa
l?ku o`{kkjksi.k] ƒ‡ vxLr „Œƒˆ
Freedom Fortnight Celebrations @ IIT Jodhpur
On the occasion of Independence Day, the Government of India declared a 14 day celebration. IIT Jodhpur has taken
this initiative positively and organised various events on this occasion. One of the activities organised by the Students
Gymkhana during this celebration was “Sketching Competition”. The Institute showed great interest in the competition
and actively participated in it. To encourage students think about the positive aspects and the great achievements of the
country, “The Incredible India” theme was chosen for the competition. This inculcates feeling of patriotism and proud
among the “Future of India”. Some of the sketches contributed by the Students are illustrated as under.
Another event that was organised by the Technical Society of the Students Gymkhana during 14-18 August 2016 was
a task to use the Rube Goldberg machine to commemorate the 70th Independence Day. The projects were evaluated
by Rajlaxmi Chouhan and Mahima Arrawatia, Assistant Professors, Department of Electrical Engineering. The following
pictures depict application of Rube Goldberg machine:
Annual Report 2016-17
National Sports Day
National Sports Day was celebrated at IIT Jodhpur on 29 August 2016 at the GPRA Residential Campus. Following are
some pictures of the celebration.
Students enjoying a game of Kho Kho
Happy National Sports Day!!
Teacher’s Day Celebrations @ IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur organized a program on Teacher’s Day to pay tribute to the contribution of Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan
and to acknowledge the importance of Teachers towards nation building.
Coordinator (Academics) welcomed the Director, Faculty Members, Staff Members, and Students. Professor Prawal
Sinha, Professor In-charge (Faculty) introduced the guest speaker Professor Amit Ray, who served as a Professor at the
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences at IIT Kanpur from 1978-2008 and presently associated with the School
of Humanities and Social Sciences, Shiv Nadar University. Professor Ray addressed the gathering on “Milestones and
Signposts in the Journey of an Academic” and shared some valuable experiences from his illustrious career. Thereafter,
Certificates of Academic Distinction were presented by the Heads of Departments to the meritorious students. As a
mark of respect to a great teacher, Professor Ray was felicitated on this occasion. The program ended with a Vote of
Thanks by Coordinator (Students).
Professor Amit Ray addressing the IIT Jodhpur Community
Presenting Certificate of Academic Distinction
Presenting Certificate of Academic Distinction
Felicitating Professor Amit Ray
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
With  an  objective  of  spreading  awareness  and  to  expedite  official  communication  process  in  Hindi  language,  a
fortnight during Spetember of every year is dedicated as Hindi Pakhwada. Hindi Diwas observed on 14 September marks
the beginning of this fortnight. The Hindi Diwas and Hindi Pakhwada are organized in all Central Government Offices.
In FY 2016-17 Hindi Pakhwada was organized in IIT Jodhpur from 14-28 September 2016, wherein various competitions
like debate, poem recitation, quiz and letter writing were conducted. Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur participated in these
competitions  enthusiastically.  The  winners  were  awarded  prizes  and  certificates  of  appreciation  during  the  closing
ceremony on 28 September 2016.
Debate competition during Hindi Pakhwada
Winner receiving Certificate of Appreciation from
68th Republic Day Celebration
The  68th  Republic  Day  of  the  nation  was  celebrated  by
Members of IIT Jodhpur community, on 26 January 2017, at the
First Building on the Permanent Campus in Karwad Village. The
Director hoisted the National Flag, and the National Anthem
was patriotically rendered by all present.
Students  presented  a  cultural  show  with  a  musical
performance  by  Sangam,  the  music  band  of  students,  and
a  street  play  by  Nukkad,  the  drama  group  of  students.  The
General Secretary of Student Gymkhana, IIT Jodhpur, proposed
a Vote of Thanks. A visit was arranged to nearing completion
buildings  of  the  Permanent  Campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur  for  the
Students, Faculty Members and Staff Members present. The
program was followed by lunch.
Earlier in the morning, the National Flag was hoisted at the
Academic Campus and the GPRA & BSNL Residential Campuses
Students presenting cultural programs on the occasion of 68th Republic Day
Annual Report 2016-17
The Institute organizes Institute Day, every year, as a benign gesture to mark our association so far with the outgoing
students of B.Tech. and M.Tech. This year it was organized on 16 April 2016, as a small function followed by dinner. It was
a moment of melancholy of feelings for the, as well as for the Faculty and Staff members for the Institute.
Outgoing batch of B.Tech. Students
Outgoing batch of M.Tech. Students
Outgoing Students sharing their experiences
Outgoing Students with Director, Faculty Members and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
3rd Convocation of IIT Jodhpur
The 3rd Convocation of IIT Jodhpur was held on 08 December 2016. The Chief Guest for the momentous occasion was
Dr. Arvind Panagariya, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, Government of India. Though Dr. Panagariya could not be present
in person for the occasion due to an important and urgent assignment at the last moment, he sent his video recorded
speech, which was played during the event. Total 157 students received their degrees, out of which 136 were B.Tech.
students,  15  were  M.Tech.  students,  and  6  were  Ph.D.  students.  With  this  the  total  number  of  students  graduating
from this young Institute stands at 720. The Convocation ceremony was held at the Auditorium of All India Institute of
Medical Sciences, Jodhpur.
Director, IIT Jodhpur, reading the Institute Report
Parents of Sachin Grover receiving President’s Gold Medal
on his behalf
Visitors to the Institute
Mark Azua, Director, Programs, North India Office, Embassy of the United States of America, gave a talk on “India-
U.S. Relations: The Way Forward” on Wednesday, 16 November 2016. Mr. Azua talked about the relationship between
the countries and its progress after the recent Presidential Elections. Faculty Members, Staff Members, and Students
attended the talk.
Mark Azua addressing the audience
Visit of Union Minister for State for Electronics & IT and Law & Justice
Sh. P. P. Chaudhary, Union Minister for State for Electronics & IT and Law & Justice, visited IIT Jodhpur on 10 December
2016. A meeting was held at IIT Jodhpur on 10 December 2016 from 4:30 pm to discuss the possibility of establishing an
Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) in the greater Jodhpur-Pali region. The meeting was chaired by the
Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Electronics & IT and Law & Justice, Sh. P. P. Chaudhary. The meeting was attended
Annual Report 2016-17
by C. V. R. Murty (Director, IIT Jodhpur), Dr. S. R. Vadera (Director, DRDO Defence Laboratory Jodhpur), Sh. M. L. Bapna
(Advisor – Industry-Academia Interface, IIT Jodhpur), three Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur (Arun K. Singh (EE), S. P.
Tiwari (EE), and B. V. Ramana (CSE)), Sh. Dipak Singh (Scientist F, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology,
Government of India), Sh. N. K. Gupta (Scientist B, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of
India) and Sh. Mukesh Chaudhary (Additional Private Secretary to Minister of State, Government of India).
Professor C. V. R. Murty presenting a memento to Sh. P. P. Chaudhary
Inter-IIT Sports Meet
IIT Jodhpur’s Participation
Faculty  Members  and  Staff  Members  of  IIT  Jodhpur  activelty  participated  in  the  23rd  Inter-IIT  Staff  Sports  Meet.
The  meet  was  organized  during  21-25  December  2016  by  IIT  Kanpur.  The  Faculty  and  Staff  Members  participated  in
Cricket, Badminton, Table Tennis, and Athletics. Alongside, Students also participated in the 45th Inter-IIT Sports Meet
held during 11-18 December 2016 at IIT Kanpur.
IIT Jodhpur Contingent
Women’s Table Tennis – IIT Jodhpur vs. IIT Delhi
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
At present, IIT Jodhpur operates from two sets of temporary campuses, namely:
Temporary Academic Campus: It operates independently from the premises of MBM Engineering College in Jodhpur,
situated on the Old Residency Road, Ratanada, at a distance of about 4 km from the Jodhpur Railway Station and 3 kms
from the Jodhpur Airport.
Temporary Residential Campuses: IIT Jodhpur has two residential campuses located at (1) GPRA Residential Campus,
New Pali Road Jodhpur, and (2) BSNL Residential Campus, Subhash Nagar, Jodhpur. GPRA Campus is located at New
Pali Road, about 17 kms from the academic campus and provides accommodation to nearly 600 B.Tech. boy and all girl
students. Also, it provides accommodation to nearly 150 other members of IIT community, including Faculty Members,
Staff  Members,  and  their  family  members.  On  the  other  hand,  BSNL  Campus  is  located  in  the  heart  of  the  city  and
provides accommodation to nearly 150 male M.Tech. and Ph.D. students. Limited housing is available on this campus for
Temporary Academic Campus
Currently, the academic campus of IIT Jodhpur comprises of three blocks, namely:
Academic  Block  1:  It  houses  several  laboratories,  the  library,  a  computer  center  and  offices  of  some  Faculty
(ii)  Academic Block 2: It has lecture halls, classrooms, language lab and multimedia lab.
(iii)   Administrative Block: It houses the Office of Director, administrative offices, technical laboratories and offices of
some Faculty Members.
In  addition,  the  academic  campus  consists  of  some  temporary  structures  used  for  different  purposes  such  as
laboratories  and  office  spaces.  IIT  Jodhpur  has  established  good  academic  facilities  for  teaching  and  research.  The
Institute has well equipped Laboratories and a Library.
Laboratories and Research Facilities
IIT Jodhpur has established state-of-the-art teaching and research laboratories. These advanced laboratories have
machinery and devices of international standard, which are actively used in research. The major laboratories include Heat
Transfer, Fluid Mechanics, Electronic Circuit Laboratory, Robotics, Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
and Solar Radiation.
Annual Report 2016-17
The  Library  has  a  collection  of  about  12,000  volumes  of  books  comprising  of  textbooks,  research  and  reference
books, monographs etc. In addition, the Library provides access to a range of electronic resources from professional
and  scholarly  societies  and  publishers,  such  as  American  Society  for  Mechanical  Engineers,  Institute  for  Electrical  &
Electronics Engineers, and Association for Computing Machinery, to name a few. Also, it subscribes to popular scientific,
research and archival databases, like SciFinder, MathSciNet, JStor, Prowess, and EBSCO Academic Search.
The  Library  operates  in  a  computerized  environment  with  automated  member  &  circulation  services,  and  digital
library  services.  Memberships,  circulation,  reference  &  information  service,  inter  library  loans  &  document  lending
services, current awareness service, digital library service are some of the important services that are presently offered.
Temporary Residential Campuses
GPRA Residential Campus
The major residential area is in a scenic campus located on New Pali Road, Vivek Vihar, Jodhpur, about 20 kms from
the railway station. The campus is well guarded and equipped with basic amenities including Wi-Fi, recreational rooms
and a computer center. Also, the residential campus provides accommodation for Faculty Members and Staff Members
of the Institute. Transport facility is available between the Institute and Residential campus.
BSNL Residential Campus
The second residential campus is located in BSNL Colony on Pal Link Road in Subhash Nagar. Basic common facilities
are available at BSNL colony. Transport facility is available between the Institute and BSNL Campus. All male M.Tech. and
Ph.D. and some married students are given accommodation in this residential campus.
Following are some basic facilities made available in the residential areas:
ATM & Bank: The residential area has a branch of SBI (State Bank of India) as well as an ATM of SBI, enabling
students to make transactions with ease. There are several other banks namely UCO, HDFC and SBBJ close to
the academic area.
Canteen: There are two sets of canteens, one at Residential Campus and the other one in Academic Campus.
They provide hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks for the students.
Gymnasium: A well-equipped gymnasium is present in the Residential Campuses, and is operational during 5
am to 10 pm. Students can avail these facilities to stay healthy and to maintain their physique.
Dining Facility: There are two sets of Dining Facilities, one in the Residential Campuses and the other one in
the Academic Campus. The mess offers good quality food, regularly monitored by the Wardens for hygiene
and nutritional values, and provided at affordable cost.
Shops: Shops catering to the various primary needs of students are present near the Academic Campus. A
small outlet is functional inside GPRA campus for urgent petty purchases.
Transport Services: The Institute has a bus service running between the Residential and Academic Campuses
at regular intervals, exclusively for the Students of the Institute.
Entertainment Room: Every hostel consists of recreation facilities (like TV Rooms, where students can enjoy
matches and watch movies) along with indoor games (like table tennis and carroms).
Both  the  Residential  Campuses  have  Health  Centers  for  providing  routine  health  services.  Due  to  geographical
locations of the two Campuses and the type of the residents, Health Center at GPRA Campus provides services to the
patients round the clock, while medical services are available at BSNL Campus for limited hours in the evening, typically
from 5 pm to 10 pm. In addition to the availability of medical services at Residential Campuses, medical assistance is
available at Academic Campus. This assistance is normally provided from 3 pm to 4.30 pm, when laboratory sessions are
in full swing and medical assistance may be required. The Institute has its ambulance services available round-the-clock.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Two of these hospitals
have  specializations  in  ophthalmology  and  one  in  orthopedic,  and  the  remaining  two  hospitals  are  the  best  known
general  purpose  hospitals  in  the  city.  For  specialized  medical  attention  doctors  at  our  Health  Centers  refer  patients
to one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a Medical College and three hospitals run by
Government  of  Rajasthan.  Also,  the  city  All  India  Institute  of  Medical  Sciences  (AIIMS),  which  is  nearly  12  km  GPRA
Campus and nearly 5 km from BSNL Campus. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior
Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health
Centers  and  in  critical  medical  cases.  IIT  Jodhpur  has  empanelled  two  hospitals  in  Jaipur.  These  two  hospitals  are
accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals
as per the need of the treatment.
In the forthcoming years, IIT Jodhpur will shift to its sprawling state-of-the-art residential permanent campus on
852 acres of land located ~24 km away from the center of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 65 towards Nagaur,
N-NE  from  the  center  of  Jodhpur.  The  permanent  campus  has  3  parcels  of  land.  The  Institute  is  finalizing  plans  for
adopting one of for harvesting technologies. This new campus has been planned meticulously and envisioned to stand
as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep.
Master Plan of IIT Jodhpur’s Permanent Campus at Karwar Village on NH 65
The foundation stone for the permanent campus was laid on 16 April 2013 by the Hon. Union Minister for Human
Resources Development (Government of India), Dr. M. M. Pallam Raju. The Permanent Campus of the Institute is being
constructed. Work to build Phase 1 of the campus began in March 2015. When complete, it will be the first fully-planned
technical institute campus in India. More importantly, it will be an international exemplar of sustainability with strategies
for ensuring NET ZERO ENERGY, WATER and WASTE. The other salient features of the Permanent Campus are:
Annual Report 2016-17
(1)  Walking campus, which is pedestrian oriented and bicycle dominant;
(2)   Learning facilitated anywhere, anytime with wireless ICT backbone (including Multi-media enabled learning spaces
with flexible, shared public spaces);
(3)   Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5 star compliant buildings and GRIHA LD benchmark campus
(including dense desert settlement morphology, low height buildings (up to a maximum of 3 storeys) built with low
embodied energy materials, and improved local and traditional methods);
(4)   Plantation with native species, soil stabilization, protection from dusty wind to arrest erosion, desertification, and
building-up soil moisture over time;
(5)  Rain water harvesting, and water reduction and sewage recycling, together greening the site over time; and
(6)  Segregated wastes and customized recycling
Entrance structure of IIT Jodhpur permanent campus
The campus will have housing for Faculty Members and Staff Members, along with a school (up to Class XII), bank,
post office and market. Also, it will have a Primary Health Center with hotline connections to reach the top hospitals of
the city, like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, and a fully equipped ambulance service. A large parcel
of the Permanent Campus (of about 182 acres) is set aside for the development a TECHNOLOGY PARK to strengthen
The first migrations into the campus are likely to take place during July 2017.
Faculty Members & Officers housing
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
The Institute has a modern Computer Center, presently running on a gigabit LAN with 1Gbps internet bandwidth. It
is the nucleus of all computing activities for Students, Staff Members and Faculty Members. Several terminals running
on  Windows  and  GNU/Linux  operating  systems  across  the  campus  provide  access  to  several  licensed  software,  like
MatLab, Mathematica, Cadence, Mentor Graphic, Ansys, PSCAD and Solidworks. A 802.11/b/g/n Wi-Fi service is enabled
in  the  academic  and  residential  areas.  Also,  the  Computer  Centre  hosts  a  High  Performance  Computing  cluster  for
The Institute has five key resources at the Computer Center, namely, the Linux Operating System, SVN Server, GIT
Server, OwnCloud and various licensed application software that are used for academic and research purpose, have
made it possible to offer the various resources and facilities.
The Institute extends three facilities, namely, networking, computing, Internet access, and LDAP and Active Directory
ID facilities through its Computer Center.
The Institute offers services like FTP, LDAP, HPC, Web Hosting, Network Connectivity, VPN, EduRoam, and News
Group, through its Computer Center.
Annual Report 2016-17
Library  supports  the  teaching  and  research  activities  of  the  Institute  by  facilitating  acquisition,  organization  and
dissemination of knowledge resources, and also by providing library & information services to IIT Jodhpur community.
Library is located on the ground floor of Academic Block I in the Academic Campus of IIT Jodhpur, in room nos. 1001,
1001 Extension, and 1011. Library functions with the guidance of Library Committee, which has representatives from all
Departments, and Student Representatives.
Room No. 1001, AB1 – Stacks
The Library has a rich and growing collection of 12,000 volumes of books (approx.), which include textbooks, and
books  of  general  and  reference  nature.  A  wide  range  of  scholarly  journals  and  databases  are  also  subscribed  from
various sources for the academic and research purposes of the Institute.
Services & Facilities
The following services and facilities are being provided by the Library to its registered users.
1.  Member & Circulation Services
2.  Orientation & User Education
3.  Borrowing Facility
4.  Reference & Information Service
5.  Course Reserves
6.  Current Awareness Service
7.  Inter Library Loan & Document Supply
8.  Digital Library Facility & Services
Digital resources are accessible through the Library website, which is a comprehensive site maintained by Library.
They include the Library subscribed resources, online catalogue, lists of useful resources accessible in the open domain
like the open access journals, books, repositories, video lectures, open courseware. These resources are continuously
Library  also  maintains  a  portal  for  hosting  bibliographic  listing  of  the  Faculty  Publications.  Additionally,  a  course
guide  portal  has  also  been  developed  and  maintained  by  Library,  wherein,  resources  i.e.,  books  available  in  Library,
subscribed journals, resources accessible in open domain are listed and linked, course-wise. This platform is very useful
for the students in finding topical and course-wise resources. Library also provides remote access to the subscribed
scholarly resources and anti-plagiarism checking.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Room No. 1011, AB1  – Course Reserves & Digital Library
Room No. 1001 Extension, AB1  – Reading Room
Appearing below are some vital statistics of Library for FY 2016-17:
a.  Number of titles added
b.  Number of volumes added
Number of Scholarly Resources subscribed
a.  Fulltext resources
b.  Research databases
Document Supply & Inter Library Loan service requested fulfilled
a.  Document supply of articles & research papers
b.  Books arranged on Inter Library Loans
a.  Number of book check-outs
b.  Number of book check-ins
c.  Number of book renewals
d.  Number of book recalls
Details of E-Resources
Library has licensed the following electronic resources in this year, for teaching, research and private study of its
A.  Fulltext Resources
Association of Computing Machinery Digital Library
American Chemical Society Journals
American Institute of Physics Journals
4.  American Physical Society Journals
American Society for Civil Engineers
6.  American Society for Mechanical Engineers Digital Library
8.  Annual Reviews
10.  Economic & Political Weekly
ASTM Standards & Engineering Digital Library
EBSCO Academic Search Complete
Annual Report 2016-17
11.  Emerald Insight
12.  Human Molecular Genetics Journal
IEL (IEEE) Online Digital Library
15.  Nature Journal
16.  Oxford University Press Journals
17.  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
18.  Project MUSE Journals
19.  Proquest ABI/INFORM Complete
20.  Royal Society of Chemistry Journals
21.  Science Online
22.  Elsevier Science Journals
23.  Society of Industrial & Applied Mathematics Journals
24.  Springer Journals
25.  World eBook Library South Asia Archives
B.  Research Databases
CMIE Prowess IQ (Economics Database)
IndiaStat (Statistical Database)
Institute for Studies in Industrial Development (ISID) (Indexing Database)
4.  MathSciNet (Abstracting & Indexing Database)
7.  Web of Science (Citation & Indeixng Database)
The  Library  is  also  a  core  member  of  the  eShodhSindhu:  Consortium  for  Higher  Education  Electronic  Resources,
operated  by  INFLIBNET  Center,  Gandhinagar,  thorugh  which  subscriptions  to  major  resources  is  fulfilled.  Also,  the
Library is a member of DEveloping Libraries NETwork (DELNET), New Delhi through which the Library meets its Inter
Library Loan requirements.
SciFinder (Research Database)
Scopus (Citation & Indexing Database)
Library also subscribes to Antiplagiarism Tool and Remote Access Tool for its users. Orientation sessions and Library
Instruction sessions for Students are conducted by the Library Staff from time to time.
Along with providing regular library facilities and services, the Library Staff Members are also engaged in rendering
services  in  preparation  of  Institute’s  publications  like  the  Annual  Report,  Institute  Newsletter;  and  also  actively
contribute in maintaining the Institute’s website and repositories.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur has established good number of teaching and research laboratories and facilities, which aid in elevating
the students from minimalist academic concerns to inquisitive world of scientific arena. These teaching and research
laboratories  help  Faculty  Members  and  Students  work  for  better  future  by  supplementing  and  improving  existing
technologies and bodies of knowledge, using competence, creativity and imagination. Appearing below is a department-
wise list of laboratories established in IIT Jodhpur whose details are given in the following pages.
Sl. No. Name of the Laboratory
Department of Biology
Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
Chemical Biology laboratory
Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
Protein Engineering Laboratory
Department of Chemistry
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Networking Technologies Laboratory
Department of Electrical Engineering
Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
Electronic Circuit Laboratory
Instrumentation & Communication Laboratory
Power Electronics Laboratory
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
Digital Language Laboratory
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
Dynamics & Vibration Laboratory
Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory
Fluid Mechanics & Heat Transfer Laboratory
High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Materials Testing & Solid Mechanics Laboratory
Renewable Energy Laboratory
Solar Radiation Laboratory
Department of Physics
Biomolecular Information Processing Laboratory
Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS / SQUID) Laboratory
Materials Analysis Laboratory
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
The Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering (formerly Department of Biology) has the following laboratories
for teaching and research purposes.
1. Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory
The Advanced Biosciences and Neuroscience laboratory is a part of the center of excellence in biologically inspired
systems science (BISS). This laboratory provides cellular and molecular investigative tools for UG and PG teaching and
research in neuroscience. Cell culture studies are utilised along with molecular biology, biochemistry and microscopy
approaches  to  elucidate  the  molecular  mechanisms  underlying  molecular  and  cellular  interactions  underlying
inflammation and repair. Inflammation is a key component of many diseases including traumatic brain injury, cancer,
multiple  sclerosis,  stroke,  asthma,  Parkinson’s  disease  and  Alzheimer’s  disease.  Inflammation  is  characterized  by
accumulation and proliferation of innate immune cells. This is followed by clearance of dead cells and cellular debris
along with enhanced expression of molecular mediators called cytokines and chemokines, which cause migration and
proliferation of immune cells and may even lead to cell death. Understanding the mechanisms by which inflammation
occurs, and the molecular mediators  involved  in this process, is necessary for  identification of potential therapeutic
2. Chemical Biology Laboratory
The Chemical Biology Laboratory deploys cellular and molecular biology approaches to explore the pathogenesis of
cancer and other neurodegenerative diseases. Given the interest in neuronal death, it is no wonder that this lab team is
interested in E3 ubiquitin ligases essential for quality control events in neuronal survival. Protein ubiquitylation is highly
versatile, ordered, the multistep post translation modification enzymatic process that regulates numerous aspects of
cell physiology. This lab team has been studying the role of such E3 ligases to find out the role of quality control E3
ubiquitin ligases in maintenance of proteostasis and hence playing a role in cellular survival and death. Such important
biochemical findings may contribute to innovative therapeutic approaches for the diseases associated with misfolded
Organisms at the cellular level possess a well-established protein quality control mechanism which the lab team is
trying to understand at present. The role of E3 ubiquitin ligases was reported in such mechanisms so far. Our laboratory
is dedicated to a qualitative research in the field of protein quality control mechanisms. We have recently found that a
HECT domain containing E3 ubiquitin ligase E6-AP helps in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis diseases suppression through
its association with the misfolded protein aggregates formed by SOD1 mutants. Such findings support that an E3 ligase
can have a capability to clear the misfolded protein aggregation. However, while appreciating the incredible efficiency
of  cellular  systems,  we  must  recognize  the  crucial  role  of  chaperones  which  are  supposed  to  work  preferentially
compared to E3 ubiquitin ligases in order to refold the misfolded proteins, and hence conserving the energy utilized
during the translation of those proteins. Various examples made us think that we could explore the role of both the
chaperones and E3 ubiquitin ligases in the clearance of misfolded proteins. Therefore, now we are working not only with
E3 ubiquitin ligases but also with the chaperones and even in their functional association to confer an efficient quality
control mechanism to the cell.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
3. Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory
The Environmental Biotechnology Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur, in addition to serving various undergraduate and post-
graduate courses, undertakes research in the areas of bioenergy and bioremediation. Researchers in the lab investigate
on  waste  to  energy  conversion  processes  with  an  aim  to  develop  sustainable  biotechnological  solutions  to  water
pollution  and  energy.  At  present,  successful  bioremediation  processes  for  nitrate  and  chromium  (VI)  contaminated
wastes have been developed. Also, research is underway for the development of low cost Microbial Carbon Capture
cells  for  power  generation  and  algae  cultivation.  In  addition  to  this,  researchers  in  the  lab  have  been  successful  in
isolating novel yeasts, the potential biodiesel producing candidates.
4. Protein Engineering Laboratory
The Protein Engineering Laboratory at IIT Jodhpur is undertaking cutting edge research in developing biomaterials
based on the understanding of structural and functional properties of useful proteins such as collagen. The implications
of the research could also extend towards development of effective biomedical devices and implants.
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Chemistry
The Department of Chemistry has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Chemistry Laboratory
The core objective of the chemistry laboratory of IIT Jodhpur is to train students in scientific methods that would
solve real problems at the frontier of our understanding of the matter. This is a multi-use laboratory and provides a
number of resources to assist undergraduate, graduate and Ph.D. students in planning their professional careers after
completing their academic program at IIT Jodhpur.
This laboratory maintains a broad spectrum of state-of-the-art instrumentation including basic laboratory set up (for
organic, inorganic, organometallic and material synthesis), Nitrogen, Oxygen and LPG gas line, Inert atmosphere boxes,
vacuum line work, fume hood pH, conductivity, BOD, COD, meters, Rotary evaporator, Vacuum pumps, centrifuges, High
pressure reactor system, Chiller, microbalances, Orbital Shaker, GC, HPLC and Radleys ready reactor. In the academic
year  2012-2013,  the  lab  procured  equipment  such  as  Polarimeter,  Melting  point  Instrument,  Solar  Simulator,  Digital
Titrator, Kugalrohr, Electrochemical work stations, and Battery analysers.
A 500 MHz NMR spectrometer with solid state probe is an essential resource, whose mission is to make a state-of-
the-art high field NMR and methods available to researchers, providing a place for them to pursue their projects and
develop new methodologies in NMR methods.
The following are some pictures of Chemistry Laboratory.
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectrometer (500 MHz)
Powder X-ray Diffractometer
Scanning Electron Microscope and Electron Dispersion
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Surface Area Analyzer
Atomic Force Microscope
High Pressure Reactor
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
The  Department  of  Computer  Science  &  Engineering  has  the  following  laboratories  for  teaching  and  research
1. Multimedia Laboratory
The Media Laboratory provides facilities to carry out work related to E-learning, image processing, and computer
vision. The thrust areas of research in this lab are: Semantic analysis of video/image content, video surveillance, human
motion analysis, document image analysis, content based image retrieval etc. E-learning related activities include video
recording, audio-video digitization, video editing, etc. In the academic year 2011-2012, a research on Indian sign language
recognition using Kinect has been initiated.
1.  Scanners: Book Drive Mini, UMAX Powerlook.
2.  Cameras: Sony 177PD, Sony Camcorder, Cannon 500D VCR: Sony DSR 45AP
3.  Tripods: Manfrotto, iMac.
2. Networking Technologies Laboratory
Networking Technologies Laboratory has been started functioning in the Academic Year 2011-2012. It aims at enabling
undergraduate and graduate students, who pursue their interest in the area of computer networks, to understand the
concepts of computer networks and work with contemporary networking equipment in a realistic setting. In addition,
the lab aims at providing necessary infrastructure to carry out research activities on advanced topics, such as wireless
mesh networks, sensor networks, communication on power lines, from computer networks. The activities that take
place in this laboratory are:
1.  Prototyping of networking hardware (Example, Ethernet switch, IPV4 router etc.) using NetFPGA.
2.  Developing packet processors using “Click router” modular software framework.
3.   Establishing infrastructure for the mini-Internet, single-hop wireless networks, multi-hop wireless mesh and
sensor networks, power line communication networks, home phone line networks.
4.  Studies related to the performance analysis of various protocols over on different network configurations.
5.   Development of novel routing algorithms, transport layer mechanisms, and services for next generation
6.   Setting  up  planet-lab  infrastructure  (which  will  essentially  become  part  of  the  global  distributed  computing
platform created over the Internet by connecting over 500+ sites). This allows the students and researchers not
only to understand the traffic patterns on the Internet but also to develop new technologies/applications on the
Internet  for  distributed  storage,  networking  mapping,  peer-to-peer  systems,  content  distribution  service,  and
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Electrical Engineering
The Department of Electrical Engineering has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Control / DSP / Microprocessor Laboratory
The lab provides software and hardware infrastructure for carrying out experiments in the field of Control Systems,
Microprocessor and DSP. Broadly, the lab includes the following experimental setup:
1.  Control Systems
a.  Ball & Beam System from Quanser
b.  Magnetic Levitation System from Quanser
c.  Inverted Pendulum System from Quanser
d.  Software include Scilab / MatLab
2. DSP Lab Equipment
3. Microprocessor Lab
3. Electronic Circuit Laboratory
In this laboratory the students make and test their analog and digital circuits by using all kinds of circuit components
like diode, transistor, op-amps, and clocks. The lab has following equipment:
1.  Arbitrary Function Generator from Agilent
2.  Digital Oscilloscope from Agilent
3.  Programmable Power Supply from Scientific
4.  6 1/2 BIT DMM from Agilent
4. Instrumentation and Communication Laboratory
The  mission  of  Instrumentation  and  Communication  Laboratory  is  to  provide  platform  for  UG  and  PG  students
on  research  and  hands-on  learning  in  Measurement  and  Automation  Technology.  The  state-of-the-art  facilities  at
Annual Report 2016-17
this  laboratory  offer  innovative  research  opportunities  in  the  astronomical  space  of  communication  and  real  time
measurement technology. The experienced Lab team nurtures students’ talent in research and offers an opportunity for
developing sophisticated measurement, test, control systems, data analysis system and next generation communication
Students also develop theoretical and practical competence in (i) building baseband communication  circuits, (ii)
the application of NI LabVIEW graphical programming software, (iii) the PXI based NI RF/Wireless measurement stand,
(iv) evaluating NI WSNs and LabVIEW software, adjusting a software-defined radio system, measuring the parameters
of  studied  antennas  and  (v)  the  operation  of  analog  modulation  schemes.  NI-Lab  contains  software  and  hardware
subsystems which enable rapid prototyping and development of embedded systems for various applications.  Currently,
this lab constitutes the following setups:
1.  NI ELVIS based Communication Systems and Theory Teaching Stand
2.  Large MIMO Stand for Spectral, Channel Efficiency Studies and New Standard Development
3.  Protocols Stand for WLAN, WiMAX, GPS, RFID, Zigbee, GSM, CDMA, WCDMA, Bluetooth
4.  FPGA-enabled Software Defined Radio Stand for Custom Communication Scheme Development and Research
5.  Basic Analog and Digital Communication Techniques Teaching Stand
6.  Wireless Sensor Networks Stand
7.  Signal Intelligence and Wireless Spectral Monitoring Stand
8.  Wireless Prototype Characterization and Testing Stand
9.  FPGA based protocol development for base-band studies and signal processing
10. VNA based Antenna Characterization Stand
11. Fiber Optic Communication Stands
12. Network Based Manufacturing
13.  USRP (Universal Software Radio Peripheral) based wireless communication system for physical layer design,
record and playback, signal intelligence, algorithm validation and more.
14. Network Communication and Manufacturing Control Stand
After  three  years  of  its  formation,  this  lab  has  contributed  immensely  to  the  learning  and  research  activities  at
IIT Jodhpur. Communications and Networking Lab, Intelligent Instrumentation, System Analysis Techniques and Bio-
Sensors courses are being offered through this lab for both graduate and undergraduate students. The lab has provided
the right hardware and software tools for many industrial consultancy projects, including the development of DRM/
DRM+ IP for digital radio standards, Link budget design for Marine environment, DRFM based Radar echo simulator
and  Blind  Signal  Demodulator.  Other  projects  being  done  in  the  lab  are  development  of  affordable  wireless  video
transmission systems, cognitive radio and Zigbee protocol development.
5. Power Electronics Laboratory
The power electronics laboratory is used for undergraduate studies and research in the area of power electronics
based  power  conversion  systems,  control  systems  and  drives.  The  laboratory  facilitates  for  faculty  and  students  to
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
conduct research in the areas power converters and AC/DC micro-grid. The laboratory is equipped with state-of-art test
and measurement instruments, converters, power supplies and programming boards. Major equipment available in this
1. High Precision power Analyzer –YOKOGAWA WT3000.
2. DSO- Tektronix 200MHz (DPO 2024) and 1GHz (DPO 4104B).
3. Function Generator-Tektronix AFG 3021B.
4. Power Supply: 0-30V, 1A; 0-32V, 3A; 0-32, 10A.
5. Three phase inverter drive.
6. Three phase inverter stacks.
7. DC-DC converters.
8. Differential currents Probes.
9. Current clamps.
10. Isolation Transformers.
11. FPGA training kits and programming boards.
6. Robotics Laboratory
IIT Jodhpur has an advanced robotics laboratory for PG/UG education and research. The infrastructure includes the
1. Vicon Motion Tracking System
2.  Mobile  Manipulator  comprising  of  Barret  WAM  ARM
mounted on a PowerBot Mobile robot platform
3. Pioneer P3-DX mobile robots - 10 units
5. Wheel Chair
6. Force Plate
7.  Infrastructure  for  Mobile  Robotics  -  Navigation,  Path-
8.  Dynamic  and  Kinematic  Control  problem,  Redundancy
Resolution,  Inverse  Kinematics  of  Manipulators  and
Mobile Manipulators, Visual Servoing, and
9. GAIT Analysis and Robot Assisted Rehabilitation
Annual Report 2016-17
Department of Humanities & Social Sciences
The Department of Humanities and Social Sciences uses the Language Lab teaching and practice of language.
1. Digital Language Laboratory
The  Digital  Language  Laboratory  provides  resources,  facility,  and  support  for  foreign  language  instruction  and
learning to the entire student community of IIT Jodhpur. The lab is the multilingual computing and assessment center
of the Institute. The lab team explores and implements methods through which multimedia technology renders a more
authentic experience to learning a foreign language. Here, for language learning purposes one could seek recourse to
technologies like the Internet and interactive video, audiovisual techniques, multi-modal iconic approach, and speech
recognition. The exercises include listening and comprehension, grammar-based exercises, placement solutions, and
mastery  tests.  The  main  features  of  this  facility  include  Smart  Class  Symposium  LL  from  Robotel  and  New  Dynamic
English Learning Program from Dyned International. All the facilities at the Digital Language Laboratory are proficiency-
oriented, standard-based, and nurture the students’ enthusiasm for gaining global exposure and proficiency in a foreign
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Mechanical Engineering
The Department of Mechanical Engineering has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Advance Manufacturing Laboratory
In  the  Advance  Manufacturing  Laboratory,  CAD  model  of  object  is  prepared  using  3D  modelling  software  like
ProE, SolidWorks, and Catia. FE analysis is carried out using Analysis software like Ansys, Nastran/Patran and precision
manufacturing  is  carried  out  using  CNC  programing/CNC  machines  and  Rapid  Prototyping  Machine/  3D  Printer.  The
manufactured components are characterised for mechanical behaviour using UTM, Hardness testers, Impact testers
etc. The role of CNC machines in increasing flexibility and precision of the product to be manufactured and, increasing
productivity are illustrated. The Advance Manufacturing Laboratory of institute is equipped with following facilities:
1.  CAD Section
2.  Precision Machining Section
3.  Rapid Prototyping Section
4.  Mechanical Behaviour Characterisation section
2. Central Workshop
Annual Report 2016-17
Central workshop is the central facility of Institute, consisting of various workshops such as Welding shop, Carpentry
shop, Fitting shop, Sheet metal shop, Foundry and Heat treatment shop and Machine shop. Undergraduate Students get
hands on experience in above sections by doing the job work and carrying out projects as part of their coursework and
also students utilize the facilities for fabrication purpose of their academic projects. It also supports the R&D projects of
the institute handled by various Faculty Members and Ph.D. and M.Tech. Thesis work of research scholars by providing
them assistance in fabrication of their research set-ups.
The following machines and equipment are available in the Central Workshop:
1.  Welding fume extraction down draft table
2. Multi process welding equipment
3. Portable single phase MIG/MAG
4. AC/DC welding equipment
5. MIG/MAG welding equipment
6. Treadle operated shearing Machine
7. Hand operated Folding Machine
8. Kaizen Muffle Furnace
9.  Hand operated Jeeny or Burying Machine
10. Motorized Circle cutting Machine
11.  Hand operated Circle cutting Machine
12. Hydraulic shearing Machine
13. Portable Heating Plant
14. Portable hardening plant
15. Forging Heating Plant
16. Aluminium Melting Plant
17. Fitting Table
18. Mould Making Facility
19. Portable Tool Grinder
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
3. Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory
Dynamics  and  Vibration  Laboratory  is  well  equipped  with  various  mechanisms  such  as  Motorized  Gyroscope
Apparatus, Static and Dynamic Balancing Apparatus, Universal Governor Apparatus, Coriolis Component of Acceleration
Apparatus, Epicyclic Gear Train Apparatus, Cam Analysis Machine Apparatus, Universal Vibration Apparatus, Stroboscope
and Tachometer 10 in helping the students to understand the behavior of the various mechanisms and forces acting on
In addition, the laboratory is also equipped with various vibration measuring instruments for computing the vibration
characteristics of a machine or structures and equipment for vibrating the machine or structures in order to finds its
resonance characteristics in various environmental conditions. Following equipment are available for measuring and/or
testing vibration characteristics of elements to structures.
4.	Electro	Mechanical	(EM)	Energy	Conversion	Laboratory
In  order  to  familiarize  students  to  Electrical  Machines  properties  &  characteristics,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  established
“Electro Mechanical Energy Conversion Laboratory” and has continually been developing the potential of its lab facility.
In this lab, state-of-the-art “Electrical Engineering” facilitates the students to empower their potential by familiarizing
themselves  with  the  fundamental  of  electro-mechanical  energy  conversion  process,  including  several  practical  &
industrial applications of machines in true applicable environment. This lab occupies conventional as well as modern
equipment to fulfil the basic and modern technological requirements with continual developing efforts.
Annual Report 2016-17
5. Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer Laboratory
At Fluid Mechanics Laboratory students learn about the following:
1.  Analyses and evaluation of experimental data
2.  Comparison between theoretical models and experimental data
3.   How to design a fluid mechanical and heat transfer system e.g. a piping system considering various technical
aspects,  heat exchanger, thermal energy storage, receiver, wind catcher, volumetric air receiver.
In addition to the above, this laboratory aims at generating innovative ideas in students by promoting the design
of experiments and small scale projects. At present in the fluid mechanics laboratory are conducted experiments on
losses in pipes (smooth/rough) and fittings (e.g. valves, bends), comparison between different flow meters, particle
image velocimetry technique, Hot-wire anemometer, labscale sub-sonic wind tunnel for- pressure distribution around a
cylinder/air-foil, lift and drag balance, boundary layer development, weather monitoring. Furthermore the lab provides
training on standard software, such as, CFAST for fire simulation.
Currently  the  Heat  Transfer  Laboratory  is  equipped  with  the  demonstration  of  various  thermometry  techniques,
heat exchange system, ventilation system, Natural and forced convection system, heat conduction unit for different
materials,  lab  and  industrial-scale  solar  water  heater  system,  and  thermal  radiation  unit.  All  these  equipment  are
installed with respective software.
For  testing,  calibration  and  research  purpose  in  these  laboratories,  various  equipment  such  as  Laser  Doppler
Velocimeter  with  Particle  Analyzer,  pressure  and  temperature  calibration,  blower  with  variable  flow,  pressure
transducers, differential pressure transducers, turbine test rig, turbo-machine test rig, IC engine test rig etc., have been
Moreover, multi-purpose test set up is being indigenously designed and the components / sub-systems involved are
being fabricated locally. This system aims at investigation and evaluation of solar thermal sub-systems such as volumetric
air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchange systems and their simultaneous operation. Devices such
as earth air heat exchange system, wind catcher, and air-cooled heat exchange systems are being fabricated and tested
for certain applications.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
6. High Temperature Solar Thermal Laboratory
Six laboratories are being set-up under the MNRE funded project
entitled as “Establishment of Center of Excellence in Solar Thermal
Research  and  Education  at  IIT  Jodhpur”.  High  Temperature  Solar
Thermal Laboratory is one of these specialized laboratories. The aim
of this laboratory is:
1.   Fundamental aspects of fluid flow and heat transfer related
problems, like, dust deposition
2.   Design and analysis of sub-systems for concentrated solar
Some  of  the  sub-systems  being  designed  and  analyzed  in  this
a.   Open Volumetric Air Receiver for process heat applications
b.  Compact heat exchanger
c.  Solar Convective Furnace
This  laboratory  includes  test  facility,  such  as,  Solar  Air  Tower
Simulator  (SATS)  facility,  advanced  research  grade  equipment  like
Laser  Doppler  Velocimetry.  SATS  facility  includes,  open  volumetric
air receiver, thermal energy storage, air-water heat exchanger and is
being extended with solar convective furnace.
7. Material Testing and Solid Mechanics Laboratory
The material testing lab of the institute provides facilities to test samples of different types of materials to find out
their mechanical properties like modulus of elasticity, tensile and compressive strength, stress strain curve, bending
properties, hardness etc. The lab is equipped with following test equipment:
1.  Universal testing Machine 5-50 kN
2.  Rockwell Tester
3.  Brinell Tester
4.  Vickers Tester
5.  Poldi Hardness Tester
6.  Portable hardness tester
8. Renewable Energy Laboratory
To resolve most daunting challenge of this world energy needs and
also  our  nation’s  heavy  reliance  on  fossil  fuels,  Renewable  Energy
Laboratory (REL) promotes rigorous and objective empirical research at
IIT Jodhpur on issues related to energy and environment. REL focuses
on designing, testing, and disseminating renewable and efficient energy
system. The mission of REL is to help these technologies to realize their
full potential to contribute to environmentally sustainable development
in  industrial  and  developing  countries.  In  the  renewable  energy  field,
expert faculty and students at this Laboratory are currently striving to
create an innovative system to efficiently harness energy from sunlight
interfaced  systems  and
and  wind  power.  REL  has  computer
approximately 30 students can work at a time. Students are the greatest
resource of REL and IIT Jodhpur has made substantial commitment to
the area of renewable energy and been providing all required resources to execute a viable plan and innovative research
at REL. One aspect of the evolution of REL is the development of collaborative partnership with other academic and
industrial groups. In the near future, it will be a hub for training and public-private sector collaboration. Recently, the lab
has started a consultancy project, with Panasonic R & D India Pvt. Ltd., on the prototyping of microbial fuel cells. In
addition, the lab has started work on data collection, interpretation, and analysis of PV power plants less than 5 MW in
Rajasthan and Gujarat. The Renewable Energy Laboratory uses the following equipment:
Annual Report 2016-17
1.   Wind power of 2KW Charge controller ~12V, Synchronous generator with permanent magnets ~12V, Lamp board
~12V, Off grid inverter etc.
2.   PEM Fuel cell Fuel cell with DC converter, Electronic load, Metal hydride storage cell, Electrolyser,
3.   Advanced Photovoltaics Solar module simulation model 23V/2A, Solar module with solar altitude emulator, Solar
charge controller 12/24V, 6A, Solar accumulator 12V, 7Ah, Off grid inverter 230V, 275VA etc.
4.  Combined RF/DC Sputtering Unit for Coatings Applications.
9. Solar Radiation Laboratory
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has selected the IIT Jodhpur campus site as one of their solar
radiation centers. Solar radiation measurement (Global and Direct), Humidity, Ambient temperature, Rain gauge and
wind  speed  measurement  are  carried  out  at  this  center  and  the  data  is  transmitted  via  a  satellite  link  to  the  MNRE
nodal center C-WET in Chennai. The instruments in this laboratory are powered by a couple of solar panels. The data
collected from this center enables the solar resource assessment required for the setting up of solar thermal and solar
photovoltaic power plants as outlined in the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM).
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Physics
The Department of Physics has the following laboratories for teaching and research purposes.
1. Biomolecular Information Processing laboratory
This  laboratory  is  involved  in  the  understanding  of  information  processing  by  various  kinds  of  biomolecules  and
related synthetic molecules. The process involves in using a single molecule first and then a group of molecule on a given
interface. The interaction among the molecules in a given external stimuli will help us understanding the communication
2.	Magnetic	Property	Measurement	System	(MPMS/SQUID)
IIT Jodhpur has created an excellent facility in the field of material characterization. Recently an additional dimension
has been added to it by procuring magnetic property measurement system (MPMS). MPMS (SQUID) is getting installed in
coming few months. This will provide a wide temperature 2 K – 1000 K range for both DC and AC magnetic measurements
in conjunction with field dependent magnetic measurements. Such measurements will help to understand magnetic
properties and associated spin dynamics in magnetic materials.
3. Materials Analysis Laboratory
The  research  focuses  on  the  development  of  novel  materials  for  different  applications  including  materials  for
energy generation and storage. The current work includes the development of solution processable CIGS compound
semiconductor materials for solar cell applications and transition metal oxide based materials for lithium ion batteries
Annual Report 2016-17
and supercapacitor applications. The laboratory is equipped with synthesis of bulk and thin films techniques such as
sputtering, sol-gel process assembly etc., and numerous characterization techniques such as X-ray diffraction, Scanning
electron microscope, Optical spectroscopic techniques, LCR meter, ferroic measurement system for bulk samples etc.
In addition, the group is also focusing on the development of multifunctional materials for different applications such
as solar selective coatings, ferroic materials for high frequency absorbing system, and magnetic particles for different
applications. The  laboratory  is  equipped  with  state-of-the-art  facilities  to  carry  out  thermal  analysis,  electrochemical
analysis, surface morphology studies, separation techniques for chemicals, electrical conductivity measurement devices,
glove box etc.
4. Physics Laboratory
The  mission  of  the  Physics  laboratory  at  IIT  Jodhpur  is  to  provide  students  with  experiential  knowledge  in  basic
physics.  This  laboratory  has  state-of-the-art  facilities  including  specific  equipment  and  is  currently  offering  different
experiments in Mechanics, Waves, Electricity, Magnetism, and Optics. Now the lab has facilities for experimenting with
Speed of Light, Zeeman Effect, and Michelson Interferometer.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur provides round the clock health care facilities to Students, Faculty and Staff Members of the Institute,
at its residential campuses. The Health Center has five doctors and five supporting staff members. Both the Residential
Campuses have Health Centers for providing routine health services. Due to geographical locations of the two Campuses
and the type of the residents, Health Center at GPRA Campus provides services to the patients round the clock, while
medical services are available at BSNL Campus for limited hours in the evening, typically from 5 pm to 10 pm. In addition
to the availability of medical services at Residential Campuses, medical assistance is available at Academic Campus. This
assistance is normally provided from 3 pm to 4.30 pm, when laboratory sessions are in full swing and medical assistance
may be required. The Institute has its ambulance services available round-the-clock.
Besides the Health Centers, the Institute has empanelled five hospitals in the city of Jodhpur. Two of these hospitals
have  specializations  in  ophthalmology  and  one  in  orthopedic,  and  the  remaining  two  hospitals  are  the  best  known
general  purpose  hospitals  in  the  city.  For  specialized  medical  attention  doctors  at  our  Health  Centers  refer  patients
to one of these hospitals. In addition to these five hospitals, the city has a Medical College and three hospitals run by
Government  of  Rajasthan.  Also,  the  city  All  India  Institute  of  Medical  Sciences  (AIIMS),  which  is  nearly  12  km  GPRA
Campus and nearly 5 km from BSNL Campus. Also, the Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior
Doctors from the Medical College and the AIIMS; advice is taken for enhancement of medical services of the Health
Centers  and  in  critical  medical  cases.  IIT  Jodhpur  has  empanelled  two  hospitals  in  Jaipur.  These  two  hospitals  are
accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare, and patients can be referred to these hospitals
as per the need of the treatment.
The Health Center coordinates and supervises the treatment of students, employees, and their dependents during
hospitalization in other hospitals that are empaneled by the Institute, to provide in-patient care. Also, an ambulance is
available in the GPRA Residential Campus for attending to any medical emergencies.
On request, the Health Center extends its health care services to Institute visitors during their stay in the residential
campus.  Under  emergency  circumstances  medical  services  are  also  extended  to  the  non-IIT  Jodhpur  community
residents in the residential campus. Details like patient records, medicine procurement/disbursement, assets, equipment
of Health Center are all computerized.
Sports and games facilities to students are provided at four places, namely, the hostel premises, academic campus,
playground of Vidhyashram International School, and in the new campus area of Jai Narayan Vyas University. Conveyance
is taken care of by the Office of Logistics in the Institute. Students also enjoy a gymnasium facility at the residential
An SC/ST Cell for ensuring the proper utilization and adaptation of reservation policies and guidelines issued by the
Government of India, is functional at IIT Jodhpur. The Cell deals with matters related to grievances received from SC/ST
and OBC employees and students in the Institute. The Cell acts as a communicator between the Institute and the Ministry
of Human Research and Development in matters related to SC/ST and OBC students and employees in the Institute. IIT
Jodhpur has adopted the reservation policy while selecting the students for MCM scholarship. In addition, a substantial
number of SC students whose total family income is limited to Rs. 6 lakhs per annum, are deriving the benefit of Central
Sector Scholarship of Top Class Education available from the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.
Annual Report 2016-17
The  Women  Cell,  IIT  Jodhpur,  functions  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  contained  in
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
The following are some activities organized by the Women Cell during FY 2016-17.
Celebration of 2017 International Women’s Day
The 2017 International Women’s Day was pre-celebrated at the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur on 7 March
2016 at 4.30 pm. The program was organized by the Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur. The Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur, on the
occasion of the International Women’s Day, organized a Micro-Book Writing Competition their Students and Employees,
ahead of time. During this program, Prizes and Certificates of Appreciation were given away to the winners.  The event
had an invited talk by Latha Menon, noted ad film and documentary maker based in Chennai.
Kshema Prakash, Convener, Women Cell introducing
program to audience
Latha Menon addressing the audience
Audience enjoying the program
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
The “Student Gymkhana”, IIT Jodhpur, is divided into five “societies”, and in turn each society is divided into several
clubs. These societies fulfil the varied interests of the students and contribute to their holistic development. These six
1.  Academic, Research and Management (ARM) Society,
2.  Media, Arts and Design (MAD) Society,
3.  Nurturing-Understanding Technology and Science (NUTS) Society,
4.  Sports, Adventures, Games and Explorations (SAGE) Society, and
5.  Writing, Awareness, Vocals, Entertainment, Social (WAVES) Society.
Academic,	Research	and	Management	(ARM)	Society
The  Academic,  Research  and  Management  (ARM)  Society  is  a  platform  for  all  activities  and  initiatives  related  to
Academics and Research. It encourages academic and research activities in Institute among students. Also, the society
works towards effective involvement of students in the decision making. The Mission of the ARM Society is:
a.  To strengthen Student-Faculty interaction and take them beyond only formal association;
b.   To serve as a platform for students to undertake research projects under Faculty Members, and to create an
environment of cognizance in the student community pertaining to the real-life problems; and
c.   To organize various technical meets and seminars to expose students to the recent discoveries and
technological advancements and the innumerable opportunities that they can pursue.
Annual Report 2016-17
The functions and responsibilities of the ARM Society are:
a.  To help individual students address their specific academic concerns;
b.  To coordinate with the centralized academic facilities such as Computer Centre, Library and Reading Room;
c.  To support the Senate of the Institute on matters such as revision of academic curriculum; and
d.  To share concerns of the students on academic and research matters.
The  society  deals  with  all  matters  regarding  public  relations  and  management  of  the  various  activities  of  all  the
societies of Students’ Gymkhana which take place in the Institute. It helps in enhancing one’s personality, management
skills, public speaking, writing and coordination with student colleagues, towards overall development of students. The
following clubs operate under the society:
a.  Promotions Club
The Club writes content as well as reports for various Intra and Inter collegiate fests, special events and seminars,
which are held throughout the year. Also, it coordinates for the content to be published in local media.
b.  Public Speaking and Personality Development Club
Public speaking is one very important aspect which shows the personality of an individual. The club organizes
sessions to hone public speaking skills, increase confidence levels and makes students proficient in Public Speaking.
c.  Entrepreneurship Club
The  club  collaborates  with the  E-cells of other  institutes and  conducts various seminars and useful activities
related to entrepreneurship.
d.  Resource Management Club
The main work of this club is to manage resources during various inter and intra-level activities efficiently.
e.  Finance and Case-Studies Club
Many individuals are faced with investing and financing decisions at some point in their life. Having a firm grasp
over financial matters aids them in making those decisions. The club helps students undertake Case Studies which
help to see how the complexities of real life situations influence decision making.
Leadership	Enhancement	and	All-round	Development	(LEAD)	Club
This initiative aims at enhancing the overall personality and soft skills of the students, and prepares them for the
professional world. Workshops organized by professionals skilled in personality grooming, resume writing, personal
interview, etc. Group discussions, mock interviews and public-speaking sessions are conducted to train students
for interviews and help in their personality development. Students get a real-world exposure, while getting expert
guidance not only from professionals, but also from senior students.
Media,	Arts,	and	Design	(MAD)	Society
Creativity is more than just being different. Anybody can plan being weird; that’s easy. What’s hard is to be simple.
Making  the  simple,  awesomely  simple,  that’s  creativity.  The  society  makes  people  develop  their  imagination,  their
talent; teaching them the advancement in technology to enhance their knowledge in their field of interest. The society
has its independent activities, workshops and competitions under the following areas of interest:
a.	 Animatrons	(The	Animation	Club)
The Club teaches students to bring the animator out of them, via workshops by professionals and its own team.
With the blend of Stop Motion Animation and Software Animation, the Club moves towards paper animation, 2D
and 3D graphics animation, pixilation, flash light animation.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
b.	 Ateliers	(The	Fine	Arts	Club)
To play with colours is the passion of this Club. Training is imparted to students via workshops and competitions
in fine or decorative arts. We organize a lot of activities of interest like painting, sketching, glass etching, face and
T-shirt Painting, wax carving, and graffiti workshops. This Club gives shape to various festivals of IIT Jodhpur.
c.	 Designerds	(The	Designing	Club)
The  Club  designs  logos,  posters,  newsletters,  T-shirts,  etc.  The  Club  has  given  some  of  the  best  designers,
who can train with software, like Adobe Photoshop, Indesign and Illustrator. The Club members excel in graphic
designing which promotes thoughts and imagination. Also, the club has won competitions in Mood Indigo – IIT
d.	 Frame-X	(The	Film	Making	and	Video	Editing	Club)
The Club makes videos, record and edits them. The Club, constantly and actively, takes part in various Inter-
College Fests presenting short films or documentaries which have gained popularity. The Club members use the
most sophisticated HandyCams, GoPro cameras dealing with software, like Windows Movie Maker, Sony Vegas and
Adobe After Effects.
e.	 Porta	Talkies	(The	Movie	Screening	Club)
The Club is responsible for screening of movies, matches and on demand talks.
f.	 Shutterbugs	(The	Photography	and	Photo-Editing	Club)
The Club consistently holds its workshops on Photoshop and provides hands on experience on technically sound
semipro DSLR Cameras. The Club holds responsibility of all media coverage of student activities IIT Jodhpur.
Nurturing-Understanding	Technology	and	Science	(NUTS)	Society
With the thought “Imagination is more important than knowledge”, the Science and Technology Society (NUTS) of
IIT Jodhpur provides students an opportunity to think beyond the conventional boundaries of science, to realize their
dreams and develop the technology for the next generation. The following clubs operate under this society:
a.  Aeromodelling Club
The Aeromodelling Club is a group for aviation and Aeromodelling enthusiasts in the Institute. The Club provides
students an opportunity to make rockets, gliders, planes, hovercrafts and fly them up in the air. The activities of the
Club include lectures and workshops on various Aeromodelling and aviation topics and working on small projects.
b.  Automobile Club
The Club promotes students to design and make their own car. The Club has developed an eco-friendly manual
cum  electric  driven  vehicle.  The  Club  is  associated  with  an  international  body,  Society  of  Automotive  Engineers
(SAE), and encourages and prepares students to participate in national level competitions such as Effi Cycle and
c.  Astronomy Club
The Club organizes regular lectures and discussions to help students develop a better understanding of those
astronomy phenomenons in nature. The Club made a record at the Inter IIT-Tech Meet 2014 by detecting 72 objects
in the overnight observatory competition “The Messier Marathon”.
d.  Electronics Club
The Club makes students familiar with electronic circuits, and teaches them skills like working on mini computers
(such as beagle bone, Raspberry pie). Also, the club makes students familiar with analog as well as digital electronics
through various lectures and competitions organized throughout the year.
Annual Report 2016-17
e.  Robotics Club
The Club conducts regular lectures and workshops to provide students a hand on experience on technologies,
such as DTMF, image processing, and motion sensing. Today the Club is an active platform for students to display
and develop their practical machine-building skills and knowledge.
f.  Programming and Web Designing Club
With regular lectures, competitions and winter coding camp, the Club provides students a chance to learn from
people around them and improve their coding skills. Students get a chance to sit with a group of like-minded people
and prepare for various national and international level coding competitions.
g.  Science Club
The Club provides students an opportunity to solve the Rubik’s Cube, make their own angry bird station, and play
with air gun, Rube Goldberg etc. The activities of this club tests students’ imagination skills and help to improve it.
Sports,	Adventures,	Games	and	Explorations	(SAGE)	Society
Sports  are  known  for  producing  the  most  remarkable  athletes,  colourful  characters,  influential  leaders  and
memorable  heroes.  IIT  Jodhpur  Sports  and  Games  Society  reflects  the  same  spirit  of  introducing  sporting  activities
to the campus community. This society aims to promote sports and exercise in the true spirit of sportsmanship and
motivate students to work with team spirit. The Society strives and endeavours to inculcate and introduce this essential
activity as a part of the routine in every student’s life. All efforts are made to bring out and encourage the sports person
in each one under the guidance of professional coaches and with best sporting facility.
Individuals can be strong on their own, but they are much stronger in a team. Victory achieved alone can be sweet,
but there is nothing sweeter than sharing that moment with fellow members.  One of the rare times in life one learns to
play with his friends and some of his enemies, and yet learns to respect each one of them for the innate respect of the
sport. That is the essence of introducing sports in a student’s life to instill the qualities of vigour, sacrifice and overall
sportsman spirit. The society organizes the Institute team that participates in Inter IIT Sports Meet held annually at any
one of the IITs. Inter-IIT Championship title is much coveted in the whole IIT Jodhpur family. It is the place where every
sports student is given the opportunity to showcase his/her talent in respective sports and to wear the jersey and run
around the grounds representing the glorified history of respective IITs along with the responsibility to continue the
legacy. Every Inter-IIT player has this unique urge to win the game for the pride and the honour of the Institute, for
the blood, and the tears and the sweat to make a team and to earn the spot. The Institute has representation in the
sports, like Aquatics, Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Cricket, Football, Lawn Tennis, Squash, Table Tennis, Volleyball,
and Weightlifting at Inter IIT Sports Meet.
The  Institute  has  many  sporting events  lined  up  throughout the  year,  which act  as  a  platform  to  showcase your
talent and to keep the adrenaline levels racing. Every year the council organizes an Intra-Institute Sports Festival called
“KRIDANSH”. This sports fest is designed to attract mass participation. It sees the best sporting talents in the Institute
pitted against each other to fight for the glory of their respective branches. It has games like tug of wars, Kho-Kho and
Kabaddi, along with regulars.
In addition to sports, the society arranges several adventure tours and coordinates the Carrom Club, the Chess Club,
the Skating Club, the Yoga Club and the Joggers Club.
Writing,	Awareness,	Vocals,	Entertainment,	and	Social	(WAVES)	Society
WAVES is the fountainhead of all cultural activities in the institute. It provides students opportunities to pursue their
passion for performing arts and in honing their aesthetic sensibilities. Under WAVES, there are five Clubs, which function
throughout the year.
a.  Dance Club
The Dance Club organises activities ranging from Intra Institute to Inter-Collegiate events with a special emphasis
on  workshops  on  different  dance  forms.    The  team,  with  name  ‘dEFEATtHEbEAT’,  has  participated  in  different
college festivals across country, including Chaos (IIMA) and Mood Indigo (IITB) and has also been selected in Indian
Hip Hop Dance Championship auditions.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
b.  Music Club
The Music Club is all about passion and the platform you need to showcase them. Spanning from the students’
band performances for freshers, to the live stages of college festivals, Music Club brings opportunities for all the
interested  students.  The  major  highlights  include  Unplugged  Nights  and  the  Musical  Extravaganza.  Apart  from
these, music learning sessions are conducted for the beginners.
c.  Quiz Club
The main aim of the Club is to generate interest in quizzing as a fun activity that everyone can indulge in and
at the same time gain some handful amount of knowledge. The Club organizes interesting Quiz contests/sessions
throughout  the  year  to  expose  students  to  the  artistic  world  of  Quizzing  and  provide  a  platform  to  contest  at
several national and intra-collegiate quizzes.
d.  Drama Club
The Club, also known as “DRAMEBAAZ”, performs a variety of plays which are both didactic and simultaneously
entertaining.  Nukkad  performance  is  the  highlight  of  the  Republic  and  Independence  Day  celebrations  in  the
Institute, and is quite applauded by the audience, leaving them awestruck every time. Also, it performs stage plays.
e.  Literature Club
The Club works on the vision to explore a whole new world of books, belles-letters and the magic of words. The
Club is not all about writing, but hosts fun events like Jam, Shout, Hurdles, and Debates. Language is no bar; we
have both Hindi and English Literature Clubs.
g.  SPIC MACAY Club
The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Among Youth (SPIC MACAY) is a society that helps
protect and popularize our rich Indian heritage. SPIC MACAY IIT Jodhpur Chapter was formalized in the year 2012.
Student Fests & Events
The  Student  Gymkhana  of  the  Institute  organizes  events  with  dual  purpose.  On  the  one  side,  these  events  help
engage students in creative work during their leisure hours and thereby build skills and interests in them. And, on the
other side, these events help students to self-organise themselves and provide platforms for others to excel.
The events organized by the Student Gymkhana can be seen in two streams, namely:
1.  Inter-Institute Festivals and Tournaments; and
2.  Intra-Institute Festivals and Championships.
The students were successful in nurturing a culture filled with energy and initiative. They have organized events which
served as a medium of communication and bonding amongst themselves. Major festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Diwali,
Sankranti,  Eid  and  Holi  were  celebrated  with  great  enthusiasm.  Sports  activities  were  also  regularly  conducted  to
encourage sportsmanship, which were supported by the Faculty Members. The following are some of the major student
activities that had taken place in the campus in the year 2016-17.
Varchas is the inter-collegiate sports festival of IIT Jodhpur. The festival celebrates the spirit of sportsmanship and
serves as a platform to showcase countless hours of perspiration put in by college teams to achieve excellence in sports.
Varchas was first organized in the year 2011, with a vision of promoting sports among the colleges of India, and providing
the athletes in India, a platform to showcase their talent. Competitions are held in the fields of football, cricket, table
tennis, lawn tennis, badminton, squash, volleyball, basketball and athletics in national level stadiums of Jodhpur. Varchas
promotes healthy competition and is a great opportunity for the teams to prove their mettle in their respective sports.
Annual Report 2016-17
Moreover,  belonging  to  the  educated  core  of  the  country,  the  students  of  IIT  Jodhpur  try  to  fulfil  their  social
obligation  through  “SOCH  -The  Social  Aspect  of  Varchas”.  SOCH  is  a  platform  where  the  students  take  up  pertinent
social issues and try to find possible solutions through discussions and debates; spread awareness and conduct drives
to involve people spanning across varied backgrounds. An attempt is made to create a profound social impact for the
amelioration of the society.
In 2016, this sports festival was organized from 29 September to 2 October. The Chief Guest at Varchas 2016 was
Krishna Poonia, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna Awardee for her performance in Discus Throw. Varchas 2016 witnessed
a footfall of over 1000 participants and various competitions were conducted in events like athletics, volleyball, cricket,
football, table tennis, basketball, aquatics, chess and badminton.
Chief Guest at the Opening Ceremony of  Varchas 2016
IITJ Student, the torch bearer of Varchas 2016
Women’s Volley Ball Match during Varchas 2016
Winners being awarded
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
“Awaz”: A SOCH event chaired by Professor H. C. Verma, Professor, IIT Kanpur
A “Night Run”, which is a part of Varchas 2016, was organized on 1 October2016 at 9 pm. The benefit of this run was
accorded for the welfare of blind students. An overwhelming response was received from the people and athletes from
across the state of Rajasthan. The fest concluded on 2 October 2016.
IGNUS, the techno-cultural fest of IIT Jodhpur was celebrated from 23-26 February 2017. The flagship events that
were organised during this fest were Robosoccer, Nrityansh, Clash of Bands, Robowar, and Antarang. Workshops on
useful and interesting topics like Internet of Things (IoT), Sixth Sense Robotics, Android App Development were also
organized. Famous singer Mika Singh performed during the pronite.
Technical & Cultural Events during IGNUS 2017
IIT Jodhpur Student Gymkhana hosts Intra-Institute Festivals for its own student community. They are:
Spandan  is  the  Intra-Institute  cultural  fest  of  IIT  Jodhpur,  usually  the  first  fest  of  the  session.  It  draws  an
enthusiastic  crowd,  eager  to  portray  their  talents  in  the  cultural  arena.  Versatility  in  the  various  categories  is
extensive,  with  competitions  organized  in  fields,  like  drama,  dance,  singing,  literature,  photography  events,
informals and fashion show. Three days of Spandan awakens the whole campus leaving the students to prepare all
night. Spandan is one of the first public occasions to take place in the year, and hence it brings together students
from all years to interact with each other. Participation with zeal and showcasing the hidden creativity tamed inside
an individual, are the motives of the fest.
Annual Report 2016-17
Nimble, the Intra-College technical fest provides a platform to the techno buds of the Institute to show their
hidden talent. Nimble comprises of four action packed days, filled with a great variety of tech and science events
ranging from intense mind boggling events (such as robotics, electronics and programming) to fun filled events (like
angry bird, quizzes, and crypto)). Apart from the events, talks are organized by eminent personalities in the field
of Science and Technology, to motivate students to work harder, as there is no end to discoveries and inventions.
Kalakriti is a mixed bag of fun-filled competitions, interesting workshops and back-to-back movie screenings.
“Because  everything  you  can  imagine  is  real!”:  this  line  wakes  up  the  dormant  talent  amongst  students  and
the  output  is  sudden  burst  of  colors.  With  a  multitude  of  events  ranging  from  Fine  Arts  and  Clay  Modelling,  to
Photography and Video Editing, ‘Kalakriti’ witnesses huge participation from designers and non-designers alike.
Events like ‘Scribble Day’ brings together the entire final year batch of students, whom all the other students bid
adieu and leave a farewell message or graffiti on a common piece of cloth given to them. A great way to bring smile
on everyone’s face, ‘Kalakriti’ succeeds in spreading joy, unity and togetherness in the small tight-knit community
Kridansh  is  organized  to  give  sports  enthusiasts  a  chance  to  pursue  their  passion  in  sports.  Matches  are
organized  both  outdoor  and  indoor,  such  as  Gully  Cricket,  Street  Football  and  Single  Court  Basketball,  Chess,
Carroms, Badminton, Table Tennis, and Swimming. Full-fledged dedication from participants and organizers makes
Kridansh one of the liveliest events of the year.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
The prime objective of the team is to organize the Orientation Program. This is especially tailored to bring the freshers
up to speed with life in Institute, while maintaining a homely feel, and gently enabling the transition into this Institute.
The Counseling Service has been an integral part of the Institute since its inception. Every year, it strives hard to ensure
that every student gets to know IITJ at its most intricate levels, and absorb all that the Institute has to offer. Further, the
Counseling Service Team takes care of special language needs that some students might face during this time. It spares
no effort in this, and work towards making this transition memorable throughout their lives.
The Counseling Service Team consists of a Faculty Advisor with 30 students (called Student Guides) bestowed to
work for welfare of students. A Student Guide is the backbone of the team, with every guide taking 8-10 freshers under
his/her  vision  and  guidance.  The  Student  Guide  works  towards  helping  the  student  adjusts  well  in  the  hostel  and  in
his academic life. The Student Guide keeps in continuous touch with the student and his/her family. The team ensures
that not only the student, but his/her parents too get the opportunity to interact with the Student Guide, to maintain a
healthy relationship. As part of this Counseling, it is the duty of the team to promote development of the student in all
three aspects, namely:
For this purpose, voluntary, confidential and free counselling service is offered for a wide range of issues that include:
Academic support: Providing information about the different academic programs of the Institute, imparting efficient
time management skills and study skills;
2.  Personal: Overcoming homesickness, adjusting to the new environment and related difficulties;
3.  Counselling advocacy: Psycho-education and referral services to students;
Interaction with the Institute and the existing body of students; and
5.  Encouraging students to discover their extra-curricular interests/hobbies.
Counselling service also focuses on the concerns and difficulties of the students by providing personal guidance to deal
with problems arising during their college life at the Institute. The following activities are undertaken by the Counseling
1.  Maintaining the Institute as a ragging free campus;
Organizing “Orientation Program” every year,  for the sophomore batch so as to make them acquainted with the
culture of IIT Jodhpur;
3.  Organizing workshops related to:
a.  Career counselling,
b.  Stress management,
c.  Time management,
d.  Health care and hygiene,
e.  Vocational training,
f.  Relationship problems,
g.  Coping with homesickness and
h.  Addiction and others;
4.  Conducting motivational talks by eminent speakers;
5.  Addressing the academic problems of the students by conducting:
a.  English language sessions for students from vernacular background, and
b.  Basic Information Technology (IT) skill building sessions etc.;
Individually attending to problems of students with poor academic performance.
6.  Organizing interaction building events amongst students of different batches, and with faculty members etc.; and
Launched in 2014, the IIT Jodhpur Counseling Service is continuing the Campus Mentoring System. In this system, a
group of students are associated with one Faculty Member and one Staff Member, who in turn act as the Mentors of
Annual Report 2016-17
Student Placement Cell
The Office of Student Placements (OSP) is run and managed by the students in sync with the official authorities,
thereby taking care of the placement and internship procedures. The students coordinate the job of contacting various
companies, their interaction with the students, arranging pre-placement talks, tests, and interviews.
In  2016-17,  companies  in  core  engineering,  information  and  communication  technology,  and  banking  sector,
government and public sector organizations have visited IIT Jodhpur for placements.
Total 69 of our students i.e., 67 B.Tech. Students and 2 M.Tech. Students, have been placed with different companies
in the year 2016-17.
Their details of companies and placements are as below.
B.Tech. Placements for the year 2016 - 2017
Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO)
Tata Consultancy Services
National Engineering Services
10. Mahindra & Mahindra
Number of Students
Selected per Branch
Total Number of
CSE ME EE SS BISS
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
B.Tech. Placements for the year 2016 - 2017
Number of Students
Selected per Branch
Total Number of
M.Tech. Placements for the year 2016 - 2017
Tata Consultancy Services
Number of Students
Selected per Branch
Total Number of
Annual Report 2016-17
The Office of Alumni Relations of the Institute works for the alumni of the Institute, no matter where the alumni
live. The Office is a canvas of collective experiences and shared memories. We urge the Alumni to share with us your
stories of both struggle and success. As brand ambassadors of the Institute and torch bearers of change, this special
bond between the Alumni and the Institute should be the catalyst for valuable exchange between the Institute and the
The Office of Alumni Relations is managed by the Alumni Relations Committee, consisting of two Faculty Members
and four Students.
All students completing any specific degree program at IIT Jodhpur become Life Members with the Office of Alumni
Relations and no fee is associated with the membership.
IIT Jodhpur alumni secure ranks in GATE 2017
The following B.Tech. Students of Class of 2012 have secured ranks in GATE 2017 exam.
B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
B.Tech. (Mechanical Engineering)
B.Tech. (Electrical Engineering)
AIR 7 (EE)
AIR 22 (ME)
AIR 24 (EE)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Registered Students in IIT Jodhpur
IIT Jodhpur has, as on 31 March 2017, a total of 760 students registered in various programs offered by the Institute.
The table and chart below depict the program-wise break-up of the registered students in the Institute.
Year of Registration
Annual Report 2016-17
Following are lists of students registered in various programs offered by the Institute, detailed according to the Centers
and Branches of the various programs.
Sl. No.  Roll No.
Dharmendra Singh Rajpurohit Energy
Vikas Pratap Singh
Vikash Chandra Janu
Surendra Singh Barala
Puneet Kumar Jain
Ram Niwash Mahia
Ravi Raj Choudhary
Shejale Kiran Prakash
Pradumn Kumar Pandey
Aditya Raw Gautam
Goutam Kumar Gupta
Om Prakash Mahela
Raj Kumar Satankar
Satendra Pal Singh
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sl. No.  Roll No.
Anuj Kumar Bharti
Arun Kumar Upadhyay
Rakhi N. K.
Ajay Kumar Mahato
Ram Niwas Verma
Bibin G Anand
Brajesh Kumar Shukla
Erum Gul Naz
Phadatare Hanmant Pandurang ME
Javid Ahmad Naikoo
Vijendra Singh Bhati
Annual Report 2016-17
Arka Ujjal Dey
Tushar Shankar Shinde
Gajendra Singh Chawda
Aniket Dilip Monde
Vibhuti Bhushan Pandey
Urgunde Ajay Bhimashankar
Amit Kumar Gangwar
Vishwa Deepak Kumar
Waris Nawaz Khan
Ram Milan Sahani
Naveen Kumar Mangal
Sl. No.  Roll No.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Post Graduate Students
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2015
Sl. No. Roll No
M.Tech. Students, Batch 2016
Sl. No. Roll No
Shiv Ram Suthar
Shravan Singh Rao
Shubhendu Prashant Singh
Joshi Sonal Sunil
Arimardan Singh Chauhan
Shyam Sundar Maurya
Pratik V Paliwal
Vikas Kumar Upadhyay
Mohammmad Ashhar Tufail
Manish Kumar Jaiswal
Sumer Chand Saini
Annual Report 2016-17
Sanjeeda Bharati Das
Bhagya Shree Meena
Dharmendra Kumar Gurjar
Akshay Kumar R
Vinod Singh Adhikary
Sagar Satish Jha
Kshitij Kumar Pandey
M.Sc. Students, Batch 2015
Sl. No. Roll No
M.Sc. Students, Batch 2016
Sl. No. Roll No
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2013
Sl. No. Roll No
Abhay Kumar Singh
Avan Jayendra Rathod
Komanduri Sai Raghava
Makarand Milind Gomashe
Nikhil Jeevansingh Taji
Ravi Prakash Gupta
Ravindra Kumar Saini
Shiv Kumar Sen
Upendra Singh Chauhan
Vaghela Rajan Arvindkumar
Annual Report 2016-17
Sl. No. Roll No
Kshitij Sandeep Minocha
Abhishek Kumar Yadav
Anirudh Singh Shaktawat
Dinesh Kumar Danwa
Dipender Singh Ridmalot
Hede Tejan Rohit
Paduru Kandarpa Sai
Rajendra Kumar Yadav
Syed Afshan Ali
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sl. No. Roll No
Arpit Kumar Gahlot
Dheeraj Kumar Sisodiya
Harsh Vardhan Shrivastava
Himanshu Kumar Singh
K. Lakshmi Phalguni
Manish Rajendra Jadhav
Patel Harsh Bhupendrabhai
Vaghela Nirav Jitendrakumar
Annual Report 2016-17
Sl. No. Roll No
Gaikwad Sangram Dasharath
Jayant V. Khapre
Joshi Achyut Sanjay
Lingala  Prasantha Kumar
Naresh Kumar Prajapati
Saroj Prasad Chhatoi
Ajay Kumar Kumawat
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sl. No. Roll No
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2014
Sl. No. Roll No
Abhimanyu Singh Gaur
Archil Kumar Srivastava
B Sree Siddharth
Chaudhari Akshay Gajanan
Edula Hari Hara Reddy
Ganesh Bhimrao Patil
Gutapu Raj Kumar
Kommuru Vinay Kumar
Annual Report 2016-17
Sl. No. Roll No
Rinku Kumar Meena
Rohan Govind Saraf
Vijay Kumar Paliwal
Angad Singh Sabherwal
Dara Shanmukha Sai Sanjay Gupta EE
Jaiswal Ronak Nilesh
Jay Bhavin Sheth
Kaviti Sarath Kalyan
Naveen Kumar Chittoriya
Parmar Sunny Mukeshkumar
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sl. No. Roll No
Shah Neelkumar Sureshkumar
Sudhir Pratap Yadav
Thara Giriraj Prasad
Vamsi Prudhvi Chintaguntala
Vanam Bhanu Sai Simha
Akshay Vinay Bapat
Bandi Sai Mukesh
Boghara Pruthvi Rameshbhai
Jerry Mathew Oommen
Kartik Venkata Ramachandruni
Katakam Harsha Sai Manohar
Parella Ravi Teja
Pothula Krishna Teja
Shinde Shubham Bhaskar
Annual Report 2016-17
Sl. No. Roll No
Udit Singh Parihar
Uma Shankar Sharma
B Sai Chaitanya
Devanshu Bhavin Kathrecha
K. Tejas Reddy
Vaibhav Baban Ganer
Dinesh Kumar Maurya
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2015
Sl. No. Roll No
Anant Kumar Singh
Bagannagari Vinay Kumar Reddy
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sl. No. Roll No
Bhamare Nikhil Daryavsing
Bhuma Ayyappa Sumanth
Indra Kumar Malav
Joukani Vinit Pradeep
Kansagara Bhargav Dineshbhai
Praveen Kumar T
Rishabh Arun Kanabar
Shukla Anugrah Harish Kumar
Swapnil Ganesh Athawale
Amitesh Kumar Jigyasu
Bhanwar Singh Choudhary
Braj Raj Nagar
Inderpreet Singh Chhabra
Annual Report 2016-17
Sl. No. Roll No
Karanveer Singh Thakur
Krunal Sanjay Chirmade
Lalit Kumar Bamanawat
Nilesh Kumar Tiwari
Shitendra Kumar Tyagi
Shreyas Malakarjun Patil
Vadde Keerthi Aishwarya
Aditya Raj Malviya
Chandrapratap Singh Raghuvanshi ME
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sl. No. Roll No
Keshetty Sai Surya
Meka Lalit Sai Chandra Reddy
Nakka Sanket Gangadhar
Perisetla Srinivasa Deepak
Quadri Syed Mujtaba Syed Maqsood ME
Sunil Kumar Sakhnia
Vartha Divyesh Yashvant
Vineet Singh Chauhan
Vivek Kumar Singh
B. Tech. Students, Batch 2016
Sl. No. Roll No
Ashutosh Kumar Jatav
Chetan Prakash Meena
Kuldeep Singh Jangir
Machabathuni Vijay Siddharth
Manvendra Singh Kushwah
Nagalgaonkar Vinay Ramkishan
Annual Report 2016-17
Sl. No. Roll No
Naramala Mourya Mithra
Nikunj Kumar Labana
Nirne Shivam Chandrakant
Parate Aniket Kishor
Patel Shreya Hasmukh
Qazi Sajid Azam
Sai Kishore Kesaram
Sairipally Sai Surya
Saksham Sanjay Banga
Adit Raj Gautam
Akhil Kumar Singh
Ayush Mukund Gupta
Hemendra Kumar Singh
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Sl. No. Roll No
Kasar Rajat Sanjay
Mukesh Kumar Das
Patil Rushabh Hemant
Pravendra S Khinchi
Rakshith Ramakanth Malapalli
Sourabh Kumar Meena
Yash Kumar Chouhan
Deependra Singh Bhati
Gulab Chand Meena
Jitendra Kumar Meena
Joshi Parth Jayeshbhai
Nale Ruturaj Shivaji
Annual Report 2016-17
Sl. No. Roll No
Shiv Kumar Mudgal
Subham Kant Das
Sudhir Kumar Kushwaha
Vinod Kumar Saini
Peela Subash Chandra Bose
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has released a sum of Rs. 25000.10 Lakhs as Grant-in-Aid
under Normal Plan Head and Rs. 1938.07 Lakh as opening balance as on 01-04-2016. The internal income of the Institute
was Rs. 1021.08 Lakh. The total Plan expenditure during the year was Rs. 25502.91 Lakh (Recurring Rs. 3500.68 Lakh and
Non-Recurring Rs. 22002.23 Lakh).
Annual Report 2016-17
Image Credits: Vidya Sarveswaran
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar,  Jodhpur 342037
Annual Report 2016-17