Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Academics
NH 65,  Nagaur  Road,  Karwar,  Jodhpur
342011,  INDIA Phone: (0291) 280 1132;
Admission to M.Tech. and M.Tech.-Ph.D Dual Degree Programmes, AY 2024-25
Applications  are  invited  for  admission  to  M.Tech.  and    M.Tech.-Ph.D    Dual    Degree
programmes in the first  semester  of 2024-2025.
These  M.Tech.  and  M.Tech.-Ph.D  Dual  Degree  programmes  have  been  designed  to
empower  students  with  the  latest  in  technology,  including  hands-on,  with  a  strong
foundation for multi-disciplinary innovation.
Computer        Science       and
M.Tech.   and  M.  Tech.-Ph.D.   Dual  Degree   in
Bioscience and Bioengineering
M.Tech.   and   M.Tech.-Ph.D    Dual    Degree    in   Artificial
M.Tech.  and  M.Tech.-Ph.D.  Dual  Degree    in  Computer
Science  and Engineering
M.Tech.  and  M.Tech.-Ph.D.   Dual  Degree  in  Sensors  and
Internet  of Things
M.Tech.  and  M.Tech.-Ph.D.   Dual  Degree  in Cyber
M.Tech.  and    M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual   degree in Intelligent
M.Tech. and M.Tech.-Ph.D.   Dual  Degree  in Intelligent
M.Tech.   and   M.Tech-Ph.D.    Dual   Degree    in   Data   and
M.Tech.  in  Advanced  Manufacturing   and  Design
M.Tech.  and  M.Tech-Ph.D   Dual  Degree  in  Thermofluids
M.Tech.-Ph.D.   Dual  Degree  in  Advanced  Manufacturing
M.Tech.-Ph.D.   Dual  Degree  in  Mechanical  Design
M.Tech.  and   M.Tech.-Ph.D.    Dual   Degree   in   Materials
M.Tech.   and   M.Tech.-Ph.D.    Dual   Degree    in   Chemical
Civil     and      Infrastructure
IDRP-Robotics  and Mobility
School of Artificial Intelligence
& Data Science
Quantum Information and
M.Tech.  and  M.Tech-Ph.D   Dual  Degree  in  Infrastructure
Engineering      with     specialization    in     Environmental
M.Tech.  and  M.Tech.-Ph.D  Dual  Degree  in  Infrastructure
Engineering  with specialization  in Energy
M.Tech.  in  Robotics  and Mobility Systems
M.Tech. in Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR & VR)
M.Tech. in Quantum Technologies
full-time  regular  candidates  w i t h /without
These  programmes  w i l l   admit  eligible
assistantships,  self-sponsored  candidates  as  well  as  working  professionals  as  part-
time/external/full-time sponsored  candidates.  The details of these categories  are summarized as
(a) M.Tech. Admissions Categories: A  candidate  can  be  admitted  in  M.Tech.  program in  any
one of the following categories:
(i) Full-time Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship: In campus candidate who can register
for  up  to  full  permissible  credits  per  semester.  A fixed  number  of  full-time candidates
having a valid  GATE  Score  will  get  financial  support  as  per  MHRD notified rate. A full-
time student with a  valid  GATE  Score  can  also  get  financial support from sponsored
research project funded by an industry or   a   government agency  at  a  rate equivalent to
or higher than MHRD stipulated rate.
(ii)  Full-time Regular without Assistantship/Fellowship: In campus candidate  who  can register
for  up  to  full  permissible  credits   per   semester.   A   GATE   qualified   candidate will  be
admitted under this category without financial support.  The admitted candidate may
be  awarded  fellowship  in  the  subsequent  semester  based  upon  availability  of  financial
resources.   All candidates admitted  under this category, will  be  paying  the  same
fees as applicable to the category Full-time Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship.
(iii)  Self-sponsored: In  campus  candidate  who  can  register  for  up  to  full  permissible  credits
per  semester  but  is  not  eligible  to  receive  fellowship.  These candidates  will  be  self-
sponsored and will be paying fees as per rates notified for this category of students.
(iv)   Full-time   Sponsored:   In   campus   candidate   who   can   register   for   up   to  full   credit
permissible   per  semester  and  is  sponsored   by  his/her  employer.   Sponsorship   fees
will be notified  by the institute.
(v)   Part-time:   A  part-time   candidate   is  a  working   professional   who,  while   employed,
attend   regular   classes   as  per  the  schedule   of  the  Institute.   The student must be
employed  in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur.  The student  must produce  a NOC from
the  employer for  pursuing the  programme at  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  student can  register
only  for a limited  number  of credits  as compared  to a full-time  regular  student.  A per
credit  tuition  fee will be specified.
(vi)    Part-time  (online):  A  part-time  (online)  candidate  is  a  working  professional  who,  while
employed,  attend  classes  in a synchronous  audio-visual  mode  over internet  as per the
schedule of  the  Institute including limited  contact  sessions.  The  student  is  expected
to  register for  limited number of  credits per semester.   The student should not  be
employed  in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur.  The student  must produce  a NOC from
the  employer for  pursuing the  programme at  IIT  Jodhpur.    The  student  can  register
only  for a limited  number  of credits  as compared  to a full-time  regular  student.  A per
credit  tuition  fee will be specified.
(vii)  Part-time  (Project  sponsored):  A  part-time  candidate  receiving  fellowship  at  least  at  the
MHRD  stipulated    rate   being    supported    through    research    projects    running    in    the
institute.  The student can register only for a limited number of credits as compared to a
full-time regular  student.
The student is expected to receive fellowship for minimum of 36 months. The student will be paying fees at
the same rate as that of full time GATE Qualified  candidates.  The Department  will process the applications
ONLY if such a position  is available  in the respective M. Tech.  program.
(b)  M.Tech.-Ph.D.   Admissions Categories:  A  candidate can  be  admitted in  M.Tech.-Ph.D.
program  in any  one  of the following  categories:
(i)   Full-time  Regular  with  Fellowship:  In campus  candidate  who can register  for up to full
permissible credit  per  semester  during  course  work.  All full time  candidates  having  a
valid GATE  S c o r e  w i l l  get fellowship   applicable f o r  Ph.D.  Students a s  per MHRD
notified  rate. A full time student  with a valid GATE Score can also get financial support
from  a sponsored  research  project  funded  by an  industry  or a government agency  at
a  rate  equivalent t o  or  higher than  MHRD stipulated rate.  All  candidates   admitted
under  this  category   will  be  paying  the  same  fees  as  applicable   to  this  category   as
notified  by the institute.
(ii)   Part-time:   A  part-time   candidate   is  a  working   professional   who,  while   employed,
attend   regular   classes   as  per  the  schedule   of  the  Institute.   The student must be
employed  in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur.  The student  must produce  a NOC  from
the  employer for  pursuing the  programme at  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  student can  register
only for a limited  number  of credits  as compared  to a full-time  regular  student.
(iii)  External:    A    candidate    working    in    an    industry/R&D     establishment/academic
institution which  is  equipped with  the  necessary research  and  library  facilities.  The
employer must  relieve the  student  to  stay  in  the  campus  to  complete the  minimum
(iv)    Part-time  (online):  A  part-time  (online)  candidate  is  a  working professional  who,  while
employed,  attend  classes  in  a  synchronous  audio-visual  mode  as  per  the  schedule  of
the  Institute  including  limited  contact  sessions.  The  student  is  expected  to  register  for
limited number of credits per semester. The student will need to spend at least 12 months
in the campus before submission of the Ph.D thesis distributed over the entire period of
the programme as per the academic requirement. The student must produce a NOC from
the employer for pursuing the programme   at   IIT   Jodhpur certifying that the employer
will also provide access to resources for proper execution of the research work.
A.  Application Procedure
Applicants  are requested to use  the following  link(s) to fill and submit  the application
(a) https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=47          (for M.Tech)
(b) https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=48      (for M.Tech.- Ph.D.)
For admission to the 2024-25 First Semester commencing in July 2024, this online link will remain
active till 20 April, 2024.
Applicants  are required  to pay the processing  fee of Rs.300  for General  and OBC applicants  and
Rs.150  for SC, ST, and PD applicants  online  while  submitting the application form.
In case of any query with respect to online application, candidates may contact Office of Academics
(office_academics_pg@iitj.ac.in)  and  other  general  queries  may  be  directed  to  the offices  of  the
respective departments (See Section G of this letter).
All qualified applicants, interested to apply for M.Tech.  programme  under  the  admission category
Full-time  Regular  eligible  for  Assistantship/Fellowship,  should  register  first  in  the  Common  Offer
Acceptance Portal (COAP). After successful completion of registration at COAP 2024, applicants will
receive the "COAP Registration No.", which is essential to apply online at IIT Jodhpur. The "COAP
Registration No." is  further  required  for  making  decision  against admission offers during the time
windows to be announced on the COAP 2024 portal.  For candidate without GATE (i.e B.Tech. from
CFTIs, part-time, sponsored and external) will be informed directly by the IIT Jodhpur.
B.  The admissions t o   M.Tech.   Program   is  also  offered   to  foreign   nationals   under  different
schemes    administered    by   Government    of   India,   such   as   Cultural    Exchange    Fellowship
Programme  by  Indian  Council  of Cultural  Relations  (ICCR),  Study  in India  and  others.  Persons
Commission/Embassy   in   their    respective    countries.    For    general    queries,    international
candidates may  refer  to  http://iitj.ac.in/intladm/.
in  these  programmes  are  required
Applicants  from  Defence  Forces  may  be  considered  for  admission  to  the  external  M.Tech.
programme.  Eligibility criteria  for  applicants from  Defence Forces  will  be  the  same  as  that  of
the  regular  students  with  an  exemption of  GATE  score.  The  program  will  be  governed by  the
academic n o r m s  of the IITJ.   The respective o r g a n i z a t i o n  h a s  to  ensure and undertake
t h e  responsibility for  giving  adequate  facilities  and  time  to the  officer  during  the  Coursework
and Thesis/Project work.
C. Eligibility for Admission
The eligibility criteria prescribed below are the absolute minimum.  Kindly make a note that the
eligibility for admissions to different Dual degree (M.Tech.-Ph.D.) programs will be the same as regular
M.Tech. programs  of the concerned Department. The general eligibility criteria for admissions  is as
(i)     The  applicant  must  have  bachelor’s  degree  in engineering or science  (4 year  program)
or a master’s  degree  in science,  MCA, Pharmacy,  Medical  Sciences,  Agricultural  Sciences
and Veterinary  Sciences  or in a related  field.
(ii)     A  minimum  of  60%  marks  for  GEN/OBC  (55%  for  SC/ST/PD)  category  in  aggregate
or as specified  by the university/institute or a minimum  CGPA  of 6.0 for GEN/OBC  (5.5
for   SC/ST/PD)    category    on   the   scale    of   10;   with   corresponding   proportional
requirements   when  the  scales  are  other  than  on  10  (for  example   4.8  for  GEN/OBC
category  (4.4  for  SC/ST/PD)  on a scale  of 8) or a first-class  as specified  by the
university/institute.  The  candidates  from  the  CFTI  having  CGPA/CPI  more  than  8
may be given preference.
(iii)     Full-time Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship: The applicant must either have a valid
GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MHRD circular or have qualified an equivalent
National   Examination   a n d / or   have   qualified   in   the   written   test   and/or interview
conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
For Part-time/ Part-time (online)/ External/ Employer Sponsored: The applicant must have a
minimum  of  two  years  of  work  experience  (after  qualifying  degree)  in  industry/R&D
laboratories/Academic  Institutions   at  the  time  of  registration   to  the  program.   The
applicant  must  qualify  the written  test and/or  interview  conducted  by IIT Jodhpur.
The  qualifying  degree  and  GATE  requirements  (only  for  Full-time  Regular  eligible
Assistantship/Fellowship and Full-time Regular without Assistantship/Fellowship), specific to different
M.Tech. programs, can be summarized as follows:
(1) For  Bioscience and  Bioengineering:
B.Tech.,  B.E.  or B.Sc.
B. Tech.  from  any of the
CFTIs  with  CPI or CGPA
8/10  or above
(2) For Artificial  Intelligence:
B.Tech  or  B.E.  (any  Branch  of
M.Sc. (any discipline), M.C.A., M. Statistics
B. Tech. from any of the CFTIs (any
branch of Engineering) M. Statistics,
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above
Valid  GATE  score  (Students  from  all      Masters  and
Engineering   backgrounds   with   training   in   biology
or applied  fields  may apply)
The    requirement    of    valid     GATE
score    is exempted
Valid  GATE  score  (CS/ IT/ EE/ EC)
The    requirement    of    valid     GATE      score    is
(3) For Computer  Science  and Engineering:
B.Tech     or     B.E.     (Computer      Science     and
Engineering;   Computer  Engineering;  Information
Technology;  Computer  Science;  Electronics
Engineering;  Electrical    Engineering;  Communication
Engineering;  Artificial  Intelligence;  or an y other degree
name  involving  a combination  of above  disciplines),
M.Sc.  (Computer     Science; Computer  Engineering);
Computer Science; Electronics Engineering;  Electrical
Engineering;  Communication  Engineering;  Artificial
Intelligence;     or    any    other    degree    name involving
a  combination  of  above  disciplines), M.Sc. (Computer
Science;  Computer  Engineering);  from  any  of  the
CFTIs with CPI or CGPA 8/10
(Computer  Science  and  Engineering;
Valid  GATE  score  (in  CS/  IT)
The requirement  of valid  GATE
score  is exempted
(4) For Sensors  and Internet  of Things:
B.   Tech.,    B.E.    or   B.Sc.    (Engineering)    in
Electrical  Engineering/  Electronics  and
Science  and Engineering
B.      Tech.       in      Electrical       Engineering/
Engineering/    Instrumentation Engineering/
Computer    Science    and   Engineering    from
any  of  the  CFTIs  with  CPI  or  CGPA  of  8/10
Valid  GATE  score  in  EE/EC/IN/CS
The requirement  of valid GATE  score  is
(5) For Cyber Physical  Systems:
B.  Tech.,   B.E.   or  B.Sc.   (Engineering)   in
Electrical  Engineering/  Electronics
Instrumentation          Engineering/  Computer
Science  and Engineering
B.     Tech.     in     Electrical     Engineering/
Electronics              and        Communication
Engineering/Computer      Science       and
Engineering   from  any  of  the  CFTIs  with CPI
or CGPA  of 8/10  or above
(6) For Intelligent  Communication Systems:
B. Tech.,  B.E. or B.Sc.  (Engineering)  in
Electrical     Engineering/      Electronics and
Communication Engineering/ Computer
Science  and Engineering
B.    Tech.     in    Electrical     Engineering/
Engineering  from any of the CFTIs with CPI or
CGPA  of 8/10  or above
(7) For Data and Computational Sciences:
B.Tech.,  B.E.,  M.Sc.,  or equivalent
Valid  GATE  score  in  EE/EC/IN/CS
The requirement  of valid GATE
score  is exempted
Valid  GATE  score  in EC
The requirement  of valid GATE
score  is exempted
Valid   GATE   score   (Aerospace   Engineering,
Technology,  Electronics  and  Communication
Mathematics,  Statistics, Engineering  Sciences,
B.  Tech.  from  any  of  the  CFTIs  with
CPI  or CGPA  8/10  or above
The  requirement  of valid  GATE  score
(8) For  Advanced Manufacturing a n d   Design/Advanced  Manufacturing:
B.Tech.,   B.E.   or  B.Sc.   (Manufacturing
Engineering,   Mechanical   Engineering,
Production  Engineering,  Aerospace
Valid  GATE  score  (in  Mechanical
/  Aerospace  Engineering  /  Production
and Industrial Engineering)
B.  Tech.  (Manufacturing  Engineering,
Mechatronics   Engineering)   from  any of  the
CFTIs with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above
The  requirement  of valid  GATE  score  is
(9) For Mechanical Design:
B.Tech.,    B.E.    or    B.Sc.    (Mechanical
B.        Tech.   (Mechanical   Engineering,
Engineering,  Mechatronics Engineering)  from
any   of   the   CFTIs with  CPI  or  CGPA  8/10 or
Valid  GATE  score  (in  Mechanical
/  Aerospace  Engineering  /  Production
and Industrial Engineering)
The   requirement    of   valid    GATE    score
(10) For Thermofluids  Engineering:
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Mechanical Engineering,
Engineering     and    Power Plant Engineering)
Valid  GATE  score  (in  Mechanical
Engineering/ Aerospace    Engineering
B.     Tech.     (Mechanical     Engineering,
Aerospace                    Engineering,  Chemical
Engineering  and  Power  Plant  Engineering)
from  any  of  the  CFTIs with CPI or CGPA 8/10
The  requirement  of valid  GATE  score  is
(11) For  Materials  Engineering:
B.Tech.,  B.E. or B.Sc.  (Engineering),
B. Tech. from any of the CFTIs with
CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above
Valid        GATE        score (in any discipline)
The requirement of a valid GATE score is exempted
(12) For Chemical  Engineering:
B.Tech.,     B.E.,     B.Sc.     (Engg),     M.Sc.,
equivalent    in    Chemical    Engineering    or
B. Tech.  (Chemical  Engineering  or allied
Valid GATE score (in any discipline)
The requirement  of valid GATE score is
discipline)  from  any of the CFTIs  with CPI
or CGPA 8/10 or above
(13) For Infrastructure  Engineering  with specialization in Environment  Engineering:
B.Tech./B.E.  or equivalent  degree  in  Civil
or Environmental Engineering
Valid  GATE  score  (in any  discipline)
B.     Tech.     in     Civil      or Environmental
Engineering   from  any  of  the  CFTIs  with
or CGPA  8/10  or above
The  requirement   of  valid  GATE  score  is
(14) For Infrastructure Engineering  with specialization in Energy:
B.Tech.,         B.E.         or         B.Sc.          (Civil
Engineering,                  Electrical  Engineering,
Chemical      Engineering,  and  Power  Plant
Valid  GATE  score
(in  Civil  Engineering,
Mechanical  Engineering,                      Electrical
Engineering,    Chemical Engineering)
Valid  GATE  score  (in  Physics)   or  equivalent
National  level  Examination
The  requirement    of  valid  GATE  score
B.    Tech.    (Civil    Engineering,  Mechanical
Chemical  Engineering,  and    Power    Plant
Engineering)   from any  of the  CFTIs  with
CPI  or  CGPA  8/10  or above
(15) For Robotics  and Mobility  Systems:
B.  Tech.,  B.E.  or  B.Sc.  (Engineering)    in
Communication Engineering/  Computer
Engineering/    Aerospace  Engineering/
Automobile  Engineering/    Aeronautical
Valid  GATE  score  in  Aerospace  Engineering/
Electronics  and Communication Engineering/
The requirement of valid GATE Score is
B. Tech. in Mechanical Engineering/
Electrical Engineering/  Electrical and
Communication Engineering/  Computer
Science and Engineering/ Instrumentation
and Control Engineering/  Aerospace
Engineering/  Automobile  Engineering/
Aeronautical Engineering/  Engineering
Physics or Equivalent from any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA of 8/10 or above
(16) For School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science:
B. Tech. from any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above:
Valid GATE score
The requirement of valid GATE score is
(17) For Interdisciplinary Research Platform- Quantum Information and Computation (IDRP-QIC)
B.Tech., B.E. in Computer Science and
Engineering, Data Science and Artificial
and Communication Engineering, Materials
M.Sc. In Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics,
B. Tech. from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA
(18) For Intelligent VLSI Systems:
B. Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in
Electrical Engineering/ Electronics and
Instrumentation Engineering/ Computer
Science and Engineering
B. Tech. in Electrical Engineering/
Electronics and Communication
Engineering/ Instrumentation Engineering/
Computer Science and Engineering from
any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA of 8/10
D. Financial Assistance
Valid GATE score
The requirement of valid
GATE core is exempted
Valid GATE score in EE/EC/IN/CS
The requirement of valid GATE score is
M.Tech.  (Full-time  Regular  eligible  for  Assistantship/Fellowship)/  M.Tech.-Ph.D.  (Full-time
Regular with  Fellowship)  students  may  be  eligible  for  a  monthly  stipend  in  return  for  8
hours  of    work  per  week  of  Teaching  or  Research  Assistantships.  For  regular  dual  degree
students, financial assistantship/fellowship will be at par with regular Ph.D. students.
E. Reservation Policy
The  norms  of reservation for  different  categories shall  be adopted  as laid  down  by the
Ministry of Human  Resource  Development, Government of India.
F. Important Dates
Start date of filling  online  application  form
Last date of filling  online  application  form
Announcement of selected candidates  for the
admission  process  *
4 March 2024
20 April 2024
1 May 2024
*The  candidates  shortlisted  for  the  admission  for  different  M.Tech.    programme  under
admission  category  Full-time  Regular  eligible  for  A s s i s t a n t s h i p /Fellowship  w i l l   be
announced only on the COAP 2024 portal.
G. Whom to contact
In case of any query, the applicants  may contact  to the offices  of the department,  where you are
Bioscience  and  Bioengineering
Computer  Science  and Engineering
Metallurgical  and Materials  Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure  Engineering
IDRP, Robotics  and Mobility  Systems
IDRP-Quantum Information & Computation   0291-2801602
School of Artificial Intelligence
& Data Science