Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Research & Development
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur, INDIA
Phone: 0291-2801121, 1124, 1125 E-Mail:
Advertisement for the post of Director, DIA-CoE, IIT Jodhpur
Date:     24 / Oct  / 2025
DRDO has signed MoU with IIT Jodhpur for setting up DRDO Industry Academia Centre of
Excellence IIT Jodhpur (DIA-CoE IITJ) for directed research. The objective of the centre is to
collaborate with the academic researchers/ faculty, start-ups, industries and other institutes
in the country in facilitating and progressing advanced technology research.
DIA-CoE  IITJ  specifically  facilitates  and  undertakes  multidisciplinary  directed  basic  and
applied research in the following research verticals:
1.  Applications of Advanced Technologies for Desert Warfare (ATDW)
2.  Futuristic Omni Mobility Drones (OMD)
3.  AI for Information Warfare and War Gaming Technologies (AIWG)
The search committee is looking for a suitable person for the post of Director, DIA-CoE at IIT
Jodhpur. Director DIA-CoE IITJ is the administrative and executive head. Director, DIA-CoE
IITJ  will  be  appointed  on  a  full-time  basis  and  would  be  responsible  for  the  smooth
functioning of DIA-CoE IITJ.
Interested  persons  having  the  following  qualifications  can  email  their  detailed  CV  in  PDF
format to the undersigned along with a brief statement of why they feel that they are well
suited to this position. Please send a single PDF file. Attachments, if any, should be a part of
the  single  PDF  file.  Please  use  the  subject  line:  “Application  for  Director,  DIA-CoE,  IIT
Jodhpur”  in  your  email.   The  attached  PDF  file  should  be  named  as  <first  name>.<last
name>.pdf. Please provide your date of birth in the application.  Persons working in full-time
positions with government organizations may also submit a no-objection certificate from the
  Doctoral degree in Science or Master’s Degree in Engineering or Technology from a
recognized  University  or  Equivalent  with  25  years  of  experience  in  technology
domains of defence not limited to above mentioned research verticals.
  The candidate should have a wide-ranging experience and required track record for
carrying  out  research,  collaborative  projects,  setting  up  of  large  research  facilities,
strategic research planning and technology transfer.
  The candidate should have exposure to multi-mode projects across labs/ organisations
having Academia interaction  and  also having awareness in global developments in
relevant areas for overall exposure.
  The candidate should have demonstrated research experience in defence domain in
terms  of  research  and  technology  development  and  deployment  towards  useful
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Research & Development
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur, INDIA
Phone: 0291-2801121, 1124, 1125 E-Mail:
outcomes  to  defence.  Alternatively,  the  candidate  should  have  strong  record  of
publications  and  patents,  laboratory/course  development  and/or  other  recognized
relevant professional activities leading to defence or related technology development
in the country.
  The candidate should have exposure to both Academic and Industry oriented research
and  development  preferably  in  the  areas  of  defence  interests  having  experience  in
Industry collaboration towards realization of technology/systems.
Age: The age of the applicant should be below 62 years as on the closing date of receipt of
applications of this advertisement.
(i) For Retired Central / Sate Govt employee covered under OPS/ NPS
  Old Pension Scheme
(Last drawn salary – basic pension) in line with DoE OM no. F. No. 3-25/2020-E.IIIA dated 09
Dec 2020 as updated time to time
  New Pension Scheme
(Last basic pay- 30% of last basic pay) in line with DoE OM 03-25/2020-E.III(A)/Pt dt. 18 Oct
2023 as updated time to time
(ii) For Non- Govt. employee (Without any Govt Pension benefits)
Rs. 1,75,000 – 2,00,000/- based on experience
Additional  Incentives:  Accommodation,  medical  benefits  or  any  other  incentives  may  be
provided  by  IIT  Jodhpur  as  per  the  eligibility,  IIT  Jodhpur  norms  and  availability  of
References: Please provide contact details up to 3 references who may be contacted by search
Duration: Full time position wherein the initial appointment would be for a period of 3 years.
This  period  can  be  extended  by  the  competent  authority  for  additional  2  years  subject  to
performance review. The position may be discontinued before 3 years by either side by giving
a notice of 3 months without assigning reason.
Last date of receiving the application/CV is  07th  November 2025.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur