Energy and Environmental Catalysis Research Laboratory | Chemistry | IIT Jodhpur
Energy and Environmental Catalysis Research Laboratory
This laboratory focused on multidisciplinary research for the development of energy and environmental catalysis that includes chemists, materials scientists, and environmentalists working towards the improvement of human health and life quality. Dr. Rakesh K. Sharma's Research Group focuses on sustainable materials for catalysis. It includes a diverse group of chemists and material scientists specializing in catalysis, feed-stock chemistry, energy harvesting and storage, environmental remediation and fuels. The main goal is to understand fundamental chemical processes and also to develop highly efficient materials inspired by nature. The researchers develop simple, reproducible and scalable methods for sustainable science. The research undertaken in the group is intended to have far lasting implications to utilize and design materials for applications that are required by a booming technology minding the effect on the environment. The group nurture philosophy of collaboration expedites new discoveries and innovations. Researchers are actively engaged with, international universities, inter-institutional, numerous government agencies and industries to harvest the benefits of our research work for end-users.
Facilities Available in the Laboratory ( Click here for the list)
Student Name Details
PhD (R K Sharma)
Advanced Functional Nanomaterials for Energy and Environmental Applications
PhD (R K Sharma)
Metal Confined Nano-reactors for Catalytic Applications
PhD (R K Sharma)
2D Clays for Energy Storage Applications
PhD (R K Sharma)
Designing Supramolecular Organocatalysts for Long-Range Chiral Induction by Non-Covalent Approach
PhD (R K Sharma)
Advanced Functional Nanomaterials for Water and Air Remediation
Postdoctoral Fellow (R K Sharma)
Heterogeneous Catalysis for Automobile Applications
Pragati R Sharma
Women Scientist (PI of Project)
Chiral Calix Crowns for Asymmetric Phase Transfer Catalyst
MSc (R K Sharma)
Chiral-Calix-amides for asymmetric catalyst
Avleen Kaur Chawla
MSc (R K Sharma)
Asymmetric catalysis on polypeptide surface
MSc (R K Sharma)
Perovskite Nanomaterials  for Wastewater and Soil Remediation
Junior Project Assistant (R K Sharma)
Utilization of Hydrogen as Fuel in Cement Production
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 12 Mar 2026 - 03:42 PM