Faculty Positions | School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science | IIT Jodhpur
Rolling Advertisement for Faculty Recruitment
IIT Jodhpur invites online applications from persons with exceptional academic record and/or valuable research and industrial experience at the levels of Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Professor of Practice and Young Faculty Associates working in all areas of AI and AI applications who can contribute towards achieving goals of the school.
Rolling Advertisement for Faculty Hiring
(a) Assistant Professor Grade II Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout.
Applicants having no or less than 3 years Post-Ph.D. experience will be considered for a contractual appointment of duration less than or equal to 3 years which can be converted into regular position upon review of performance during or after contract period.
(b) Assistant Professor Grade I
Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout.
At least a minimum of 3 years teaching, research and/or industrial experience, from the date of defending the Ph.D. Thesis (experience while pursuing Ph.D. Program is not be included).
(c) Associate Professor
Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout.
At least a minimum of 6 years teaching, research and/or industrial experience, of which at least 3 years should be at the level of Assistant Professor in a reputed Institute or University or equivalent.
Ph.D. with first division in the preceding degree or equivalent in the appropriate discipline, with good academic record throughout.
At least a minimum of 10 years teaching, research and/or industrial experience, of which at least 4 years should be at the level of Associate Professor in IITs, IISc, IIMs, NITIE Mumbai and IISERs or at an equivalent level.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 28 Jan 2026 - 08:18 PM