Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
M.Tech. in Communication Systems
(previously M.Tech. in Intelligent Communication Systems)
Revised Curriculum Structure for AY 2025-26 Onwards
During  the  past  few  years,  there  has  been  an  exponential  growth  in  the  usage  of  internet.  The  fast
development  of  economy  and  society  requires  modern  and  high-performance  communications  systems
that can cater for massive deployment of Internet of Things, while still offering acceptable levels of energy
consumption,  equipment  cost  and  network  deployment  and  operation  cost.  It  needs  to  support  a  wide
variety of  applications and services  requiring increased spectral efficiency, higher data rates, low latency
and high reliability. Communication technologies need to meet the growing connectivity requirements for
new  use  cases  (e.g.  for  ultra-low  latency  or  high  reliability  cases)  and  new  applications  for  industry,
opening  new  revenue  streams  also  for  operators.  The  M.  Tech.  program  in  Communication  Systems
prepares  students  for  an  advanced  engineering  career  by  in-depth  understanding  of  modern
communication  systems  at  all  layers  and  their  associated  signal  processing  methods.  The  program
provides students with an opportunity to learn the specialization in depth by updating and renewing their
technical knowledge in a rapidly changing telecommunication industry.
Objective of the Program
Graduates  from  the  program  will  have  in-depth  knowledge  and  critical  awareness  of  theoretical  and
practical  solutions  to  problems  at  the  forefront  of  communications  and  the  processing  of  signals.  They
would be ready for careers in fields such as development, research, operations and management of next-
generation telecommunication networks and information processing systems.
  The  graduates  of  this  program  will  have  strong  fundamentals  in  modern  communications
technology and signal processing methods.
  Understanding of cutting-edge research on future generations of wireless communication.
  Analytical  and  experimental  skills
communication systems for various  applications like Internet-of-Things, smart health, Smart  City,
Intelligent Transportation Systems
to  design  and
  Ability  to  do  critical  and  creative  thinking,  and  to  conduct  independent  and  original  research  and
  Ability to apply existing skills and knowledge to identify and formulate new problems, produce new
ideas, approaches or actions
  Ability to teach and express ideas in both written and oral formats
•  Ability to statistically characterize and evaluate the performance of communication systems.
•  Ability to apply the different methods for signal detection and estimation to real world engineering
problems and advanced research
•  Develop understanding of cutting-edge research on future generations of wireless communication.
•  Analyze  multi-user  networks  and  understanding  of  techniques  like  opportunistic  communication,
multiuser diversity, superposition coding and successive interference cancellation
Implement  end-to-end  wireless  communication  systems  with  various  MIMO  technologies  like
maximal ratio combining, OFDM, interleaving/de-interleaving, and Alamouti codes
•  Ability to master a specific set of methods appropriate to their dissertation, with the depth needed
to produce methodologically rigorous research.
•  Carry out research work demonstrating scientific problem solving and generate IPR
Overall Structure (M. Tech. Degree Requirements for Communication Systems)
Cat.  Course Number, Course Title
C  EEL7XX0  Applied Linear
C  EEL7XX0  Digital
NG1  HSN7XX0  Non-Graded I
Cat.  Course Number, Course Title
C  EEL7XX0  Wireless
E  EEL7XX0  Elective
E  EEL7XX0  Elective
E  EEL7XX0  Elective
NG2 HSN7XX0  Non-Graded II
Applied Linear Algebra
Concepts  of  Linear
  Matrix  Computations
in Signal Processing &
  Random Processes
  Random  parameter
  Multiple  parameter
Digital Communications  Wireless
  Carrier  and  Symbol
Coding  and  design
  Error performance in
  Diversity Techniques
  Capacity  of  fading
multiple and random
  Multiuser diversity
  Ad-Hoc Networks
List of Program Electives
S. No.  Course Number  Course Title
Cellular Communication Networks
Data Communication and Networking
MIMO Wireless Communications
RF system design for Communications
Network Information Theory
Design and Analysis of Communication
Advanced Digital Signal Processing
Optical Communication Systems
Machine Learning for Communications
Curriculum of Core Courses
Applied Linear Algebra
Department:  Electrical Engineering
Offered for:   M. Tech. and Ph.D.
Core Course for Communication and Signal
The instructor will:
1.  introduce fundamental definitions and concepts of Linear Algebra
2.  introduce matrix computations required for signal processing and communication
At the end of the course, the students will be able to:
1. Analyze vector spaces, orthogonality, and linear transformations to establish
mathematical foundations for signal processing and communication
2. Apply matrix computations and factorizations to solve problems in signal
processing and communication.
Fundamental Concepts of Linear Algebra (12 Lectures)
Algebra of Matrices, Systems of Linear Equations, Vector Spaces & Subspaces, Linear
Dependence and Independence, Inner Product Spaces, Norms, orthogonality, Gram-
Schmidt process, Linear Transformations & Change of Basis
Eigenvalues, Eigenvectors, and Diagonalization (9 Lectures)
Eigenvalues & Eigenvectors, Diagonalization & Spectral Theorem, Jordan Canonical Form
– Generalized eigenvectors and applications, Singular Value Decomposition (SVD),
Pseudoinverse & Moore-Penrose Inverse
Matrix Theory & Factorization (12 Lectures)
Matrix Operations – Rank, inverse, determinant, trace, Special Matrices – Symmetric,
skew-symmetric, Hermitian, Toeplitz, circulant matrices, LU Decomposition, QR
Factorization, Cholesky Decomposition
Matrix Computations in Signal Processing & Communications (9 Lectures)
Fourier & Wavelet Transforms in Matrix Form, Fast Algorithms in Signal Processing,
Compressive Sensing & Sparse Signal Recovery, Signal Subspace Estimation and Array
Processing, Linear and Quadratic programming
1.  Strang, Gilbert. Linear Algebra and Its Applications 4th ed. 2012.
2.  Meyer, Carl D. Matrix analysis and applied linear algebra. Society for Industrial
and Applied Mathematics, 2023.
Strang, Gilbert., Linear Algebra, Spring 2010, MIT OpenCourseWare, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology: https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/18-06-linear-algebra-spring-2010/
Rao, Vittal., Advanced Matrix Theory and Linear Algebra for Engineers, NPTEL Course
ID 111108066: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111108066
Statistical Signal Analysis
M. Tech. and Ph.D.
Core Course for Communication and Signal
The instructor will:
introduce fundamental definitions and concepts of Probability, Random Variables and
2.  provide background to understand the fundamental aspects of parameter estimation and
The students will be able to:
1.  perform filtering, parameter estimation, and hypothesis testing concepts of signal detection
and estimation for deterministic and random signals
2.  apply the theoretical knowledge to applications in communication, machine learning,
optimization, and signal processing
Review of Probability Theory (8 Lectures)
Introduction to Probability Theory, Conditional Probability & Bayes’ Theorem, Independence, Conditional
independence, Markov property, Discrete Random Variables, Continuous Random Variables, Expectation,
Characteristic and Moment-Generating Functions, Joint Distributions of Multiple Random Variables,
Functions of Random Variables, Conditional Expectation, Law of Large Numbers and Central Limit
Stochastic Processes and Linear Filtering (14 Lectures)
Stochastic Processes, Classification and characterization, Stationarity & Ergodicity, Gaussian and Poisson
Processes, Markov Chains and Markov Processes, Spectral Representation of Stochastic Processes, Power
Spectral Density (PSD), Linear Systems with Random Inputs, White Noise & Colored Noise Models, Wiener
Filter, Least Squares Estimation and Linear Prediction, Kalman Filtering
Parameter Estimation (10 Lectures)
Parameter Estimation: Introduction to Statistical Estimation: Bias, Variance, MSE, Maximum Likelihood
Estimation (MLE), Cramér-Rao Bound (CRB) and Efficiency of Estimators, Bayesian Estimation: MMSE,
MAP, and Posterior Distributions
Hypothesis Testing and Detection (10 Lectures):
Likelihood Ratio Test (LRT), Neyman-Pearson Theorem, Bayesian Hypothesis Testing, Minimum
Probability of Error Criterion, Matched Filter, Energy Detector (6 Lectures)
Papoulis, Athanasios, and S. Unnikrishna Pillai. 2002. Probability, Random Variables, and Stochastic
Processes. 4th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Kay,S.M., (1998), Fundamentals of Statistical Signal Processing: Vol. 1 Estimation Theory, 1st Edition,
Kay,S.M., (1998), Fundamentals of Statistical Signal Processing: Vol. 2 Detection Theory, 1st Edition,
Chakraborty, Mrityunjay. Probability and Random Processes, NPTEL Course ID 117105085:
Sinha, Rohit, Signal Detection and Estimation Theory, NPTEL Course ID 117103018:
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech. and PhD
Prerequisite  Knowledge of Probability Theory and Fundaments of
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The instructor will:
1.  Provide  strong  theoretical  foundation  of  digital  communication  modulation  schemes  and
2.  Help  students  understand  the  fundamentals  of  communication  through  band  limited
channels and synchronization.
The students will be able to:
1.  Design receivers for optimum performance.
2.  Analyze communication systems for their bit error performance.
Signal Representation and Digital Modulation Schemes (8 Lectures)
Complex  baseband  representation  of  signals,  Gram-Schmidt  orthogonalization  procedure,
M-ary  orthogonal  signals,  bi-orthogonal  signals,  simplex  signal  waveforms,  Memoryless
modulation  schemes,  signaling  schemes  with  memory,  power  spectral  density  of  digitally
Receiver Design, Sufficient Statistics and Performance Analysis (14 Lectures)
Coherent and non-coherent demodulation: Matched  filter, Correlator demodulator,  square-
law,  and  envelope  detection;  Detector:  Optimum  rule  for  ML  and  MAP  detection
Performance:  Bit-error-rate,  symbol  error  rate  for  coherent  and  non-coherent  schemes,
Recurrent Neural Networks and their use for robust and adaptive receiver design
Carrier and Symbol Synchronization (4 Lectures)
carrier recovery and symbol synchronization in demodulation, carrier phase estimation,
symbol timing estimation
Introduction to Coding (12 Lectures)
Linear  block  codes,  properties  and  examples,  soft  decision  decoding,  hard  decision
decoding, convolutional codes, Viterbi decoding
Design Tradeoffs (4 Lectures)
Rate, bandwidth efficiency, power efficiency, modulation and coding tradeoffs
1.  Proakis, J. G. and Salehi, M., (2007), Digital Communications, 5th Edition, McGraw-Hill
2.  Madhow,  U.,  (2008),  Fundamentals  of  Digital  Communication,  1st  Edition,  Cambridge
3.  Barry,  J.  R.,  Lee,  E.  A.,  and  Messerschmitt,  D.  G.,  (2004),  Digital  Communications,  3rd
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Jagannatham, A. K.,  Principles  of Communication II, Department of Electrical Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/108104098/
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree (Comm. Engg.)
Prerequisite  Fundamentals of Communications
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The instructor will:
1. Provide students with an understanding of the concepts related to communication over wireless fading
2. Expose students to concepts and techniques for exploiting fading and application of these concepts in
multiuser communication systems context.
The students will be able to:
1. Interpret and apply core principles of deep fading, diversity strategies, and channel capacity in the
context of point-to-point wireless communication systems.
2.  Analyze  multi-user  networks  and  understanding  techniques  like  opportunistic  communication,
multiuser diversity, superposition coding and successive interference cancellation.
3. Analyze and design wireless ad-hoc networks with special emphasis on energy constrained networks
Wireless Channels [10 Lectures]:
Review of signal detection over AWGN channels and M-ary Modulation (5L)
Modelling  of  wireless  channels;  space,  time  and  frequency  channel  coherence;  input/output  channel
models for single and multi-antenna systems - SIMO, MISO, and MIMO (5L)
Diversity Techniques [14 Lectures]:
Digital modulation and its performance in fading (4L)
Deep fade and diversity (3L)
Realizing  diversity:  time  diversity  (1L),  frequency  diversity  (3L),  antenna  diversity  –  SIMO,  MISO,  and
Wireless Channel Capacity [11 Lectures]:
Capacity of the Gaussian channels –SISO, SIMO, MISO and MIMO (4L)
Outage limited and ergodic capacity of fading channels (4L)
Water filling algorithm and opportunistic communication (3L)
Multiuser system design [7 Lectures]:
Multiple access techniques (2L)
Multiuser channel capacity and multiuser diversity (5L)
1.  Tse,  D.  and  Viswanath,  P.,  (2005),  Fundamentals  of  wireless  communication,  Cambridge  University
2. Goldsmith, A., (2005), Wireless Communications, Cambridge University Press.
3. Simon, M. K. and Alouini, M. S., (2004),  Digital communication over fading channels, John Wiley and
1.  Zheng,  L.,  Principles  of  Wireless  Communications,  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  Electrical  Engineering  &
Computer  Science,  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology,  https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-
Preparatory Course Material
1. Jagannatham, A. K.,  Principles of Communication II, NPTEL Course Material, Department  of Electrical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/108104098/
2.  Zheng,  L.  and  Gallager,  R.,  Principles  of  Digital  Communications  I,  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  Electrical