M.Tech.in Advanced Manufacturing and Design | Office of Academics Affairs | IIT Jodhpur
M.Tech.in Advanced Manufacturing and Design
Introduction M. Tech program in Advanced Manufacturing and Design at IIT Jodhpur aims at strong interdisciplinary focus with an objective to produce manpower who can play a key role in improving quality and efficiency of the design process and manufacturing systems. The program aims to impart computational and experimental skills in the domain of mechanical design, manufacturing processes and systems with focus on product development. The program will have courses in the areas of Solid Mechanics, Dynamics and Control, Product Design and Manufacturing with focus on recent industrial and research trends such as Smart Manufacturing and Industry 4.0. The program will also include topics such as Robotics, Mechatronics Systems Design, Additive Manufacturing etc. to impart skills necessary for appreciating these modern trends. The program plans to establish synergy with Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Engineering by incorporating electives in the areas of Cyber Physical Systems, Sensors and IoT and Artificial Intelligence. The role of new and smart materials in product design and manufacturing will be accomplished through electives from Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering. The program will have strong emphasis on the thesis work involving interdisciplinary research activity in the emerging areas of design and manufacturing. Objective of the Program To develop professionals in the domain of mechanical design and manufacturing by imparting analytical and computational skills that enables individual to handle problems in thrust areas such as robotics, mechatronic systems design, additive manufacturing and smart manufacturing. Expected Graduate Attributes (M.Tech.) 1. Ability to undertake academic and industrial research in the areas Advanced Manufacturing and Design using analytical and computational tools 2. Understanding about recent thrust areas in the domain such as robotics, mechatronic systems design, additive manufacturing, smart manufacturing etc. 3. Ability to appreciate the need of multidisciplinary approach in solving problems in the domain 4. Ability to handle analytical and experimental tools in the areas related to the program 5. Ability to carry out critical, creative and innovative thinking 6. Ability to express ideas in the written and oral formats 7. Development of appreciation and commitment to professional ethics Learning Outcome 1. Understanding of the fundamentals related to mechanical design, CAD and design optimization 2. Knowledge of engineering materials, manufacturing processes and systems in the context of product development 3. Developing awareness about recent industrial trends such as smart manufacturing, autonomous Systems, Industry 4.0 through courses such as Computer Aided Manufacturing and Industrial Robotics 4. Knowledge of interdisciplinary topics such as machine learning, artificial intelligence, autonomous systems, digital image and signal processing etc. 5. Demonstrate the skills in the above areas by using or developing computational and analytical tools 6. Demonstrate advanced skills to communicate scientific ideas and /or application systems.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM