Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS) for Working Professionals | Executive Programs | IIT Jodhpur
Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS) for Working Professionals
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS) for the semester
commencing from July 2024. The program includes state-of-the-art analog and digital VLSI circuits and
systems, mixed signal circuits, issues with system integration for performance considerations, covering
wide aspects of embedded and computing systems, and emerging applications.
The courses in this program provide flexibility to working professionals and cover a wide range of
fundamentals, design skills, hands-on through synchronous/asynchronous/campus-immersion mode, and
current industry trends, allowing professionals to learn without a career break with classes conducted
on weekends/weekdays evenings. The education delivery methodology combines online classroom and
experiential learning. The total duration of the program is spread over 2 years (4 regular semesters and
2 summer semesters).
Eligibility Criteria and Admission Process
B.Tech./B.E. (ECE/EE/CSE/EI/MSc. Physics/MSc. Electronics or equivalent) with at least 60% marks. At
least 2 years of professional work experience with sufficient hands-on experience.
Candidates must fill the designated online application at the provided link. Prior research exposure
and/or industry experience in areas related to VLSI will be considered a plus. The department reserves
the right to set any cut-off criteria for shortlisting the candidates. Mere fulfillment of the
eligibility criteria does not guarantee that the candidate will be shortlisted.
A.Y. 2024-25 (Semester I)
A.Y. 2025-26 (Semester II)
A.Y. 2025-26 (Semester III)
A.Y. 2026-27 (Semester IV)
Note: Fees once paid will not be refunded, if the candidate fails to join the program.
Key Features of the Program
Classes will be conducted in the evening (e.g., from 5 PM to 7 PM IST) or on weekends at a convenient
time. There will be two to three lectures/labs every evening, each of duration 50 to 80 minutes. Typical
contact time for 1 credit: 14 lectures of 50 minutes each.
Online Instruction and Assessment
Lectures will be webcast online and students will attend in a synchronous audio-visual mode. Students can
raise questions during the lecture. Recorded lectures and teaching material will be made available after
the sessions. Course management and offline discussions will be enabled via widely-used tools such as
Google Classroom. Grading will be based on examinations, online quizzes, theoretical assignments, etc.
Institute policy will be followed for the examinations. Continuous evaluation (in the form of 2 minor
examinations) will be conducted ONLINE, however, the major examinations would be held OFFLINE.
Terms and Conditions for Award of PG Degree
The minimum credit requirements are 62 as per PG regulations of the institute. For details, please refer
to the distribution of different certificate programs into different semesters. Kindly refer to the
Appendix provided at the end of this advertisement for the sample degree template.
Instructors are IITJ faculty members and industry experts.
Salient Features of the Program
Candidates have the option of registering for specific certificates as per their interest and
convenience. The certificates can be stacked for the award of M.Tech. degree subject to completing
the 62 credit requirement in total.
Candidates completing a group of certificates but not willing to complete the M.Tech. course project
can be awarded a diploma in Intelligent VLSI systems.
All executive degree programs require a mandatory in-person visit of a candidate for 10 days during
the semester as per approved academic regulations.
Candidates willing to finish earlier would be given the option of accelerated campus immersion
(involving registration for more than the usual credits in a semester).
For the Master’s project, it is highly encouraged to include one supervisor from the candidate’s
organization thereby providing him/her an opportunity to work in detail on a problem
statement/research area aligned with his/her work domain.
There will be mandatory 1 contact weeks in a semester for 10 days. Students need to be present
during the contact weeks and attend lectures and discussion sessions with instructors, and
participate in offline evaluations. Institute may provide hostel accommodation as per institute
The major examinations will take place in a physical mode (offline mode), necessitating students'
physical presence for participation in the exams.
June 4, 2024: Commencement of online application process.
July 7, 2024: Last date for submitting online applications
July 9, 2024: Announcement of the shortlisted candidates
July 10, 2024: Announcement of results and confirmed list of students sent to
the Office of CEP by the Program Directors
July 11, 2024 - July 12, 2024: Offer Letters to be sent by CEP Office, IIT
Deadline for programme fee payment: 18th July, 2024
IITJ Orientation: 19th July, 2024
All registration process of students to be completed in IITJ ERP Portal: 22nd
Commencement of academic activities at IITJ: 22nd July, 2024
Class Commencement Date: 25th July, 2024
Applicants are required to pay the processing fee of Rs. 500 online while submitting the application
form. The application fees are non-refundable.
Cancellation of Admission
The Institute reserves the right to cancel, at any stage, the admission of a candidate admitted to a programme and is later found that he/she is not entitled, being unqualified or ineligible in accordance with the Regulations in vogue, or suspension/termination of programme. In the case of cancellation/withdrawal of admission after registration from programme, refund of fee will not be permissible.
In case of any query with respect to the online application, candidates may contact the office of the
Department of Electrical Engineering at the following phone number: 0291-2801352 or email address:
Link for application: https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=61
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 25 Apr 2025 - 10:26 AM