Materials and Future Technologies
and Future Technologies
Solar Energy Conversion
for Solar Energy Conversion
Solar Energy Conversion
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur organizes an interdisciplinary,
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
course that provides a treatment of the conversion and conservation
short-course that provides a treatment of the conversion and conservation
of solar energy using advanced materials. The course is designed for one
of solar energy using advanced materials. The course is designed for on
credit and it will be divided into three themes:
credit and it will be divided into three themes:
materials and characterization techniques.
Introduction to solar materials and characterization techniques.
Different assemblies of solar cells.
  Fabrication of new generation solar cells.
Fabrication of new generation solar cells.
  you  are  a  graduate  student  or  an  engineer
you  are  a  graduate  student  or  an  engineer
you  are  a  graduate  student  or  an  engineer
understanding  of  the  fundamental  elements  and  concepts
understanding  of  the  fundamental  elements
interested in gaining
you are a researcher/ a research scientist / a young faculty interested in gaining
practical, hands-on training on solar cell preparation and characterizatio
in  gaining  an
and  concepts  of  solar  energy
on training on solar cell preparation and characterization.
  you are a researcher/ a research
Prof.  Mukundan  Thelakkat
Professor  for  Applied  Functional  Polymers  at
Thelakkat  is  an  eminent  Professor  for  Applied  Functional  Polymers  at
field  of  organic
field  of  organic
Bayreuth,  Germany.  He  has  been  working  continuously
field  of  organic
Bayreuth,  Germany.  He  has  been  working  continuously
Bayreuth,  Germany.  He  has  been  working  continuously
semiconductors and devices for the last 25 years.
Prof. Thelakkat has profound knowledge
and experience on OLEDs, solar cells, and batteries, with focus on energy conversion and
and experience on OLEDs, solar cells, and batteries, with focus on energy conversion and
and experience on OLEDs, solar cells, and batteries, with focus on energy conversion and
He is a member of director board of Indian-Bavarian Centre in Germany
Bavarian Centre in Germany
storage devices. He is a
Research Network, “Solar
is a Coordinator for the Multimillion Euro project of Bavarian Research Network, “Solar
and is a Coordinator for the Multim
research  group,  Applied  Functional  Polymers,  is
technologies Go  Hybrid”.  At  present,  his
tailored  multifunctional  self-assembling  copolymers,  block
assembling  copolymers,  block
ting  dyes,  photoswitchable
copolymers,  bridged  donor
copolymers,  bridged  donor-acceptor  systems,  light  harvesting  dyes,
battery materials and bioelectronics.
chromophore systems, conjugated polyelectrolytes, battery materials and bioelectronics.
ies Go  Hybrid”.  At  present,  his  research  group,  Applied  Functional  Po
devices for the last 25 years. Prof. Thelakkat has pro
Prof. G.U. Kulkarni (Director
Director,Centre for Nano and Soft Matter, Bangalore)
Dr. Ritu Gupta (Assistant Professor, IIT Jodhpur)
Dr. Ritu Gupta (Assistant Professor, IIT Jodhpur)
8 to 12 January 2018
Seminar Hall, Chemistry Department
IIT Jodhpur, NH-65, Karwar
  Number  of  participants  for  the  course
will be limited to 40.
  Course  fees  will  be  charged  after
registration  is  confirmed.  It  includes
course material and tutorials only.
  Accommodation  and  food  will  be
arranged  at  IITJ  Guest  House/Hostel
on  first  come  first  serve  basis  upon
  Register before : 20, Dec 2017.
* The course fee will be made half for
Dr. Ritu Gupta
Dr. Ritu Gupta
For registration, log on:
For registration, log on: