Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Dated: 20th November 2025
Committee for assessment of nominations received for the REYA Awards
In exercise of powers vested upon him vide Statute 12 (2)  (xiv) of the Institute; the Competent Authority
has constituted the following Committee for assessment of nominations received for the Recognition of
Excellence in Young Alumni  (REYA) Awards given as under:
1. Director or his Nominee
2.  Sh. Gaurav Agarwal, IAS, District Collector & Magistrate, Jodhpur, and  Member
Alumnus of IIT Kanpur
3.  Sh. Anil Kumar, Director, FDDI Jodhpur
Members from IIT J odhpur
4.  Dean of Resources and Alumni (DORA)
5.  Dr. Mrityunjay R. Doddamani, Associate Professor, Deptt. of ME
6.  Dr. Deepak K. Saxena, Associate Professor, SME
7.  Dr. Aashish Mathur, Associate Professor, Deptt. of EE
8.  Dr. Alok Ranjan, Assistant Professor, SoLA
9.  Associate Dean, Alumni Relations (ADAR)
Terms of Reference:
The Committee shall assess the nominations received for the Recognition of Excellence in Young Alumni
(REYA) Awards on the basis of the following parameters:
1. Demonstrated and sustained excellence in their respective fields.
2. Recognitions received at a community, national, or international level.
3. The difficulty of problems solved and the magnitude of impact created.
4. Leadership demonstrated in their field of expertise.
The  Office  of  DORA  will  scrutinize  all  nominations  for  basic  eligibility  and  forward  the  shortlisted
nominations to the Committee for consideration. Members of the Committee may attend the meetings
either in person or via video conferencing. The Committee holds the discretion to  recommend  more
than  one  alumnus  under  a  single  category  and  withhold  an  award  in  a  given category in any year.
The final list of selected alumni will be submitted to the Director for  approval.  In case  the  Committee
is  unable  to  converge  on  a  single  awardee  under  a  category,  the  Director  shall  determine  the
awardee. Therefore, the decision of the Director shall remain final and binding.
Frequency of meeting: As and when required.
Tenure: Up to 31st August 2026
The Hindi version will follow.
Contd. 2 ...
1. Chairperson and all Members of the Committee
Copy to - for kind information
2. Deputy Director
3. Advisor to the Director
4. All Deans/ Associate Deans/Professor-in-charge(s)/Head of the Deptts/Centres/Schools/Division
5. All Faculty Members and Staff Members
6. Webmaster to upload on the Intranet of the Institute's Website