Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Dual degree M.Tech. (CSE) + PhD
offered by the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs
in Computer Science and Engineering
Traditionally Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) teaching were focusing on two major areas,
i.e., theories and systems (database, computer hardware, and operating systems). With the advent of
the era of Cloud Computing, Edge Computing, AI and Big Data, the discipline is being transformed
by incorporation of new emerging technologies. It is becoming an instrumental tool in solving major
problems faced by modern society such as energy, natural disasters, pollution, and water. Through
this newly revamped M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs in CSE, IIT Jodhpur is making
a conscious effort to divulge from the traditional path and planning to reposition itself to become a
leading institute in this new genre of Computer Science education.
This M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual degree programs in CSE will offer students with deep
knowledge of core and applied computer science. Through this programme, a student will learn niche
subject areas which are of paramount importance in the modern big data era, such as Computer
Systems and Security. This programme is aiming at imparting the necessary breadth and depth to the
students for pursuing careers in academics as well as in industry. This programme is aiming at
extending undergraduate computing skills with up-to-date and in-depth expertise in specialized areas
of Computer Systems and Security.
Expected Graduate Attributes:
After completing this programme, a student will be able to develop an ability to:
1.  Understand fundamental concepts and hands-on knowledge of emerging fields in Computer
2.  Conceive, Design and Develop state-of-the-art scalable parallel and distributed systems
3.  Solve Big data problems through the knowledge of advanced data structures, distributed
algorithmic design, analysis, and applications.
4.  Design and develop network protocols for Wireless, Sensor, Mobile, and Vehicular networks.
5.  Ideate, Implement and Integrate cryptographic, fault tolerant algorithms for large scale
6.  Understand state-of-the-art hardware platforms for running compute intensive distributed
7.  Ability to understand and apply evolving ethics and privacy laws across various domains and
8.  Plan and manage technical projects
1.  Understand the fundamentals of algorithmic complexity, advanced computer architecture,
advanced network, and security protocols.
2.  Apply appropriate design principles, framework and protocols to develop dependable
3.  Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of cutting edge simulation, synthesizing, programming
4.  Ability to design and develop system architecture for mobile, cloud, fog, and edge
5.  Demonstrate hands-on knowledge of virtualization, data center design and management, and
software defined networking.
6.  Skills to comprehend and communicate effectively.
7.  Apply appropriate project and business management principles and tools for real-world
Algorithms for Big Data
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. 1st Year, Ph.D. 1st Year
L-T-P [C]  2–0–0 [2]
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce some algorithmic techniques developed for handling large amounts of data.
2.  Emphasize on both theoretical as well as practical aspects of such algorithms.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Analyze existing algorithms as well as design novel algorithms pertaining to big data.
Sketching and Streaming: Extremely small-space data structures (4 lectures)
Numerical  linear  algebra:  Algorithms  for  big  matrices,  Regression,  Low-rank  approximation,
Matrix completion (8 lectures)
Compressed Sensing: Sparse signals, Linear measurements, Signal recovery (8 lectures)
External  memory  and  cache-obliviousness:  Minimizing  I/O  for  large  datasets,  Algorithms  and
data structures such as B-trees, Buffer trees, Multiway mergesort (8 lectures)
Markovsky  I,  (2014),  Low  Rank  Approximation:  Algorithms,  Implementation,  Applications,
Eldar  Y  C.,  Kutyniok  G.  (2012),  Compressed  Sensing:  Theory  and  Applications,  Cambridge
Self Learning Material
1.   Department of Computer Science, Harvard University, Algorithms for Big Data
Data structures and practices
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. (CSE) 1st Year
Prerequisite  Computer Programming
L-T-P [C]  0–0–2 [1]
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain  various  data  structures  and  provide  details  to  implement  and  use  them  in
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Write, debug and rectify the programs using different data structures
2. Expertise in transforming coding skills into algorithm design and implementation
Exercises based on
Abstract  Data  Types:  Arrays,  link-list/list,  hash  tables,  dictionaries,  structures,  stack,  queues
Data  Structures:  Heap,  Sets,  Sparse  matrix,  Binary  Search  Tree,  B-Tree/  B+  Tree,  Graph    (4
Algorithm  implementation:  Quick  or  Merge  sort,  Breadth  or  Depth  first  search  or  Dijkstra’s
Shortest Path First algorithm, Dynamic programing (6 labs)
1.Weiss, M. A. (2007), Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Addison-Wesley.
2.  Lipschutz, S. (2017), Data Structures with C, McGraw Hill Education.
3.Cormen, T. H., Leiserson, C. E., Rivest, R. L. and Stein, C., (2009), Introduction to
Algorithms, MIT Press
Online Course Material
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT
Software and Data Engineering
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech.
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Discuss techniques to manage a large amount of data
2.  Provide mechanisms to design and develop data-intensive computing systems
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design complex end-to-end data pipeline for data processing
2.  Critically identify and use the tools for data handling and management
3.  Use modern software technologies to design and develop data analytical systems
CSL7XX0 Cloud Computing and Virtualization 1-0-0 [1]
Basics of complex software design: Concept of modular software, microservices,
communication, 4+1 architectural views and patterns (5 lectures)
Cloud Computing: Architecture of cluster computing, design of data centers, open data center
platforms, fault-tolerant system design (5 lectures)
Virtualization: Type-1 and Type-2 virtualization, virtual machine, containers, dockers (4
CSL7XX0 Data Management 1-0-0 [1]
Data Management: Structured data, relational database management, unstructured data,
semi-structured data,  Nosql database management (mongodb), column database, graph
database, XML, JSON, HDFS, Handling drift in data, sensor data reliability at software and
algorithmic level, sensor data analysis techniques (14 lectures)
CSL7XX0 Data Intensive Processing Systems 1-0-0 [1]
Data Intensive Processing Systems: Architecture of large scale data processing systems,
Hadoop, Apache Spark, Storm, parallel data processing concepts such as map-reduce, directed
acyclic graph, resilient distributed datasets, dynamic resource allocation, partial & shared
computation, storage architecture  (14 lectures)
1.  Bass L., Clements P., Kazman R., (2012), Software Architecture in Practice, 3rd edition,
2.  Martin K., (2017), Designing Data-Intensive Applications: The Big Ideas Behind Reliable,
Scalable, and Maintainable Systems, 1st Edition, O'Reilly Media
Self Learning Material
1.    Tylor,R.N.,  Medvidovic,N.  and  Dashofy,E.M.,  (2014),  Software  Architecture  Foundation:
Theory and Practice, Wiley
Preparatory Course Material
1. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering
2. International Conference on Data Engineering
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. 2nd Year
Prerequisite  Computer Organization
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
1.  Provide background to understand various components of a modern computer system,
its interconnections, and performance issue
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Explain the working principles of various components of modern computer systems
2.   Compare between systems using benchmark data
3.   Write, execute and debug parallel programs on GPU
CSL7XX0 Multi System Architecture 1-0-0 [1]
Introduction: Defining Computer Architecture, Flynn’s Classification of Computers, Metrics for
Performance Measurement. (4 lectures)
Memory  Hierarchy:  Introduction,  Advanced  Optimizations  of  Cache  Performance,  Memory
Technology and Optimizations, Virtual Memory and Virtual Machines, The Design of Memory
Hierarchies, Introduction to Pin Instrumentation and Cache grind, Case Study: Intel Core i7
CSL7XX0 Multicore Processing 1-0-0 [1]
Instruction-Level Parallelism: Instruction-level Parallelism: Concepts and
Challenges, Basic Compiler Techniques for Exposing ILP, Reducing Branch Costs with
Advanced Branch Prediction, Dynamic Scheduling, Superscalar, Limitations of ILP, Case
Study: Dynamic Scheduling in Intel Core i7. (9 lectures)
Multicore  Processor:  Introduction,  CPU  Interconnections,  Network  on  Chip  (NoC),  Routing
Protocols, Quality of Service on NoC. (5 lectures)
CSL7XX0 Fundamentals of Parallel Programming  1-0-0 [1]
Data Level Parallelism: Introduction, Vector Architecture, SIMD Instruction Set Extensions for
Multimedia,  Graphics  Processing  Units,  GPU  Memory  Hierarchy,  Detecting  and  Enhancing
Loop- Level Parallelism, CUDA Programming, Case Study: Nvidia Maxwell. (14 lectures)
1.  1.  Hennessy,J.L.  and  Patterson,D.A.,  (2012),  Computer  Architecture:  A  Quantitative
Approach, 5th Edition, Morgan Kauffmann Publishers
2. 2. Shen,J.P. and Lipasti,M.H., (2005), Modern Processor Design: Fundamentals of Superscalar
Processors, McGraw-Hill Publishers
1.  1.  CUDA: https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-zone
3.  2.  OpenMP: https://www.openmp.org/
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. 1st Year, Ph.D. 1st Year
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
1.  Provide motivation and understanding of the need and importance of Machine Learning
in today’s world
2.  Provide details about various algorithms in Machine Learning
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Develop  a  sense  of  Machine  Learning  in  the  modern  context,  and  independently  work
on problems relating to Machine Learning
2.  Design  and  program  efficient  algorithms  related  to  Machine  Learning,  train  models,
conduct experiments, and deliver ML-based applications
CSL7XX1: Introduction to Machine Learning: Supervised Learning 1-0-0[1]
Introduction:  Motivation,  Different  types  of  learning,  Linear  regression,  Logistic  regression  (2
Gradient  Descent:  Introduction,  Stochastic  Gradient  Descent,  Subgradients,  Stochastic
Gradient Descent for risk minimization (2 lectures)
Support  Vector  Machines:  Hard  SVM,  Soft  SVM,  Optimality  conditions,  Duality,  Kernel  trick,
Implementing Soft SVM with Kernels (4 lectures)
Decision Trees: Decision Tree algorithms, Random forests (2 lectures)
Neural  Networks:  Feedforward  neural  networks,  Expressive  power  of  neural  networks,  SGD
and Backpropagation (3 lectures)
Model selection and validation: Validation for model selection, k-fold cross-validation, Training-
Validation-Testing split, Regularized loss minimization (1 lectures)
CSL7XX2:  Introduction  to  Machine  Learning:  Unsupervised  Learning  and  Generative
Nearest Neighbour: k-nearest neighbour, Curse of dimensionality (1 lecture)
Clustering:  Linkage-based  clustering  algorithms,  k-means  algorithm,  Spectral  clustering  (3
Dimensionality  reduction:  Principal  Component  Analysis,  Random  projections,  Compressed
sensing (2 lectures)
Generative  Models:  Maximum  likelihood  estimator,  Naive  Bayes,  Linear  Discriminant  Analysis,
Latent variables and Expectation-maximization algorithm, Bayesian learning (5 lectures)
Feature Selection and Generation: Feature selection, Feature transformations, Feature learning
CSL7XX3:  Introduction  to  Machine  Learning:  Computational  Learning  Theory  and
Deep Learning 1-0-0[1]
Statistical Learning Framework: PAC learning, Agnostic PAC learning, Bias-complexity tradeoff,
No free lunch theorem, VC dimension, Structural risk minimization, Adaboost (7 lectures)
Foundations of Deep Learning: DNN, CNN, RNN, Autoencoders (7 lectures)
1.  Shalev-Shwartz,S.,  Ben-David,S.,  (2014),  Understanding  Machine  Learning:  From
Theory to Algorithms, Cambridge University Press
1. Mitchell Tom (1997). Machine Learning, Tata McGraw-Hill
Self Learning Material
1.   Department of Computer Science, Stanford University,
Security and Its Application
Computer Science and Engineering
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
1.    Provide  the  fundamental  principles  of  access  control  models  and  techniques,  authentication
and secure system design
2.  Introduce a strong understanding of different cryptographic protocols and techniques and be
able to use them
3.   Provide methods for authentication, access control, intrusion detection and prevention
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Understand cryptography and network security concepts and application
2.   Identify and investigate network security threat
3.   Analyze and design network security protocols
CSL7xx1 Introduction to Cryptography 1-0-0 [1]
Shannon’s  Approach  to  Cryptography: Measures  of  security,  Perfect  secrecy,  Definition  of
entropy, One-time pad (3 lectures)
Symmetric Key Cryptography: The notion of a symmetric key cryptography, The Data Encryption
Standard  (DES)  and  differential  cryptanalysis,  The  Advanced  Encryption  Standard  (AES)  (4
Cryptographic  Hash  Functions: Definition  of  hash  functions  and  properties,  Unkeyed  hash
functions,  Keyed  hash  functions,  Message  Authentication  Codes  (MAC),  The  Random  Oracle
Model (ROM) (4 lectures)
Authentication: Definition  of  authentication,  A  simple  authentication  protocol  and  possible
attacks, Strong password protocols, BM Encrypted Key Exchange (EKE), Key Distribution Centers
(KDC), Certification authorities and certificate revocation, KDC based authentication protocols (3
CSL7xx2 Network Security  1-0-0 [1]
Public  Key  Cryptosystems: Fundamentals  of  Public-key  Cryptography,  Background  on  number
theory,  The  RSA  public  key  cryptosystem,  The  ElGamal  public  key  cryptosystem  and  discrete
logs Digital  Signatures: An  RSA  based  signature  scheme,  The  ElGamal  based  signature
scheme,The Schnorr signature scheme, The Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) (6 lectures)
Key  Distribution  and  Key  Agreement  Protocols: Key  Predistribution:  Diffie-Hellman  key
Exchange, The MTI key Exchange (4 lectures)
Network Security: TCP/IP threats, The IPSEC protocol, The SSL and TLS protocols, Firewalls and
Virtual  Private  Networks  (VPNs),  Electronic  mail  security,  Worms,  DDoS  attacks,  BGB  and
security considerations (4 lectures)
CSL7xx3 Cyber-physical security and Blockchain 1-0-0 [1]
(fractal  3) Cyber-physical  security:  IoT  security,  sensor  actuator  network  security  (4
to  Blockchain,  Blockchain  Architecture  and  Design,
lectures) Block  Chain: Introduction
Blockchains, Components of blockchain (10 lectures)
Programming exercises using Exata and  AVISPA Tools
1.Stallings, W. (2017). Cryptography and network security, 7/E. Pearson Education India
2.  Douglas  R.  Stinson,  Maura  B.  Paterson  (2018).  Cryptography:  theory  and  practice.  4/E
Chapman and Hall/CRC
1. Mao, W. (2004). Modern cryptography: theory and practice. Pearson Education India
2.   Pfleeger, C. P., & Pfleeger, S. L. (2018). Security in computing. 5/E,  Prentice Hall
Professional Technical Reference
3.   Goldreich, O. (2009). Foundations of cryptography: volume 2, basic applications. Cambridge
4.   Forouzan, B. A. (2015). Cryptography & network security. 3/E, McGraw-Hill, Inc.
Self Learning Material
1.   Network and Computer Security - MIT OpenCourseWare
2.   Cryptography I,  Coursera, Stanford University, https://www.coursera.org/learn/crypto