Transition Metal and Organometalics Research Laboratory | Chemistry | IIT Jodhpur
Transition Metal and Organometalics Research Laboratory
The organometallic chemistry laboratory focuses on developing novel transition metal and main-group element based organometallic complexes, study and characterize their properties, understanding unique behavior and potential applications in material chemistry and sustainable homogeneous catalysis. Dr. Ramesh Metre’s Research Group is interested to develop and study Main-group organometallic complexes, with focus on applications into materials chemistry. In an effort to gain better understanding of structure and properties of the Main-group Organometallic Complexes, design involving intramolecular coordination approach will be probed. The new complexes with their unique structures will be explored as a potential candidate for Single source precursors to Energy materials. The group also focuses on use of Photoactive and Electroactive ligands to construct the main-group organometallic molecular assemblies for the applications in area of sensors and molecular electronics. The Chakraborty Research group is committed to develop and study Organometallic Catalysis, which shape and guide the processes of the Industry. In an effort to gain better understanding of the transition metal complexes, design of new pincer ligand based organometallic complexes, study their reactivity towards inert C-H, N-H, H-H bonds and exploration on activation modes of small molecules like N2, H2, CO2 and CO etc with the pincer complexes will be probed. The group also focuses on applications of organometallics in homogeneous catalysis using renewable resources targeting catalytically challenging sustainable transformations via (transfer) hydrogenation, dehydrogenation, hydrosilylation, hydroamination etc including in-depth kinetic and mechanistic investigation.
Facilities Available in the Laboratory ( Click here for the list)
Laboratory Users: Student Name Details Research Topic Abhishek Mishra PhD(R. K. Metre) (August, 2017-Present)  Sn-S containing Organotin assemblies for applications in Molecular Electronics Vivek Sharma PhD(R. K. Metre) (August, 2018-Present)  Main group Organometallic complexes of Redox active ligands and Applications Nisha Kamboj PhD(R. K. Metre) (Jan, 2019-Present)  Main group Organometallic complexes of Electro active and Photo-active ligands and Applications Sunita PhD(R. K. Metre) (July, 2019-Present)  Main group Organometallic complexes of Electro active and Photo-active ligands and Applications  Vaishnavi PhD(Subrata Chakraborty) (July, 2019-Present) CO2 activation and catalytic utilization Tushar Singh PhD(Subrata Chakraborty) (July, 2019-Present) Transition metal catalyzed organic transformations  Praveen Kumar  MSc(R. K. Metre) (July, 2019-Present) Schiff base complexes: Synthesis Structure and Supramolecular interactions  Simran Chaudhary MSc(R. K. Metre) (July, 2019-Present) Organotin Carboxylates: Synthesis Structure and Supramolecular interactions Pallavi Singh MSc(R. K. Metre) (July, 2019-Present) Organotin Carboxylates: Synthesis Structure and Supramolecular interactions Meignanamoorthi G. Project Assistant(R. K. Metre) (Mar, 2018-Present) Single Source Precursors for Thermoelectric Materials based on Main group Organometallic Complexes
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 12 Mar 2026 - 03:42 PM