INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Index of Tender documents
Tender Notice with Performa for Earnest Money Deposit Declaration
Terms & condition including IITJ/CPWD Form 7/8
6 - 6
Proforma of schedules A, B, C, D, E & F
Bank Guarantee Bond
Special Condition of contract                                                                                          34 -38
Scope of work                                                                                                                      43-43
Schedule of Quantities
Price Bid                                                                                                                                50-50
This Tender document contains pages One to Fifty only.
NIT Amounting to Rs.82,79,319.00/- (Rupees Eighty two lacs seventy nine thousand three hundred and nineteen
NOTICE INVITING E-TENDERS
Superintending  Engineer,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Jodhpur  invites  online  Percentage  Rate  Tender  from
Firms/ Contractors for the following work:
1. NIT No
2. Name of Work
3. Sub Head
4. Estimated cost
5. Earnest Money
Construction of DRDO Lab Facility at IIT Jodhpur
Composite Work ( Civil and Electrical )
6. Period of completion  :
7. Last time & date of submission of bid:   13/03/2026 up to 5:00 pm (on line)
forms  and  other  details  can  be  obtained
the  website  www.iitj.ac.in  or
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app/ free of cost. For more clarification you may visit on above website.
Copy to: -
Executive Engineer (Civil)
Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil-II)
Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical)
Junior Engineer (Civil-III)
Junior Engineer (Electrical)
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR BIDDERS FOR e-TENDERING (Tender Notice)
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur invites online Percentage Rate Tender on two bid systems through CPP
Portal from Firms/ Contractors for the following work:
Name of Work
Construction  of  DRDO
Sub Head: - Composite
Work ( Civil and Electrical )
Last date and time of submission of financial & Technical bid  : -    13/03/2026 upto 5:00 pm (on line)
Date and time of opening of Online Technical bid
Price/Financial bids of eligible bidders as per NIT shall be opened at a later date after scrutiny of Technical
:-     16/03/2026 at 9:00 am
1.  The successful bidders shall be required to submit a performance guarantee of 5% of the tendered amount
in the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of issue of
letter of intent before award of work. In case the contractor is failed to deposit the performance guarantee
within the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited and the tender shall be treated as void. The
performance  guarantee  shall  be  initially  valid  up  to  the  stipulated  date  of  completion  plus  06  months
2.  Contractors  who  fulfill  the  following  requirements  shall  be  eligible  to  apply.  Joint  ventures  are  not
Firms/contractors  must  have  completed  similar  works  satisfactorily  under  Government  organization/
Public Sector Undertaking / Autonomous bodies only.
One similar Composite work amounting to Rs. 66,23,455.00
Two similar Composite work and each single work amounting to Rs.49,67,591.00
Three similar Composite work and each single work amounting to Rs. 33,11,727.00
Firms/Contractors must have satisfactorily completed the Works of the value as defined above
during last 7 years ending on date 31.01.2026
Earnest  money  of  Rs.  1,65,586.00  in  the  form  of  Demand  Draft  or  Fixed  Deposit  Receipts  or
through RTGS / NEFT of a schedule bank drawn in favour of Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur or online
payment as per details given in NIT. No relaxation in EMD will be allowed for MSME and MSEs
as per CPWD works manual.
3.  The  intending  bidder  must  read  the  terms  and  conditions  of  IITJ/CPWD-6  carefully.  He  should  only
submit his bid if he considers himself eligible and he is in possession of all the documents required.
Information and Instructions for bidders posted on website shall form part of bid document.
4.  No exemption for submission of EMD/experience of work shall be allowed for MSME.
6.  The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items to
be executed and the  set of terms and conditions of the  contract to be complied with and other necessary
documents  can  be  seen  and  downloaded  from  website  http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app  in  free  of
7.  Completion  certificates  issued  by  an  officer  not  below  the  rank  of  Executive  Engineer  or  equivalent
level shall be considered.
●  Similar work means “Composite work( Civil and Electrical )”.
8.  The value of executed work shall be brought to current costing level by enhancing the actual value of work
at  simple  rate  of  7%  per  annum  calculated  from  the  date  of  completion  to  last  date  of  submission  of
IIT  Jodhpur  is  committed  to  follow  the  principle  of  transparency,  equity  and  competitiveness  in  public
procurement. Before submission of bid each bid should sign integrity pact at respective places and submit
the bid, if duly signed integrity pact is not submitted by bidder such bid shall not be considered.
10.  Those contractors not registered on CPP Portal are required to get registered beforehand. If needed they
can be imparted training on online bidding process as per details available on the website
11.  The intending bidder must have valid class-III digital signature to submit the bid.
12.  On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process. After opening the bids he will
receive the competitor bid sheets.
13.  Contractor can upload documents in the form of JPG format and PDF format.
14.  Contractor must ensure to quote rate of each item, while selecting any of the cells a warning appears that if
any cell is left blank the same shall be treated as “0”.Therefore, if any cell is left blank and no rate is quoted
by the bidder, rate of such item shall be treated as “0” (ZERO).
15.  The department reserves the right to reject any prospective application without assigning any reason and
to  restrict  the  list  of  qualified  contractors  to  any  number  deemed  suitable  by  it,  if  too  many  bids  are
received satisfying the laid down criterion.
16.  In  e-Tendering  intending  bidder  can  quote  his  rates  in  figures  only.  The  rates  in  words,  amount  of  each
item and total is generated automatically. Therefore, the rate quoted by the bidder in figures is to be taken
17.  The bid can only be submitted after uploading the mandatory scanned documents such as Demand Draft
or Fixed Deposit Receipts or through RTGS / NEFT towards Tender Fee and EMD (if applicable) in favour
of Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur or to be deposited with http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app/ NEFT facility.
For online payment through RTGS/NEFT IIT Jodhpur Bank details are as below:
Name of Bank A/C
Name of Bank & Branch
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Canara Bank & IIT Jodhpur.
18.  The EMD in original shall be deposited by the lowest tenderer within a week after opening of financial bid
failing which the tender shall be rejected.
19.  Certificate  of  work  experience  and  other  documents  as  specified  in  the  notice  inviting  tender  shall  be
scanned and uploaded to the e-Tendering website within the period of bid submission. However, certified
/ original copy of all the scanned and uploaded documents as specified in web notice may be verified by
20.  The bid submitted shall become invalid if:
i.  The  bidder  does  not  upload  all  the  documents  (including  GST  registration)  as  stipulated  in  the  bid
ii.  The lowest bidder does not deposit original EMD declaration within a week of opening of tender.
iii.  In the event of tender being submitted by a firm, it must be signed separately by each partner thereof
or  in  the  event  of  the  absence  of  any  partner,  it  must  be  signed  on  his  behalf  by  a  person  holding  a
power of attorney authorizing him to do so, such power of attorney to be produced with the tender,
and it must disclose that the firm is duly registered under the Indian Partnership Act 1932, above not
21.  Bid validity shall be 90 days after opening of bids.
22.  List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded within the period of bid submission:
i.  Affidavit  (on  Rs.  10  non-judicial  stamp  with  notarized)  regarding  establishment  of  proprietorship
firm/ partnership deed/ letter of incorporation for private ltd/ ltd firm with written power of attorney
(in case of bidder is owner, not required) of authorized signatory.
ii.  Proof of deposit of Tender Fee and EMD.
iii.  Attested copy of work experience certificate.
iv.  Attested copy of valid PAN, GSTIN Registration
v.  Attested copy of up to date filed return of GST.
vi.  Acceptance to execute Integrity Pact.
vii.  FORM “F” (Duly filled with all relevant required details).
viii.  Undertaking on Firm’s Letter Head Regarding blacklist.
ix.  List of Govt. Organization as per Annexure-II
xi.  Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 1.2 of IITJ/CPWD -6 FOR e-TENDERING.
1. Affidavit shall be purchased /notarized on or after NIT published date but on or before last date of
submission of NIT.
2. Affidavit must have “NIT/tender reference number” and “Name of work” and shall be used once
for each fresh tender as per following.
3.  No  back  dated  affidavit  shall  be  entertained  and  non-compliance  of  point  (i)  &  (ii)  shall  lead  to
rejection of the tender.
I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar works(s) has/have not been got executed through
another  contractor  on  back-to-back  basis.  Further  that,  if  such  a  violation  comes  to  the  notice  of
Department,  then  I/we  shall  be  debarred  for  tendering  in  IITJ  in  future  forever.  Also,  if  such  a
violation  comes  to  the  notice  of  Department  before  date  of  start  of  work,  the  Engineer-in-Charge
shall  be  free  to  forfeit  the  entire  amount  of  Earnest  Money  Deposit/Performance  Guarantee.
(Scanned copy to be uploaded at the time of submission of bid).
STRUCTURE & ORGANISATION
1.  Name & Address of the bidder
2.  Telephone no./ Phone no./ Fax no.
4.  Contact Person No.
5.  GST No.
6.  PAN No.
7.  Tender Fee (UTR No.)
(In case of on-line payment of Tender Fee)
8.  EMD (UTR No.)
(In case of on-line payment of Tender Fee)
9.  Legal status of the bidder (attach copies of original document defining the legal status)
a.  An Individual
b.  A proprietary firm
c.  A firm in partnership
d.  A limited company or corporation
5.   Designation of individuals authorized to act for the organization…………………………………………….
6.  Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever abandoned the awarded work
before its completion?  If so, give name of the project and reasons for abandonment…………………………
7.  Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever been debarred/ blacklisted for
8.  Has the bidder, or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever been convicted by the court of
Signature of Bidder/Tenderer
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Notice Inviting Tender
Terms & Conditions
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur in is in the process of purchasing following item(s) as per details as
given as under.
Details of the item
As per Tender Notice
Earnest  Money  Deposit  to
As per Tender Notice
As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.  Aspiring  Bidders  who  have  not  enrolled  /  registered  in  e-procurement
should  enroll  /  register  before  participating  through  the  website  http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app  .  The
portal enrolment is free of cost. Bidders are advised to go through instructions provided at ‘Instructions for online
Bid Submission ‘.
Tenderers can access tender documents on the website (For searching in the NIC site, kindly go to Tender Search
option  and  type  ‘IIT’.  Thereafter,  Click  on  “GO”  button  to  view  all  IIT  Jodhpur  tenders).  Select  the  appropriate
tender  and  fill  them  with  all  relevant  information  and  submit  the  completed  tender  document  online  on  the
website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app as per the schedule given in the next page.
No  manual  bid  will  be  accepted.  All  quotes  (both  Technical  and  Financial  should  be  submitted  in  the  E-
Name of  Organization
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Tender Category (Services/Goods/works)
Type/Form of Contract (Work/Supply/
Product Category (Civil Works/Electrical
Works/Fleet Management/ Computer Systems)
Source of Fund (Institute/Project)
Institute NR Budget
Is Multi Currency Allowed
Date of Issue/Publishing
Document Download/Sale Start Date
Document Download/Sale End Date
Date for Pre-Bid Conference
Venue of Pre-Bid Conference
Last Date and Time for Uploading of Bids
As per Tender Notice
Date and Time of Opening of Technical Bids
As per Tender Notice
In the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts or
through RTGS / NEFT
IIT Jodhpur Bank details are as under:
Name of the Bank A/C   : Director IIT Jodhpur
Canara Bank A/C No.    : 3399101000631
Name of the Bank           : Canara Bank  IIT Jodhpur,
IFSC Code                        : CNRB0003399
MICR Code                       : 342015501
No. of Covers (1/2/3/4)
02 (Technical and Financial)
Bid Validity days
Address for Communication
90 days (From the date of opening of bids)
Executive Engineer, Office of Infrastructure, W-1 Berm, IIT
Instructions for Online Bid Submission:
As  per  the  directives  of  Department  of  Expenditure,  this  tender  document  has  been  published  on  the  Central
Public Procurement Portal (URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app). The bidders are required to submit soft
copies  of  their  bids  electronically  on  the  CPP  Portal,  using  valid  Digital  Signature  Certificates.  The  instructions
given below are meant to assist the bidders in registering on the CPP Portal, prepare their bids in accordance with
the requirements and submitting their bids online on the CPP Portal.
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at:
1)  Bidders  are  required  to  enroll  on  the  e-Procurement  module  of  the  Central  Public  Procurement  Portal
(URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the  link “Click here  to Enroll”. Enrolment on
the CPP Portal is free of charge.
2)  As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and assign a
password for their accounts.
3)  Bidders  are  advised  to  register  their  valid  email  address  and  mobile  numbers  as  part  of  the  registration
process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.
4)  Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature Certificate  (Class II
or  Class  III  Certificates  with  signing  key  usage)  issued  by  any  Certifying  Authority  recognized  by  CCA
India (e.g. Sify / TCS / nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile.
5)  Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are responsible to ensure
that they do not lend their DSCs to others which may lead to misuse.
6)  Bidder  then  logs  in  to  the  site  through  the  secured  log-in  by  entering  their  userID  /  password  and  the
password of the DSC / eToken.
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS
1)  There  are  various  search  options  built  in  the  CPP  Portal,  to  facilitate  bidders  to  search  active  tenders  by
several  parameters.  These  parameters  could  include  Tender  ID,  organization  name,  location,  date,  value,
etc. There is also an option of advanced search for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of
search  parameters  such  as  organization  name,  form  of  contract,  location,  date,  other  keywords  etc.  to
search for a tender published on the CPP Portal.
2)  Once  the  bidders  have  selected  the  tenders  they  are  interested  in,  they  may  download  the  required
documents  /  tender  schedules.  These  tenders  can  be  moved  to  the  respective  ‘My  Tenders’  folder.  This
would  enable  the  CPP  Portal  to  intimate  the  bidders  through  SMS  /  e-mail  in  case  there  is  any
corrigendum issued to the tender document.
3)  The  bidder  should  make  a  note  of  the  unique  Tender  ID  assigned  to  each  tender,  in  case  they  want  to
obtain any clarification / help from the Helpdesk.
PREPARATION OF BIDS
Bidder  should  take  into  account  any  corrigendum  published  on  the  tender  document  before  submitting
Please  go  through  the  tender  advertisement  and  the  tender  document  carefully  to  understand  the
documents required to be submitted as part of the bid. Please note the number of covers in which the bid
documents have to be submitted, the number of documents  - including the  names and content of each of
the document that need to be submitted. Any deviations from these may lead to rejection of the bid.
Bidder,  in  advance,  should  get  ready  the  bid  documents  to  be  submitted  as  indicated  in  the  tender
document / schedule and generally, they can be in PDF / XLS / RAR / DWF formats. Bid documents may
be scanned with 100 dpi with black and white option.
To avoid the time and effort required in uploading the same set of standard documents which are required
to be submitted as a part of every bid, a provision of uploading such standard documents (e.g. PAN card
copy,  annual  reports,  auditor  certificates  etc.)  has  been  provided  to  the  bidders.  Bidders  can  use  “My
Space” area available to them to upload such documents. These documents may be directly submitted from
the “My Space” area while submitting a bid, and need not be uploaded again and again. This will lead to a
reduction in the time required for bid submission process.
SUBMISSION OF BIDS
Bidder should log into the site well in advance for bid submission so that he/she upload the bid in time i.e.
on or before the bid submission time. Bidder will be responsible for any delay due to other issues.
The  bidder  has  to  digitally  sign  and  upload  the  required  bid  documents  one  by  one  as  indicated  in  the
Bidder has to select the payment option as “on-line” to pay the tender fee / EMD as applicable and enter
details of the instrument. Whenever, EMD / Tender fees are sought, bidders need to pay the tender fee and
EMD  separately  on-line  through  RTGS  or  scan  copy  of  original  demand  draft  (Refer  to  Schedule,  Page
A standard BoQ format has been provided with the tender document to be filled by all the bidders. Bidders
are requested to note that they should necessarily submit their financial bids in the format provided and no
other format is acceptable. Bidders are required to download the BoQ file, open it and complete the white
coloured  (unprotected)  cells  with  their  respective  financial  quotes  and  other  details  (such  as  name  of  the
bidder). No other cells should be changed. Once the details have been completed, the bidder should save it
and submit it online, without changing the filename. If the BoQ file is found to be modified by the bidder,
the bid will be rejected.
The server time (which is displayed on the bidders’ dashboard) will be considered as the standard time for
referencing the deadlines for submission of the bids by the bidders, opening of bids etc. The bidders should
follow this time during bid submission.
All the documents being submitted by the bidders would be encrypted using PKI encryption techniques to
ensure the secrecy of the data. The data entered cannot be viewed by unauthorized persons until the time
of  bid  opening.  The  confidentiality  of  the  bids  is  maintained  using  the  secured  Socket  Layer  128  bit
encryption technology. Data storage encryption of sensitive fields is done.
The  uploaded  tender  documents  become  readable  only  after  the  tender  opening  by  the  authorized  bid
Upon  the  successful  and  timely  submission  of  bids,  the  portal  will  give  a  successful  bid  submission
message & a bid summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid
with all other relevant details.
Kindly add scanned PDF of all relevant documents in a single PDF file of compliance sheet.
ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS
Any  queries  relating  to  the  tender  document  and  the  terms  and  conditions  contained  therein  should  be
addressed  to  the  Tender  Inviting  Authority  for  a  tender  or  the  relevant  contact  person  indicated  in  the
Any  queries  relating  to  the  process  of  online  bid  submission  or  queries  relating  to  CPP  Portal  in  general
may be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk. The contact number for the helpdesk is 1800 233 7315.
General Instructions to the Bidders
The tenders will be received online through portal http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . In the Technical
Bids, the bidders are required to upload all the documents in .pdf format.
Possession of a Valid Class II/III Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) in the form of smart card/e-token in
the  company's  name  is  a  prerequisite  for  registration  and  participating  in  the  bid  submission  activities
through  https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app  .  Digital  Signature  Certificates  can  be  obtained  from  the
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app under the link “Information about DSC”.
Tenderer  are  advised  to  follow  the  instructions  provided  in  the  ‘Instructions  to  the  Tenderer  for  the  e-
submission  of  the  bids  online  through  the  Central  Public  Procurement  Portal  for  e  Procurement  at
Tenders  have  been  invited  on  the  basis  of  standard  Forms  7/8  and  General  Conditions  of  contract  for  the
work  in  Central  Public  Works  Department  (CPWD).  However,  in  the  contact  of  IIT  Jodhpur,  the  following
terms may be read as:
As per Standard Forms
To be read as
President of India
Government of India
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Central Public Works Departments
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Chief Engineer, CPWD
Dean of Infrastructure Planning, IIT Jodhpur
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Office of Infrastructure Engineering.
Terms & Conditions Details
Due date: The tender has to be submitted online before the due date. The offers received after the due date and
time will not be considered. No manual bids will be considered.
Preparation of Bids: The offer/bid should be submitted in two bid systems (i.e.) Technical bid and financial
bid. The technical bid should consist of all technical details along with commercial terms and conditions.
Financial bid should indicate item wise price for the items mentioned in the technical bid in the given format i.e
Financial Bids to be submitted in Excel.
The Technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted online.
EMD (if applicable): As per NIT
Refund of EMD: As per NIT
Opening of the tender: As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Acceptance/ Rejection of bids: The Committee reserves the right to reject any or all offers without assigning
Pre-qualification criteria: Mentioned in Tender notice
Performance Security: Mentioned in Tender notice
Force Majeure: As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Risk & Cost Clause: As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Delivery and Documents: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Delayed delivery: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Prices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Progress of Work: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Inspection and Tests: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Resolution of Disputes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Supplier Integrity: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Training: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Installation & Demonstration: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Incidental services: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Defect liability Period: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Governing Language: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Notices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Taxes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Termination for Default: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
28.  Disputes and Jurisdiction: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Completion certificate: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
S. No.  Technical Bid Requirement As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7
Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 22 (i) page 5 of NIT.
Proof of deposit of Tender Fee and EMD.
Attested copy of work experience certificate.
Attested copy of valid PAN, GSTIN Registration.
Attested copy of up to date filed return of GST.
Acceptance to execute Integrity Pact.
FORM “F” (Duly filled with all relevant required details).
Undertaking on Firm’s Letter Head Regarding blacklist.
List of Govt. Organization as per Annexure-II
Affidavit  as  per  Notice  Inviting  Tender  Condition  1.2  of  IITJ/CPWD  -6  FOR  e-
I have also enclosed all relevant documents in support of my claims, (as above) in the following pages.
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No. : ____________________________
List of Govt. Organization/ Deptt.
List  of  Government  organization/  Public  Sector  Undertaking  /  Autonomous  bodies  for  whom  the  Bidder  has
undertaken such work as per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD -7/8
Name of the organization
Name of Contact Person
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No. : ____________________________
IITJ/CPWD -6 FOR e-TENDERING
Percentage rate tenders are invited from contractors/firms engaged in the field of Composite work ( Civil and
Electrical ) in appropriate category for the work as per tender notice.
1.  The  work  is  estimated  to  cost  as  per  tender  notice  this  estimate,  however,  is  given  merely  as  a  rough
Details  of  criteria  for  eligibility  as  Indicated  in  “INFORMATION  AND  INSTRUCTIONS  FOR
CONTRACTORS FOR e-TENDERING FORMING PART OF NIT AND TO BE POSTED ON WEBSITE”
To become eligible for issue of tender, the tenderer shall have to furnish an affidavit.
Affidavit shall be purchased /notarized on or after NIT published date but on or before last date
of submission of NIT.
(ii)  Affidavit  must  have  “NIT/tender  reference  number”  and  “Name  of  work”  and  shall  be  used
once for each fresh tender.
No back dated affidavit shall be entertained and non-compliance of point (i)  & (ii) shall lead to
rejection of the tender.
Affidavit should be as mentioned under: -
“I/We  undertake and  confirm  that  eligible  similar works(s)  has/have  not  been  got  executed through
another  contractor  on  back  to  back  basis.  Further  that,  if  such  a  violation  comes  to  the  notice  of
Department, then I/we shall be debarred for tendering in IIT Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a
violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall
be  free  to  forfeit  the  entire  amount  of  Earnest  Money  Deposit/Performance  Guarantee.”  (Scanned
copy to be uploaded at the time of submission of bid)
2.  Agreement shall be drawn with the successful bidders on prescribed Form No. IITJ/CPWD form No. 7
(or  other standard form as mentioned), which is available  as a Govt. of India Publication. Bidders shall
quote  his  rates  as  per  various  terms  and  conditions  of  the  said  form  which  will  form  part  of  the
3.  The time allowed for carrying out the work will be as per tender notice from the date of start as defined
in schedule ‘F’ or from the first date of handing over of the site, whichever is later, in accordance with the
phasing, if any, indicated in the tender documents.
4.  The site for the work is available.
5.  The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items
to  be  executed  and  the  set  of  terms  and  conditions  of  the  contract  to  be  complied  with  and  other
necessary  documents  except  Standard  General  Conditions  of  Contract  Form  can  be  seen  from  the  web
Site http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app or iitj.ac.in or e-procure.gov free of cost.
6.  After submission of the bid the contractor can re-submit revised bid any number of times but before last
time and date of submission of tender as notified.
7.  While  submitting  the  revised  bid,  contractor  can  revise  the  rate  of  one  or  more  item(s)  any  number  of
times (he need not re-enter rate of all the items) but before last time and date of submission of tender as
If it is desired to submit revised financial bid, then it shall be mandatory to submit revised financial bid.
If not submitted, then the tender submitted earlier shall become invalid.
9.  Earnest Money in the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts (drawn in favour of Director IIT
Jodhpur)  or  through  RTGS  /  NEFT    from  any  Scheduled/  Nationalized  Bank  and  shall  be  scanned  &
uploaded  to  the  e-tendering  website  within  the  period  of  tender  submission  and  original  should  be
deposited by lowest bidder within a week after the opening of financial bid in office of  Superintending
Engineer, IIT Jodhpur.
The  time  &  date  of  submission  &  opening  of  financial  bid  of  contractors  qualifying  the  criteria  as  per
Tender Notice shall be communicated to them at a later date.
The  successful  bidders  shall  be  required  to  submit  a  performance  guarantee  of  5%  of  the  tendered
amount in the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of
issue of letter of intent before award of work. In case the contractor is failed to deposit the performance
guarantee within the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited and the tender shall be treated
as void. The performance guarantee shall be initially valid up to the stipulated date of completion plus 06
The earnest money deposited along with bid shall be returned after receiving the aforesaid performance
guarantee.  In  case  the  contractor  fails  to  deposit  the  said  performance  guarantee  within  the  period  as
indicated  in  Schedule  ‘F’  including  the  extended  period  if  any,  the  Earnest  Money  deposited  by  the
contractor shall be forfeited automatically without any notice to the contractor.
Intending  Bidders  are  advised  to  inspect  and  examine  the  site  and  its  surroundings  and  satisfy
themselves  before  submitting  their  tenders  as  to  the  nature  of  the  ground  and  sub-soil  (so  far  as  is
practicable), the form and nature of the site, the means of access to the site, the accommodation they may
require  and  in  general  shall  themselves  obtain  all  necessary  information  as  to  risks,  contingencies  and
other  circumstances  which  may  influence  or  affect  their  tender.  Bidder  shall  be  deemed  to  have  full
knowledge  of  the  site  whether  he  inspects  it  or  not  and  no  extra  charge  consequent  to  any
misunderstanding  or  otherwise  shall  be  allowed.  The  tenderer  shall  be  responsible  for  arranging  and
maintaining at his  own cost all  materials, tools & plants,  water, electricity, access, facilities for  workers
and all other services required for  executing the  work unless  otherwise  specifically provided for  in  the
contract  documents.  Submission  of  a  tender  by  a  tenderer  implies  that  he  has  read  this  notice  and  all
other contract documents and has made himself aware of the scope and specifications of the work to be
done  and  of  conditions  and  rates  at  which  stores,  tools  and  plant,  etc.  will  be  issued  to  him  by  the
Government , local conditions and other factors having a bearing on the execution of the work.
The  competent  authority  does  not  bind  itself  to  accept  the  lowest  or  any  other  tender  and  reserves  to
itself  the  authority  to  reject  any  or  all  the  tenders  received  without  the  assignment  of  any  reason.  All
tenders  in  which  any  of  the  prescribed  condition  is  not  fulfilled  or  any  condition  including  that  of
conditional rebate is put forth by the tenderer shall be summarily rejected.
Canvassing  whether  directly  or  indirectly,  in  connection  with  tenderers  is  strictly  prohibited  and  the
tenders submitted by the contractors who resort to canvassing will be liable to rejection.
The competent authority reserves the right to accept the whole or any part of the tender and the tenderer
shall be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.
The  bidder  shall  not  be  permitted  to  tender  for  works  in  the  IIT  Jodhpur  responsible  for  award  and
execution of contracts, in which his near relative is posted as a Divisional Accountant or as an officer in
any capacity between the grades of Dean of Infrastructure Planning and Junior Engineer (both inclusive).
The contract shall be withdrawn if any bidder is found violating this condition.
18.  No  Engineer  of  Gazetted  rank  or  other  Gazetted  Officer  employed  in  Engineering  or  Administrative
duties in an Engineering Department of the Government of India is allowed to work as a contractor for a
period of one year after his retirement from Government service, without the previous permission of the
Government of India in writing. This contract is liable to be cancelled if either the contractor or any of his
employees  is  found  at  any  time  to  be  such  a  person  who  had  not  obtained  the  permission  of  the
Government  of  India  as  aforesaid  before  submission  of  the  tender  or  engagement  in  the  contractor’s
The tender for the works shall remain open for acceptance for a period of ninety (90) days from the date
of  opening  of  tender.  If  any  tenderer  withdraws  his  tender  before  the  said  period  or  issue  of  letter  of
acceptance,  whichever  is  earlier,  or  makes  any  modifications  in  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  tender
which are not acceptable to the department, then the institute shall, without prejudice to any other right
or remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 50% of the said earnest money as aforesaid. Further the tenderer shall
not be allowed to participate in the retendering process of the work.
This  notice  inviting  tender  shall  form  a  part  of  the  contract  document.  The  successful  tenderer  /
contractor,  on  acceptance  of  his  tender  by  the  Accepting  Authority  shall  within  15  days  from  the
stipulated date of start of the work, sign the contract consisting of:
a.  The Notice Inviting Tender, all the documents including additional conditions, specifications and
drawings, if any, forming part of the tender as uploaded at the time of invitation of tender and the
rates  quoted  online  at  the  time  of  submission  of  bid  and  acceptance  thereof  together  with  any
correspondence leading thereto.
b.  Standard IITJ/CPWD Form – 7/8 or other Standard IITJ Form as mentioned.
INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING
Subject: - Construction of DRDO Lab Facility at IIT Jodhpur
Sub Head: -Composite  Work (Civil and Electrical )
It is hereby declared that I.I.T. Jodhpur is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity
and competitiveness in public procurement.
The  subject  Notice  Inviting  Tender  (NIT)  is  an  invitation  to  offer  made  on  the  condition  that  the
Bidder will sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender/bid documents, failing which
the tenderer / bidder will stand disqualified from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be
This  declaration  shall  form  part  and  parcel  of  the  Integrity  Agreement  and  signing  of  the  same
shall be deemed as acceptance and signing of the Integrity Agreement on behalf of the I.I.T. Jodhpur.
Office of Infrastructure Engineering
Acceptance to execute integrity pact
(To be signed by bidder and upload the scanned copy)
IIT Jodhpur, NH 62 Nagour Road Karwar
Subject:        Construction of DRDO Lab Facility at IIT Jodhpur
Sub Head:    Composite Work (Civil and Electrical )
I/We  acknowledge  that  I.I.T.  Jodhpur  is  committed  to  follow  the  principles  thereof  as
enumerated in the Integrity Agreement enclosed with the tender/bid document.
I/We  agree  that  the  Notice  Inviting  Tender  (NIT)  is  an  invitation  to  offer  made  on  the
condition that I/We will sign the enclosed integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender /
bid  documents,  failing  which  I/We  will  stand  disqualified  from  the  tendering  process.  I/We
acknowledge  that  THE  MAKING  OF  THE  BID  SHALL  BE  REGARDED  AS  AN  UNCONDITIONAL
AND ABSOLUTE ACCEPTANCE of this condition of the NIT.
I/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter and spirit and
further  agree  that  execution  of  the  said  Integrity  Agreement  shall  be  separate  and  distinct  from  the
main  contract,  which  will  come  into  existence  when  tender/bid  is  finally  accepted  by  I.I.T.Jodhpur.
I/We acknowledge and accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which shall be in the line with
Article 1 of the enclosed Integrity Agreement.
I/We  acknowledge  that  in  the  event  of  my/our  failure  to  sign  and  accept  the  Integrity
Agreement,  while  submitting  the  tender/bid,  I.I.T.  Jodhpur  shall  have  unqualified,  absolute  and
unfettered right to disqualify the  tender  / bidder and reject the  tender/bid is accordance with terms
and conditions of the tender/bid.
(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)
INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING
To be signed by the bidder and same signatory competent / authorized to
sign the relevant contract on behalf of IIT Jodhpur.
This Integrity Agreement is made at ...........................................on this....................day of................. 2..........
The Director, IIT Jodhpur represented through Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
................................................................................................................................................, (Hereinafter referred as the
(Address of Division)
‘Principal/Owner’, which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its
successors and permitted assigns)
(Name and Address of the Individual /firm/Company)
through...................................................................................................................... ....... (Hereinafter referred to as the
(Details of duly authorized signatory)
“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include
its successors and permitted assigns)
WHEREAS the Principal / Owner has floated the Tender (NIT No. .......................................) (Hereinafter
referred to as “Tender/Bid”) and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract
(Name of work)
hereinafter referred to as the “Contract”.
AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, rules,
regulations, economic use of resources and of fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) and
AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to enter into this Integrity
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact” or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall also
be read as integral part and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact, the parties hereby agree as
follows and this Pact witnesses as under:
Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner
1)  The  Principal/Owner  commits  itself  to  take  all  measures  necessary  to  prevent  corruption  and  to
observe the following principles:
No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of his/her family members,
will in connection with the Tender, or the execution of the Contract, demand, take a promise
for or accept, for self or third person, any material or immaterial benefit which the person is
not legally entitled to.
The  Principal/Owner  will,  during  the  Tender  process,  treat  all  Bidder(s)  with  equity  and
reason.  The  Principal/Owner  will,  in  particular,  before  and  during  the  Tender  process,
provide  to  all  Bidder(s)  the  same  information  and  will  not  provide  to  any  Bidder(s)
confidential / additional information through which the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage
in relation to the Tender process or the Contract execution.
The Principal/Owner shall endeavor to exclude from the Tender process any person, whose
conduct in the past has been of biased nature.
If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a criminal
offence  under  the  Indian  Penal  code  (IPC)/Prevention  of  Corruption  Act,  1988  (PC  Act)  or  is  in
violation of the principles herein mentioned or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the
Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can also initiate disciplinary
actions as per its internal laid down policies and procedures.
Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)
It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective officers, employees and agents)
adhere  to  the  highest  ethical  standards,  and  report  to  the  Government  /  Department  all  suspected
acts of  fraud or corruption or Coercion or Collusion  of which it has knowledge or  becomes aware,
during the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of a contract.
2)  The      Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  commits    himself      to      take      all      measures  necessary  to  prevent
corruption.  He  commits  himself  to  observe  the following principles during his participation in  the
Tender process and during the Contract execution:
The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  will  not,  directly  or  through  any  other  person  or  firm,  offer,
promise or give to any of the Principal/Owner’s employees involved in the Tender process or
execution of the Contract or to any third person any material or other benefit which he/she is
not legally entitled to, in order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever
during the Tender process or during the execution of the Contract.
The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  will  not  enter  with  other  Bidder(s)  into  any  undisclosed
agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal. This applies in particular to prices,
specifications,  certifications,  subsidiary  contracts,  submission  or  non-submission  of  bids  or
any other actions to restrict competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.
The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  will  not  commit  any  offence  under  the  relevant  IPC/PC  Act.
Further the Bidder(s)/Contract(s) will not use improperly, (for the purpose of competition or
personal  gain),  or  pass  on  to  others,  any  information  or  documents  provided  by  the
Principal/Owner  as  part  of  the  business  relationship,  regarding  plans,  technical  proposals
and business details, including information contained or transmitted electronically.
The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  of  foreign  origin  shall  disclose  the  names  and  addresses  of
if  any.  Similarly  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  of  Indian
Nationality  shall  disclose  names  and  addresses  of  foreign  agents/representatives,  if  any.
Either  the  Indian  agent  on  behalf  of  the  foreign  principal  or  the  foreign  principal  directly
could bid in a tender but not both. Further, in cases where an agent participate in a tender on
behalf  of  one  manufacturer,  he  shall  not  be  allowed  to  quote  on  behalf  of  another
manufacturer along with the first manufacturer in a subsequent/parallel tender for the same
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any and all payments he
has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries
in connection with the award of the Contract.
3)  The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or be
an accessory to such offences.
4)  The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  will  not,  directly  or  through  any  other  person  or  firm  indulge  in
fraudulent  practice  means  a  willful  misrepresentation  or  omission  of  facts  or  submission  of
fake/forged documents in order to induce public official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose
of  obtaining  unjust  advantage  by  or  causing  damage  to  justified  interest  of  others  and/or  to
influence the procurement process to the detriment of the Government interests.
5)  The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm use Coercive
Practices (means the act of obtaining something, compelling an action or influencing a decision
through intimidation, threat or the use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or actual injury
may befall upon a person, his/ her reputation or property to influence their participation in the
Article 3: Consequences of Breach
Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner under law or the Contract or
its established policies and laid down procedures, the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in
case of breach of this Integrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts and
undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal/Owner’s absolute right:
If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or  during execution of Contract has committed a
transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or in any other form, such as to put his reliability
or credibility in question, the Principal/Owner after giving 14 days’ notice to the contractor shall have
powers to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the Tender process or terminate/determine the
Contract, if already executed or exclude the Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes.
The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of transgression and
determined  by  the  Principal/Owner.  Such  exclusion  may  be  forever  or  for  a  limited  period  as
decided by the Principal/Owner.
2)  Forfeiture  of  EMD/Performance  Guarantee/Security  Deposit:  If
the  Principal/Owner  has
disqualified  the  Bidder(s)  from  the  Tender  process  prior  to  the  award  of  the  Contract  or
terminated/determined  the  Contract  or  has  accrued  the  right  to  terminate/determine  the  Contract
according to Article  3(1), the  Principal/Owner apart  from exercising any legal rights that  may have
accrued  to  the  Principal/Owner,  may  in  its  considered  opinion  forfeit  the  entire  amount  of  Earnest
Money Deposit, Performance Guarantee and Security Deposit of the Bidder/Contractor.
3)  Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder or Contractor,
or  of  an  employee  or  a  representative  or  an  associate  of  a  Bidder  or  Contractor  which  constitutes
corruption within the meaning of IPC Act, or if the Principal/Owner has substantive suspicion in this
regard, the Principal/Owner will inform the same to law enforcing agencies for further investigation.
Article 4: Previous Transgression
1)  The  Bidder  declares  that  no  previous  transgressions  occurred  in  the  last  5  years  with  any  other
Company in any country confirming to the anticorruption approach or with Central Government or
State Government or any other Central/State Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his
exclusion from the Tender process.
If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the Tender process
or action can be taken for banning of business dealings/ holiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as
deemed fit by the Principal/ Owner.
If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he  has resorted / recouped the damage caused by him and
has  installed  a  suitable  corruption  prevention  system,  the  Principal/Owner  may,  at  its  own
discretion, revoke the exclusion prematurely.
Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors
1)  The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  undertake(s)  to  demand  from  all  subcontractors  a  commitment  in
conformity with this Integrity Pact. The Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of
the principles laid down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Sub-contractors/sub-vendors.
2)  The  Principal/Owner  will  enter  into  Pacts  on  identical  terms  as  this  one  with  all  Bidders  and
3)  The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly signed Pact between the
Principal/Owner and the  bidder, along with the  Tender or  violate  its provisions at any stage of the
Tender process, from the Tender process.
Article 6- Duration of the Pact
This  Pact  begins  when  both  the  parties  have  legally  signed  it.  It  expires  for  the  Contractor/Vendor  09
Months after the completion of work under the contract or till the continuation of defect liability period,
whichever is more and for all other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded.
If any claim is made/lodged during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite
the lapse of this Pacts as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined by the Competent Authority,
Article 7- Other Provisions
1)  This  Pact  is  subject  to  Indian  Law,  place  of  performance  and  jurisdiction  is  the  Headquarters  of  the
Division of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the Tender.
Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements have not been made.
If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be signed by all the  partners or by
one  or  more  partner  holding  power  of  attorney  signed  by  all  partners  and  consortium  members.  In
case of a Company, the Pact must be signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution.
4)  Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the remainder of this Pact remains
valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original intensions.
It is agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising between the parties with regard
to  the  terms  of  this  Integrity  Agreement  /  Pact,  any  action  taken  by  the  Owner/Principal  in
accordance  with  this  Integrity  Agreement/  Pact  or  interpretation  thereof  shall  not  be  subject  to
Article 8- LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS
All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all the other legal rights and remedies
belonging to such parties under the Contract and/or law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative
and  not  alternative  to  such  legal  rights  and  remedies  aforesaid.  For  the  sake  of  brevity,  both  the  Parties
agree that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the Tender/Contact documents with regard any of
the provisions covered under this Integrity Pact.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at the place and date first
above mentioned in the presence of following witnesses:
(For and on behalf of Principal/Owner)
(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor)
(signature, name and address)
(signature, name and address)
I.I.T.J – 7/8 e-TENDERING
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Percentage Rate Tender & Contract for Works
Tender for the work of: Construction of DRDO Lab Facility at IIT Jodhpur
Sub Head: - Composite Work (Civil and Electrical )
(C)  To be submitted by as per tender notice …………………………………..........................................................
(C)  To be opened in presence of bidders who may be present at as per tender notice …………..…………….
I/We  have  read  and  examined  the  notice  inviting  tender,  schedule,  A,  B,  C,  D,  E  &  F  Specifications
applicable, Drawings & Designs, General Rules and Directions, Conditions of Contract, clauses of contract,
Special conditions, Schedule of Rate & other documents and Rules referred to in the conditions of contract
and all other contents in the tender document for the work.
I/We hereby tender for the execution of the work specified for I.I.T. Jodhpur, within the time specified in
Schedule  ‘F’  viz.,  schedule  of  quantities  and  in  accordance  in  all  respect  with  the  specifications,  designs,
drawing and instructions in writing referred to in Rule-1 of General Rules and Directions and in Clause 11
of the Conditions of contract and with such materials as are provided for, by, and in respect of accordance
with, such conditions so far as applicable.
We agree to keep the tender open for Ninety (90) days from the date of opening of bid.
A sum of as per tender notice is hereby forwarded in Banker Cheque or Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit
receipt  of  a  schedule  bank  drawn  in  favour  of  IIT  Jodhpur  earnest  money.  If  I/We,  fail  to  furnish  the
prescribed  performance  guarantee  within  prescribed  period.  I/We  agree  that  the  I.I.T.  Jodhpur  or  his
successors,  in  office  shall  without  prejudice  to  any  other  right  or  remedy,  be  at  liberty  to  forfeit  the  said
earnest money absolutely. Further, if I/We fail to commence work as specified, I/We agree that The I.I.T.
Jodhpur or the successors in office shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy available in law, be
at liberty to forfeit the  said earnest money  and the  performance guarantee absolutely, otherwise the  said
earnest money shall be retained by him towards security deposit to execute all the works referred to in the
tender  documents upon the  terms and conditions contained or  referred to those  in excess of that limit at
the rates to be determined in accordance with the provision contained in Clause 12.2 and 12.3 of the tender
form.  Further,  I/We  agree  that  in  case  of  forfeiture  of  Earnest  Money  &  Performance  Guarantee  as
aforesaid. I/We shall be debarred for participation in the re-tendering process of the work.
I/We  undertake  and  confirm  that  eligible  similar  work(s)  has/have  not  been  got  executed  through
another  contractor  on  back  to  back  basis.  Further  that,  if  such  a  violation  comes  to  the  notice  of
Department, then I/We shall be debarred for tendering in I.I.T. Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a
violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall
be free to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee.
I/We  hereby  declare  that  I/We  shall  treat  the  tender  documents  drawings  and  other  records  connected
with  the  work  as  secret/confidential  documents  and  shall  not  communicate  information/derived  there
from to any person other than a person to whom I/We am/are authorized to communicate the same or use
the information in any manner prejudicial to the safety of the State.
Signature of Contractor
I.I.T.J– 7/8 e-TENDERING
The  above  tender  (as  modified  by  you  as  provided  in  the  letters  mentioned  hereunder)  is
The letters referred to below form part of this contract agreement:
For & on behalf of IIT Jodhpur
PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
Schedule of quantities (enclosed)
Schedule of materials to be issued to the contractor.
Description of item
Place of issue
Rates in figures &
words at which the
material will be
charged to the
Tools and plants to be hired to the contractor
Hire charges per day
Place of Issue
Extra schedule for specific requirements/document for the work, if any.
---------- Nil ------------
Reference to General Conditions of contract: General Conditions of contract for CPWD/IITJ Works 2023: GCC
2023 for Construction Works, Form-7 for CPWD works as amended up to last date of submission of
Name of work: Construction of DRDO Lab Facility at IIT Jodhpur
Sub Head: Civil  Work.
(i)  Estimated cost of work
(ii)  Earnest Money
As per Tender Notice
As per Tender Notice
(iii) Performance Guarantee
(iv) Security Deposit
the sum deducted will amount to security deposit of 2.5% of the tendered amount of the work.
As per Tender Notice
2.5% of the gross amount of each running and final bill till
SCHEDULE ‘F’ ( Composite Work (Civil and Electrical ))
General Rules & Directions:
Officer inviting tender
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Maximum  percentage  for  quantity  of
items  of  work  to  be  executed  beyond
which  rates  are  to  be  determined  in
accordance with Clauses 12.2 & 12.3
Executive Engineer (Civil)
Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Percentage  on  cost  of  materials  and
labor to cover all overhead & profits
Standard schedule of Rates
DSR  2023  (Civil)  and  DSR  2025  (E&M)  with  up  to  date
correction slips and market rate.
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Standard IITJ contract Form
General  Conditions  of
Construction  Works  2023  as  amended/modified  up  to
last date of submission of bid.
submission  of  Performance  guarantee,
Programme  Chart  (Time  and  Progress)  and  applicable  labour
licenses,  registration  with  EPFO,  ESIC  and  BOCW  Welfare  Board
including  Provident  Fund  Code  No.  or  proof  of  applying  thereof
from date of issue of letter of acceptance.
(ii)  Maximum  allowable  extension  with  late  fee  @  0.1%  per  day  of
performance  guarantee  amount  beyond  the  period  provided  in  (i)
Authority for fixing Compensation under Clause 2
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Whether clause 2A is applicable
Number  of  days  from  the  date  of  issue  of  letter  of
acceptance  for  reckoning  date  of  start  Mile  stone(s)
as per table given below
Description of Milestone(Physical)
Time Allowed in days
(from date of start)
Amount to be with-held in case
of non achievement of
including  RR  masonry
Earthwork  in  excavation,  disposal,
PCC,  and  RCC  work  up  to  plinth
foundation & plinth
Superstructure  works  including  brick
masonry,  RCC,  steel  reinforcement,
and  structural  steel  fabrication  &
Electrical  works  (supply,  installation,
testing  &  commissioning  of  wiring,
switches,  sockets,  conduits,  earthing),
finishing, cleaning & handing over
10% of bill value
10% of bill value
10% of bill value
Time allowed for execution of work
Authority to decide:
Extension of time
Rescheduling of mile stones
Shifting  of  date  of  start  in  case  of
delay in handing over of site
Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Clause 6, 6A
Clause applicable -
Computerized measure book (CMB) / Electronic
Measurement book (EMB)
Mode of measurement - Computerized measure book (CMB)
Gross work to be done together with net payment
/adjustment of advances for material collected, if
any, since the last such payment for being eligible
to interim payment
Clause 10 A
Clause 10B (i)
Whether Clause 10 B (ii) shall be applicable
Component of labour expressed as percentage of
value of work
Clause 10CA and Clause 10CC escalation clause
Schedule of component of other Materials, Labour, POL etc. for price escalation.
Component of civil (except materials covered under
clause 10CA) /Electrical construction Materials
expressed as percent of total value of work. -
Component of Labour -
expressed as percent of total value of work.
Component of P.O.L. -
expressed as percent of total value of work.
Specifications to be followed for execution of work
CPWD specifications 2019 Vol-1&2 for civil with
upto date correction slips & manufacturers
specifications & NIT
Type of work
12.2. & 12.3 Deviation Limit beyond which clauses
shall apply for building work
Competent Authority for deciding reduced rates
Construction of DRDO Lab Facility at IIT
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Defect Liability Period - 12 Months after the issue of the certificate final or otherwise, of completion of
work, or till the final bill has been prepared and passed whichever is later.
Note : - Security deposit will be refunded after the expiry of the defect liability period
List of mandatory machinery, tools & plants to be deployed by the contractor at site: -
As per requirement and direction of Engineer-In-Charge
Constitution   of   Dispute   Redressal Committee
DRC  shall  constitute  one  Chairman  and  two
Competent   Authority   to   appoint DRC
Director, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
“Requirement of Technical Representative (s) and Recovery Rate” for the work
Requirement of Technical
Designation of Technical Staff
BE or B.
2 or 5
Project Manager cum
Rate at which
recovery shall be
made from the
contractor in the
event of not
Rs. 15000/- per
“Assistant Engineer retired from Government Services those are holding Diploma will be treated at par
with Graduate Engineer”.
Diploma holder with minimum 10 year relevant experience with a reputed construction co. can be
treated at par with graduate Engineers for the purpose of such deployment subject to the condition
that such diploma holders should not exceed 50% of requirement of degree engineers.
Schedule/statement for determining theoretical
quantity of cement & bitumen on the basis of Delhi
Schedule of Rates
Variations permissible on theoretical quantities
Cement for works estimated cost put to tender not
more than Rs. 25 Lakhs
For works with estimated cost put to tender more
than Rs. 25 Lakhs
Bitumen for all works
Steel reinforcement  and structural steel section for
each diameter, section and category
All other materials
DSR 2023 with correction slips issued
upto last date of submission of bid
3 % plus/minus
2 % plus/minus
2.5% plus only & nil on minus side
RECOVERY RATES FOR QUANTITY BEYOND PERMISSSIBLE VARIATION For All Elements
Excess beyond permissible limits
Less use beyond the permissible limit
As per CPWD norms
As per CPWD norms
BANK GUARANTEE BOND
Form of Earnest Money Deposit
Bank Guarantee Bond
WHEREAS,  contractor  ………………………..(Name    of    contractor)    (hereinafter    called
“the  contractor”)  has  submitted  his tender dated
(date)  for  the  work  of(name  of
work) (hereinafter called “the Tender”)
…..(name    of    bank)    having
KNOW ALL PEOPLE  by  these  presents  that  we
our registered office   at
Bank”)  are bound  unto
(Name and division of Engineer) (hereinafter called “the Engineer-in-Charge”) in the sum of
Rs.  .........................  (Rs.  In  words  .................................................)  for  which  payment  well  and
truly  to  be  made  to  the  said  Engineer-in-Charge  the  Bank  binds  itself,  his  successors  and
assigns by these presents.
SEALED with the Common Seal of the said Bank this .................day of ................. 20....
THE CONDITIONS of this obligation are:
(1)  If after tender opening the Contractor withdraws, his tender during the period of validity of
tender (including extended validity of tender) specified in the Form of Tender;
(2)  If  the  contractor  having  been  notified  of  the  acceptance  of  his  tender  by  the  Engineer-in-
(C)  fails or refuses to execute the Form of Agreement in accordance with the Instructions to
contractor, if required;
(C)  fails or refuses to furnish the Performance Guarantee, in accordance with the provisions of
tender document and Instructions to contractor,
(C)  Ifails or refuses to start the work, in accordance with the provisions of the contract and
Instructions to contractor,
(d)   fails or refuses to submit fresh Bank Guarantee of an equal amount of this Bank Guarantee,
against Security Deposit after award of contract.
We undertake to pay to the Engineer-in-Charge either up to the above amount or part thereof
upon  receipt  of  his  first  written  demand,  without  the  Engineer-in-Charge  having  to
substantiates his demand, provided that in his demand the Engineer-in-Charge will note that
the amount claimed by his is due to him owing to the occurrence of one or any of the above
conditions, specifying the occurred condition or conditions.
This Guarantee will remain in force  up to and including the date* ............. after the deadline
for  submission  of  tender  as  such  deadline  is  stated  in  the  Instructions  to  contractor  or  as  it
may  be  extended  by  the  Engineer-in-Charge,  notice  of  which  extension(s)  to  the  Bank  is
hereby waived. Any demand in respect of this Guarantee should reach the Bank not later than
the above date.
SIGNATURE OF THE BANK
(SIGNATURE, NAME AND
*Date to be worked out on the basis of validity period of 6 months from last date of receipt of tender.
TERMS AND CODITIONS OF CONTRACT
Agency/  Firm  shall  abide  by  all  laws  of  the  land  including,  labour  laws,  Companies  Act,  Tax
deduction liabilities, welfare measures of its employees and all other statutory obligations that enjoin
in  such  cases  and  are  not  enumerated  and  defined  herein,  through  any  such  onus  shall  be  the
exclusive  responsibility  of  the  Agency/  Firm,  and  it  shall  not  involve  the  Institute  in  any  way
The Financial Bid must be submitted in BOQ/Price Bid only.
Institute  reserves  the  right  to  require  the  Agency/  Firm  to  remove  any  person  deployed  by  the
company,  without  assigning  any  reasons/notice.  This  will  be  without  prejudice  to  the  right  of  the
Agency/ Firm to remove any of his own employees deployed in the Institute.
In the case of any dereliction of duty, negligence, an unintended or intended damage caused by the
Agency/  Firm  or  its  staff  pertaining  to  this  agreement,  or  otherwise,  any  harm  is  done  to  the
Institute, the Agency/ Firm shall make good the loss or pay the compensation, refund expenditure
on legal/judicial proceedings as well as pay such penalty which the party of the first part may deem
It  would  be  responsibility  of  Agency/Firm  to  arrange  all  permission/  approvals  from  all  local
bodies/statutory bodies & nothing extra shall be paid on account of this by the Institute.
The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for all injury and accident to persons employed by him while
on duty. It is desirable that all employees are covered under an insurance cover.
All  employees  of  the  Agency/Firm  shall  be  issued  Identity  Cards  bearing  their  photographs.
Photographs  for  identity  cards  shall  be  provided  by  the  Agency/  Firm  at  their  own  cost.  The  ID
Cards will be issued by the Agency/ Firm. These will be countersigned by the IIT Jodhpur Security
Officer/ Engineer of Office of Infrastructure Engineering.
The  Agency/Firm  shall  be  responsible  for  the  good  conduct  and  behavior  of  its  employees.  If  any
employee  of  the  Agency/  Firm  is  found  misbehaving  with  the  supervisory  staff  or  other  staff
members of the Institute the Agency/ Firm shall terminate the services of such employees forthwith
at  their  own  risk  and  responsibility.  The  Agency/  Firm  shall  issue  necessary  Instructions  to  its
employees to act upon the instructions given by the supervisory staff of the Institute.
9.  When  a  register  gets  completed,  it  will  be  handed  over  to  the  concerned  J.E.  /  A.E.  It  will  not  be
returned to the contractor and the same will remain the property of the department.
The Agency/Firm shall obtain all other necessary approvals from statutory bodies as per applicable
law in vogue.
The dismantled material which has scrap valve needs to be handed over to Institute.
In the  event of any loss being  occurred to the  Institute  during the course of execution of work, on
account  of  the  negligence  of  duty  by  the  Agency/  Firm’  and  their  employees,  the  Agency/  Firm
shall  make  good  the  loss  sustained  to  the  Institute  either  by  replacement  or  on  payment  of  the
adequate compensation as per decision of Engineer-in-charge.
The  Agency/  Firm  shall  not  appoint  sub-Agency/Firm  to  carry  out  any  obligation  under  the
The Agency/ Firm will take  day-to-day instructions from the  supervisory staff of the  institute and
shall maintain diary for the same.
The labours engaged by agency  shall not be below age 18 years and no  worker will be allowed  to
stay in the Institute campus.
The Agency/Firm shall maintain an Inspection Book as prescribed, which will be made available to
supervisory  staff  of  the  Institute.  Fault/observation  record  there  on  shall  be  attended  to
17.  Agency/ Firms will apply to the Labour Commissioner for obtaining a Labour License as applicable
and  nothing  extra  shall  be  paid  to  Agency  by  IIT  Jodhpur.  Agency/  Firms  will  submit  a  copy  of
license to officer-in-charge of IIT Jodhpur.
The  Agency/  Firm  would  sign  and  give  an  undertaking  as  per  Performa  every  month  for
compliance of the provision of Contract Labour Act. Rule and other Law as applicable.
19.  Any  dispute  arising  out  of  and  in  relation  to  this  agreement  shall  be  referred  to  the  arbitration  by
sole arbitrator to be appointed by Director of the Institute. The arbitration would be conducted and
governed by and under the provisions of Arbitration Act, 1996. Any legal dispute will be subject to
jurisdiction of Jodhpur Courts only and no other court shall have the jurisdiction refer IITJ/CPWD
GCC form 7/8 in regard.
IIT  Jodhpur  is  a  ‘No  SMOKING  ZONE’  The  Agency/  Firm  should  ensure  that  his  employees  DO
NOT SMOKE  while working in the  IIT Campus. They will also  not indulge in  drinking alcohol  or
any other intoxicants. They will not consume drugs and eat pan/ Khaini / tobacco etc. they will not
play cards or indulge in gambling on campus.
The  Agency/  Firm  shall  keep  himself  fully  informed  of  all  acts  and  laws  of  the  Central  and  State
Government,  all  orders,  decrees  of  statutory  bodies,  tribunals  having  any  jurisdiction  or  authority,
which  in  any  manner  may  affect  their  engaged  or  employed  and  anything  related  to  carry  out  the
work. All the  rules & regulations & byelaws  lay down by the  local bodies and  any other statutory
bodies shall be adhered to, by the Agency/ Firm, during the execution of work.
22.  Agency/ Firm must employ adult and skilled personnel only. Employment of child labour shall lead
to  the  termination  of  the  contract  at  the  risk  and  cost  of  the  Agency/  Firm.  Agency/  Firm  shall
deploy/ engage reliable persons at client after proper character and police verification and impose
any  conditions  as  per  prevailing  contractual  labour  laws  for  such  engagements,  take  disciplinary
action or reward any person at work etc., at its sole costs, risks and responsibilities.
23.  Agency/ Firm shall deal with and settle the matters related with unions and shall make sure that no
labour disputes / problems are referred to Client. It shall totally indemnify Client in this regard.
24.  Agency/  Firm  should  at  all  times  indemnify  Client  against  all  claims,  damages  or  compensation
under  the  provisions  of  payment  of  wages  Act,  1936;  Minimum  Wages  Act,  1948;  Employer’s
Liability Act, 1938 ; the workmen compensation Act, 1932 ; Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; Maternity
Benefit  Act,  1961  ;  or  any  modification  thereof  or  any  other  law  relating  thereto  and  rules  made
hereunder from time. Client will not own any responsibility in this regard.
Tenderer  should  not  have  conflict  of  interest.  The  tenderer  found  to  have  conflict  interest  shall  be
Joint ventures is not allowed.
27.  No  Rebate  on  account  of  small  scale  industries  or  any  other  ground  or  on  any  other  ground  or
documents shall be granted in this SPC/ Tender.
28.  All  statutory  &  mandatory  deductions  as  per  Government  of  India  &  Rajasthan  State  Government
norms shall be deducted from each running bill & final bill of agency/ firm.
29.  GST shall be applicable in this contract. NIT and the rules of Govt. of India of as notified from time
to time shall be followed in items of GST. Presently, 18% GST has been considered in this tender and
agency has to quote the rates inclusive of GST.
30.  No  escalation  clause  i.e,  clause  10CC  of  IITJ/CPWD  GCC  form  7/8  is  applicable  in  this  NIT/
Security deposit @2.5% will be deducted for entire gross work done including extension period if
any, from each installment however, earnest money deposit will be adjusted to security deposit.
1% (one percent) cess towards labour welfare fund or as applicable, income tax as applicable and other
taxes/ statutory recoveries as applicable will be deducted from the bill of contractor.
33.  Non-Judicial  stamp  paper  worth  Rs.  10/-  (Ten  Rupees  only)  will  be  submitted  by  contractor  which
will have to be signed as token of acceptance.
34.  No  Tools  &  Plants  would  be  supplied  by  the  Institute  and  contractor  will  have  to  make  his  own
The contractors are advised to get acquainted with the  proposed work including specifications & its
site  and  additional  conditions  carefully  before  quoting.  No  claim  of  any  sort  shall  be  entertained  or
account of any site conditions and ignorance of specifications & additional conditions. The work shall
be carried out as per the availability of site.
The  work  shall  be  carried  out  as  per  CPWD  specifications  for  civil  and  electrical  work  with  up  –  to
date  correction  slips  unless  otherwise  specified  in  the  nomenclature  of  individual  item  or  in  the
specification, additional conditions where specifications are silent, the decision of Engineer-in-Charge
shall be final and binding on contractor.
The rates quoted by the contractor shall be taken as net and nothing extra shall be paid on any account
i.e Royalty, Cartage, GST & stacking of material required at places etc. The rates for different items of
work shall apply for Heights & Depths, Leads & Lifts unless otherwise specified in the agreement or
specifications applicable in the agreement.
38.  Articles manufactured by the reputed firms and approved make list in tender.
The sample of material required in the work brought at site shall be got approved from Engineer  –in-
Charge before use in execution of work.
40.  All the required materials shall be got checked & approved by the Engineer-in-charge on receipt of
the same at site before use and rejected material is to be removed from the site immediately.
The sample of material required for Testing shall be provided at free of cost by the contractor. Testing
charges  if  any  shall  be  borne  by  the  IIT  Jodhpur  if  satisfactory  report  and  if  test  results  are
unsatisfactory than testing charges shall be deducted from bills of contractor. All other expenditure to
be incurred for taking sample, conveyance, packing etc. shall be borne by the contractor.
The contractor shall submit a detailed program of work within 7 days of the date of award of work.
The Engineer – in- Charge can modify the program and the contractors have to work accordingly.
The contractor shall make his own arrangement for getting the permission with respect to trucks from
the Traffic Police.
44.  No  payment  shall  be  made  to  contractor  for  any  damage  caused  by  the  rain  or  any  other  natural
causes what so ever during the execution of work.
Some  restrictions  may  be  imposed  by  the  security  staff  of  IIT  Jodhpur  etc.  on  the  working  and  on
movement  of  labour  &  material.  No  labour  camp/  huts  shall  be  allowed  in  IIT  Jodhpur.  The
contractor  shall  make  his  own  arrangement  for  labour  huts  outside  the  campus.  However,
constructions  of  cement  godown  and  Chowkidar’s  hut  in  the  Campus  shall  be  permitted.  The
contractor shall be bound to follow all such restrictions/ instructions and nothing shall be payable on
The contractor shall be fully responsible for the safe custody of the material issued or brought at site
by him for doing the work.
The  Malba  /  Garbage  generated  at  site  due  to  construction  activities  shall  be  removed  from  the  site
immediately  &  shall  be  disposed  off  by  the  contractor  to  the  approved  dumping  site  of  Jodhpur
Municipal Corporation and all statutory approvals from local bodies shall be a sole responsibility of
The contractor shall clean the site thoroughly of scaffolding materials, rubbish, equipment’s left out of
his work & dress the site around the building to the  complete satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge
before the work is treated as completed.
49.  Water charges @ 1% and Electricity charges @ 0.5 % of gross work done shall be deducted from bills of
contractor if electricity and water provided by IIT Jodhpur for this work.
50.  Agency has to take proper safety measures during the execution of work.
IITJ/CPWD  GCC  form  7/8  shall  form  part  of  NIT  and  the  bidder  shall  go  through  GCC  before
quoting rates and the same shall be deemed to be accepted by bidder if he participates in the tender.
ESI  &  EPF  shall  be  reimbursed  as  per  norms  on  production  of  original  receipt  of  ESI  &  EPF  from
contractor specific to this work.
The contractor shall submit the program of execution of work as per clause 5 of IITJ/CPWD GCC form
7/8 of NIT including list of workers to be deployed by contractor for this work.
54.  Contractor  shall be responsible  for  keeping site  free  of any kind  of mosquito breeding. If it is found
that breeding is taking place the entire responsibility shall be of contractor to bear challan etc. done by
55.  All the statutory obligations which is not covered in the bid document shall be reimbursed on actual
basis after submission of proof of payment.
56.  The  rates  for  different  items  of  work  shall  apply  for  all  Heights  &  Depths,  Leads  &  Lifts  unless
otherwise  specified  in  the  agreement  or  specifications  applicable  in  the  agreement.  The  Agency/
Firm must visit site (internal or external) area before quoting rates.
57.  Final payment shall be released only after satisfactory completion of work.
58.  Failure  to  comply  any  of  the  above  clauses  or  due  to  unsatisfactory  performance  as  observed  by
Engineer-in-charge,  the  contract  shall  be  terminated  at  any  stage  without  assigning  any  reason
Additional Terms and Condition
1.  The work will be carried out as per CPWD specification.
2.  All taxes such Income Tax whether applicable or laid by the government after opening the tender shall
be borne by the Agency/ Firm & shall be deducted from the bills of Agency/ Firm.
3.  Failure  to  comply  any  of  the  above  clauses  or  due  to  unsatisfactory  performance  as  observed  by
Engineer-in-charge, the contract shall be terminated at any stage without assigning any reason thereof.
4.  The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for any injury or accident to the labour during execution of work
and claim shall be given by the Agency/ Firm.
5.  Any damage caused to Institute property during execution of work shall be made good by the Agency/
Firm on his own cost.
6.  The Agency/ Firm shall clean the site thoroughly to the entire satisfaction of Engineer-in-charge.
7.  The  Agency/  Firm  /  his  supervisor  will  be  bound  to  signature  the  site  order  book  &  carry  out
instructions giving their in.
8.  The  rates  quoted  by  the  Agency/  Firm  shall  be  taken  as  net  and  nothing  extra  shall  be  paid  on  any
account i.e. Royalty, Cartage, Sales Tax & stacking of material required at places etc.
9.  The  rates  for  different  items  of  work  shall  apply  for  all  Heights  &  Depths,  Leads  &  Lifts  unless
otherwise specified in the agreement or specifications applicable in the agreement. The Agency/ Firm
must visit site (internal or external) area before quoting rates.
10.  All  the  statutory  obligations  which  is  not  covered  in  the  bid  document  shall  be  reimbursed  on  actual
basis after submission of proof of payment.
11.  18% GST has been considered in this work. The quoted rates must be inclusive of 18% GST.
Special Conditions of BOQ: -
1.  The contractor must visit the site of work /buildings before quoting the rates.
2.  No labour to stay in IIT Campus nothing shall be paid extra on this account.
3.  Site shall be made available as and when available.
4.  Scaffolding, Jhula, ladders etc. to carryout works at all heights/Lifts shall be arranged by the
contractor at his own cost. Nothing extra shall be paid on these accounts .
5.  Site shall be available in parts or phases as per directions of Engineer in Charge and nothing extra
on this account shall be paid to the Contractor.
6.  Rate quoted by the contractor shall be inclusive of GST, ESI & EPF.
LIST OF APPROVED MATERIALS:
Civil Item make list:
WONDER, ACC, ULTRATECH, BIRLA, AMBUJA
White Portland Cement
BIRLA WHITE, JK WHITE, ACC
Oil Bound Washable Distemper
JONSON & NICHOLSON, BERGER PAINTS, ASIAN PAINT,
JONSON & NICHOLSON, BERGER PAINTS, ASIAN PAINT,
Premium Acrylic Emulsion Paints
JONSON & NICHOLSON, BERGER PAINTS, ASIAN PAINT,
BERGER, ASIAN, ICI
AKZONOBEL, NEROLAC, ASIAN PAINTS
AKZONOBEL, NEROLAC, ASIAN PAINTS (WHITE)
Textured Exterior Paint
(APEX  WITH  HONEYCOMBROLLER
FINISH)  ICI  (WEATHER  SHIELD  WITH  HONEYCOMB
ASIAN, ICI, KANSAI NEROLAC,BERGER
Water Proofing Cement Paint
ASIAN PAINTS, SNOWCEM INDIA LTD. BERGER PAINTS
Synthetic Enamel Paint
BERGER, ASIAN PAINTS, ICI, J&N,NEROLAC
NITCO, SOMANY, HINDWARE,KAJARIA, RAK,
Ceramic Floor Tiles/Wall Tiles
NITCO, SOMANY, HINDWARE,KAJARIA, RAK,
White Glazed Tiles
NITCO, SOMANY, HINDWARE,KAJARIA, RAK,
Anodized Aluminum Hardware
EVERITE, KINLONG, ALUALPHA by LGF Sysmac,
GODREJ, DORMA, DORSET, HAFELE,KICH,ARCH,KAFF
Float Glass, Reflective Glass, Mirror
MODI GUARD, SAINT GOBAIN,TATA-ASHAI, HNG, AIS-
Hardware, Patch Fittings and
HETTICH, DORMA, ALUALPHA by LGF Sysmac, DORSET
Floor Spring for Aluminum Doors  HARDWYN, GODREJ, DORMA,DORSET
JINDAL, TATA, PRAKASH SURYA
Silicone Sealant / Sealant
G.E, DOW CORNING, WACKER, SIKA,BECKER
Hermitically sealed performance
(MODI  GUARD,  SAINT
glass Toughened Glass, DGU
HANU, OSAKA, ALPS
HILTI, FISCHER, BOSCH, WuRTH
BIRLA  WALL  CARE,  JK  WHITE,  Ferrouscrete,  Bison  Wall
TATA, UNIK, ZOLOTO
HDPE Pipes and Fittings
RELIANCE, JAINPIPES, ORIPLAST,DUTRON, SUPREME
RBA FERRO, WALTZER, KAJECO,NECO, SKF
LK, LEADER, ZOLOTO
Centrifugally Cast (spun) Iron Pipes
NECO, KAPILANSH, ELECTROSTEEL,SKF, BIC(Bengal Iron
Centrifugally Cast (spun) Iron (Class
NECO, KAPILANSH, ELECTROSTEEL,BIC(Bengal Iron Corp.)
C.I. Manhole covers, frames and GI
RBA  FERRO,  WALTZER,  KAJECO,NECO,  SKF,  BIC(Bengal
SFRC Manhole covers and gratings  KK, JAIN, PARGATI
Gun metal Valves , globes
LEADER, ZOLOTO, LK,
CP Brass Fittings
JAQUAR, KOHLER, GROHE,AMERICAN STANDARD
Sanitary Fittings and Accessories
JAQUAR, KOHLER, GROHE,AMERICAN STANDARD
Brass ball valve
LEADER, ZOLOTO, LK, SANT
Non Return valve (Check valve)
LEADER, ZOLOTO, LK
Bronze Gate Valve
LEADER, ZOLOTO, LK, SANT
European  WC,  Indian  WC,  Cistern,
JAQUAR, HINDWARE, KOHLER
Washbasin, Urinals, WC seat cover
,Rigid/Flexible connector pipe
Jayaswal-Neco,  MOLI  CERAMICS,
Ball Valves /in Built Filter
RAPID  CONTROL,  CIM,  SKS,  L&T  VALVES.  LEADER,
Stainless Steel Sink
KIRLOSKAR, CASTLE, KSB, LEADER, ZOLOTO
EURONICS, HINDWARE, JAQUAR
NEELKANTH, NIRALI, JAYNA
JINDAL, HINDALCO, INDALCO,HINDUSTAN
GREENPLY,GREENLAM, CENTURYPLY, MERINO
Board/Particle board/BWP marine
Flush Door Shutter
CENTURY  DOORS,  DURO,  SWASTIK,  A1WOODEN/A-
Reinforced Bars(TMT) and
False Ceiling tiles
PVC Waste Pipe
Bamboo Wooden flooring
Karra décor Pvt. Ltd., Inovar Fllor India Pvt. Ltd. Or
Woodworks perforated panels
Armstrong, Ideatec, Topakustic,Anutone,Fantoni
Metal False Ceiling
Armstrong, Metallica Ceiling Solution, Hunter Doglus, Saint
Kirloskar or equivalent
CPVC pipes and fitting
Plasto, Supreme, Finolex, Astral
uPVC pipes and fittings
Plasto, Supreme, Finolex, Astral,Prince
Unplasticised Rigid PVC pipes
Plasto, Supreme, Finolex, Astral
Water Tank (6Layer)
PVC mosquito net
Plasto , Sintex,
Hardware for uPVC door and
Hydraulic Door Closer
Stainless Steel Grade 304 railing
Ductile Iron Pipes
Tile and stone adhesive, Grouting
Pidilite, Bal Endura, Fosroc, Ferrouscrete
G.I. barbed wire
Electrical Item make list:
LT panels / boards, Feeder
MCB, ELCB, RCCB, DB and
RCBO. Distribution board shall be
of the same make of MCB, ELCB,
RCCB, DB and RCBO.
LT cables, 1.1 KV grade
FRLS copper wires and cables, 1.1
Switch Socket accessories.
Lugs and Ferrules
Brass Compression Gland (Heavy
MILESTONE, TRICOLITE, ADLEC, ADVANCE PANEL
& SWITCHGEAR Ltd., PRISTINE, STERLING
GENERATOR, APPLICATION CONTROL PANEL,
ENGINEERS & ENGINEERS.
SIEMENS (BETA GUARD), L&T(AU), SCHNEIDER
(ACTI 9), LEGRAND (DX 3), HAGER
SIEMENS (BETA GUARD), L&T(AU), SCHNEIDER
(ACTI 9), LEGRAND (DX 3), HAGER
UNISTAR, NATIONAL, RALLISON, KEI, HAVELLS
POLYCAB, RR KABEL
UNISTAR, NATIONAL, RALLISON, KEI, HAVELLS,
POLYCAB, RR KABEL
LEGRAND (ARTEOR), SCHNEIDER (ZENCELO), MK
(ELEMENTS), HAGER (INSYSTA), CRABTREE
COMMEX, GRIPWELL, HENSEL, DOWELL
Havells (Plantina), Crompton (Hiflo wave plus), Bajaj
(Esteem), USHA (Max Air), Orient (Wall 47), Almonard.
LED LIGHT FIXTURE (INDOOR)  PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, SCHREDER,
DOWELL, ASIAN, ACTION
Cable Lugs & Thimbles
Telephone Tag Blocks with boxes   KRONE, POUYET
PVC Conduits and Accessories
(ISI Marked, Heavy duty)
MS Conduit and Pipes
MS Conduit Accessories (Heavy
Pipes and Accessories (ISI)
Street /landscape & LED Light
BEC, PRECISION, POLY-PACK, POLYCAB,
BEC, AKG, M-KAY, STEEL CRAFT
BEC, AKG, M-KAY, STEEL CRAFT.
TATA, JINDAL, SAIL
SIGNIFY, CROMPTON, WIPRO, HAVELLS, SCHREDER,
LIGHTING TECHNOLOGIES, MUSCO, HALLIDAY,
PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ,
LED Chip for Street /landscape
and LED Light Fixtures
EXIT and Emergency Lights
Photo Chromatic Switch
Change Over Switch
Timers & Contactors to be
mounted in DB’s
MV Contactors/Timer/ Starters
kWh Meters (Electronic Digital
type) /Multifunction Meter
Indication Lamps/Push Button
PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, PROLITE
Tyco, Commscope, R&M, Molex, Panduit, Schneider
RISHAB – L&T, KAYCEE, SIEMENS, C&S,ABB
BAJAJ, WIPRO, PHILIPS
CROMPTON, AREVA, SIEMENS, KIRLOSKAR
BCH, INDUSTRIAL CONTROL, JAINSON
L&T, SOCOMEC, SIEMENS, HAGER,ABB
JINDAL, INDALCO, CENTURY
JINDAL, TATA, SAIL
L&T, SIEMENS, SCHNEIDER, HAGER, LEGRAND
L&T, SIEMENS, SCHNEIDER, LEGRAND, ABB
AREVA, SIEMENS, L&T
SCHNEIDER(CONZERV), C&S, L&T, SIEMENS,
L&T, BCH, GE
CROMPTON GREAVES, ORIENT, HAVELLS, UHSA,
MEM, PROFAB, RICO, INDIATECH, RMCON,
LEGRAND, MK, SCHNEIDER
HENSEL, CLIPSAL, MENEKKES
HILTI, FISCHER, BOSCH, WUNH
FINOLEX, HAVELLS, BELDON
LEGRAND, HAVELLS, HAGER, INDOASIAN,
JEF ECOSAFE, ERICO, TEREC PLUS
TIRUPATI, GEMINI, REX ,TRICOLITE
SCHNEIDER, VERTIV, SOCOMEC, NUMERIC, ABB,
Sealed Maintenance free Batteries   EXIDE, QUANTA AMARON, INNER ROCKET,
Polycarbonate Junction Boxes
Metal MCB’s enclosure
Street Light GRP Poles
SCHREDER, PHILIPS, BAJAJ, CREATIVE COMPOSITE,
PU paints on street light GRP
AZKO NOBEL, ASIAN
Note: Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to add or delete any material and brands in the
list of preferred material/brands on the recommendation of Engineer-In –charge.
SCOPE OF WORK:
The work shall be carried out as per CPWD Specifications, relevant IS Codes, and directions of the Engineer-
in-Charge. The scope of work includes:
1 Earthwork & Foundations
• Excavation in all kinds of soil including disposal of surplus earth.
• PCC and RCC work up to plinth level as per drawings and specifications.
• Random rubble masonry in foundation and plinth.
2. Structural & Steel Works
• Steel reinforcement cutting, bending, placing and binding.
• Structural steel fabrication and erection including connections.
• RCC works as per approved structural drawings.
3. Superstructure & Masonry
• Brick masonry in superstructure with proper bonding and alignment.
• Lintels, bands and RCC elements above plinth level.
• Curing, finishing and making good the masonry works.
4. Electrical Installation Works
• Supply and laying of wiring in approved conduits.
• Fixing of switches, sockets, boards, and accessories.
• Testing, commissioning and earthing of all electrical points.
Note: The scope of work is indicative and includes all operations, materials, labour, tools, plants, scaffolding,
transportation,  and  incidentals  required  to  complete  the  work  in  all  respects  as  per  specifications  and
directions of the Engineer-in-Charge, even if not specifically mentioned herein.
Schedule of Quantities
S.No.Item DescriptionUnitTotal QuantityItem RateTotal Amount(Rs.)Earth work in excavation by mechanical means (Hydraulic excavator)/ manual means over areas (exceeding 30 cm in depth, 1.5 m in width as well as 10 sqm on plan) including getting out and disposal of excavated earth lead upto 50 m and for all lift, as directed by Engineer-in-charge.All kinds of soilcum219.12177.5038893.80Providing and laying in position cement concrete of specified grade excluding the cost of centering and shuttering - All work up to plinth level :1:4:8 (1 Cement : 4 coarse sand (zone-III) derived from natural sources : 8 graded stone aggregate 40 mm nominal cum21.916812.00149264.54Providing and laying in position ready mixed or site batched design mix cement concrete for reinforced cement concrete work; using coarse aggregate and fine aggregate derived from natural sources, Portland Pozzolana / Ordinary Portland /Portland Slag cement, admixtures in recommended proportions as per IS: 9103 to accelerate / retard setting of concrete, to improve durability and workability without impairing strength; including pumping of concrete to site of laying, curing, carriage for all leads; but excluding the cost of centering, shuttering,finishing and reinforcement as per direction of the engineer-in-charge; for the following grades of concrete:All works upto plinth level-Concrete of M25 grade with minimum cement content of 330 kg /cumcum73.559504.75699060.61Centering and shuttering including strutting, propping etc. and removal of form for : i) Foundations, footings, bases of columns, etc. for massconcretesqm208.59392.1581798.02Random rubble masonry with hard stone in foundation and plinth including levelling up with cement concrete 1:6:12 (1 cement : 6 coarse sand : 12 graded stone aggregate 20 mm nominal size) upto plinth level with :Cement mortar 1:6 (1 cement : 6 coarse sand)cum81.437311.25595336.81Steel reinforcement for R.C.C. work including straightening, cutting, bending, placing in  position and binding all complete upto plinth level.Thermo-Mechanically Treated bars of grade Fe-500D or more.kg7711.33107.85831666.49Steel work in built up tubular (round, square or rectangular hollow tubes etc.) trusses etc., including cutting, hoisting, fixing in position and applying a priming coat of approved steel primer, including welding and bolted with special shaped washers etc. complete. i) Hot finished welded type tubeskg22073.86194.404291158.13     DRDO Workshop at IIT Jodhpur (Civil Work)                                           1234567
S.No.Item DescriptionUnitTotal QuantityItem RateTotal Amount(Rs.)Brick work with common burnt clay F.P.S. (non modular) bricks of class designation 7.5 in superstructure above plinth level up to floor V level in all shapes and sizes in :Cement mortar 1:4 (1 cement : 4 coarse sand)cum22.019344.35205678.499Providing and fixing precoated galvanised iron profile sheets (size, shape and pitch ofcorrugation as approved by Engineer-in-Charge) of total coated thickness 0.50mm (basemetal of minimum 0.45mm thickness with total coating thickness of 0.05mm) with zinc coating120 grams per sqm as per IS: 277, in 240 mpa steel grade, 5-7 microns epoxy primer on both side of the sheet and polyester top coat 15-18 microns. Sheet should have protective guard film of 25 microns minimum to avoid scratches during transportation and should be supplied in single length upto 12 metre or as desired by Engineer-in-charge. The sheet shall be fixed using self drilling /self tapping screws of size (5.5x 55 mm) with EPDM seal, complete upto any pitch in horizontal/ vertical or curved surfaces, excluding the cost of purlins, rafters and trusses and including cutting to size and shape wherever required.sqm515.97738.65381120.32Providing and fixing precoated galvanised steel sheet roofing accessories 0.50 mm (+0.05 %) total coated thickness, Zinc coating 120 gramsper sqm as per IS: 277, in 240 mpa steel grade, 5-7 microns epoxy primer on both side of the sheet and polyester top coat 15-18 microns using self drilling/ self tapping screws complete :Ridges plain (500 - 600mm)m121.83532.3564853.54Painting with synthetic enamel paint of approved brand and manufacture to give an even shade : i) Two or more coats on new worksqm687.15155.90107126.91Providing and laying in position cement concrete of specified grade excluding the cost of centering and shuttering - All work up to plinth level :1:3:6 (1 Cement : 3 coarse sand (zone-III) derived from natural sources : 6 graded stone aggregate 40 mm nominal size derived from natural sources)cum3.837178.7527488.15Providing and laying in position ready mixed or site batched design mix cement concrete for reinforced cement concrete work; using coarse aggregate and fine aggregate derived from natural sources, Portland Pozzolana / Ordinary Portland /Portland Slag cement, admixtures in recommended proportions as per IS: 9103 to accelerate / retard setting of concrete, to improve durability and workability without impairing strength; including pumping of concrete to site of laying, curing, carriage for all leads; but excluding the cost of centering, shuttering,finishing and reinforcement as per direction of the engineer-in-charge; for the following grades of concrete:All works upto plinth level-Concrete of M30 grade with minimum cement content of 350 kg /cumcum19.709655.70190195.0814Providing & fixing roof top wind driven turbo ventilator of approved make and size including base frame, flashing, cutting of sheet, sealing and fixing complete as directed by Engineer-in-Charge.each4.007126.9628507.84₹ 76,63,640.90₹ 74,56,722.59₹ 28,507.84₹ 74,85,230.4310111213Total (Schedule Items) = (A)Correction Factor on total DSR items as per CPWD Latest OM @0.973 on A = (B)Total Amount(B+C)=     DRDO Workshop at IIT Jodhpur (Civil Work)                                           Non DSRTotal (Non Scheduled Items) = (C)8
Electrical schedule of quantities---
1  Wiring for light point/ fan point/ exhaust fan
point/ call bell point with 1.5 sq.mm FRLS/
HFFR PVC insulated copper conductor single
core cable in surface/ recessed medium class
PVC conduit, with modular switch, modular
plate, suitable GI box and earthing the point
with 1.5 sq.mm FRLS/HFFR PVC insulated
copper conductor single core cable etc. as
1.1  Group C
2  Wiring for circuit/ submain wiring along with
earth wire with the following sizes of
FRLS/HFFR PVC insulated copper conductor,
single core cable in surface/ recessed medium
class PVC conduit as required.
2 X 4 sq. mm + 1 X 4 sq. mm earth wire
4 X 10 sq. mm + 2 X 6 sq. mm earth wire
Supplying and fixing following modular
switch / socket on the existing modular plate
& switch box including connections but
excluding modular plate etc. as required.
15/16 A switch
6 pin 15/16 A socket outlet
Supplying and fixing following size/ modules,
GI box along with modular base & cover plate
for modular switches in recess etc. as required.
3 Module (100mmX75mm)
8 Module (125mmX125mm)
Supplying and fixing following way,
horizontal type three pole and neutral, sheet
steel, MCB distribution board, 415 V, on
surface/ recess, complete with tinned copper
bus bar, neutral bus bar, earth bar, din bar,
interconnections, powder painted including
earthing etc. as required. (But without
6 way (4 + 18), Double door
Supplying and fixing 5 A to 32 A rating, 240/
415 V, 10 kA, "C" curve, miniature circuit
breaker suitable for inductive load of following
poles in the existing MCB DB complete with
connections, testing and commissioning etc. as
LED Batten light (System lumen efficacy ≥105
Supplying, Installation, Testing &
Commissioning of LED surface mounted
Batten light of following body material and
construction as per IS : 10322 with driver
(Replaceable) as per the requirement with
Driver efficiency >85%, Operating voltage AC
140-270 Volt, frequency 50/60 hz, Operating
temp range -5 °C to 40 °C, internal surge
protection of 2.5 KV with Short & Open circuit
protection, THD < 10%, P.F.≥0.95, IP20, CRI
>80, Flicker free, (flicker should be below 5 %),
life time (LED, Driver & electrical circuitry), of
minimum 50000 Burning Hours with 70% of
initial Lumen maintained till life ends, CCT
3000°K / 4000°K / 5700°K /6500°K (As per
ANSI Bin), SDCM(Standard Deviation
Colour Matching) <3, Maximum power
consumption should not more than the
specified rating and Fixture shall be of relevant
BIS standard. Manufactures Word Mark/
Name Engraved/ Embossing/ Screen printing
on housing. complete in all respect i/c external
connections with 1.5 sq mm FRLS/HFFR, PVC
insulated copper conductor single core cable
and earthing etc. as required with Minimum 5
year OEM warranty. System lumen efficacy
≥105 <120 lm/Watt output . LM79 & LM80
Test report and all testing required for LED
fixtures as per BIS shall be submitted. Shape
size and CCT shall be as approved by
Engineer-in-Charge as per requirement.
(Thermal management: heat sink of aluminium
housing such that LED junction temperature
shall not rise above 90°C).
Powder coated die cast /Extruded aluminium
Body (Thickness > 1.20 mm)
7.1.1  18- 22 Watt
Supply and making end termination with brass
compression gland and aluminium lugs for
following size of PVC insulated and PVC
sheathed / XLPE aluminium conductor cable
of 1.1 KV grade etc as required.
3½ X 120 sq. mm (45mm)
Laying of one number PVC insulated and PVC
sheathed / XLPE power cable of 1.1 KV grade
of following size in the existing masonry open
duct as required.
9.1  Above 95 sq. mm and upto 185 sq. mm
Earthing with G.I. earth plate 600 mm X 600
mm X 6 mm thick including accessories, and
providing masonry enclosure with cover plate
having locking arrangement and watering pipe
of 2.7 Meter long etc. with charcoal/ coke and
salt as required.
Providing and fixing 25 mm X 5 mm G.I. strip
in 40 mm dia G.I. pipe from earth electrode
including connection with G.I. nut, bolt,
spring, washer excavation and re-filling etc. as
Providing and fixing 25 mm X 5 mm G.I. strip
on surface or in recess for connections etc. as
Supplying of 3.5 core 120 sqmm Aluminium
conductor, PVC sheathed, XLPE armoured
cable, Extruded PVC Type ST2 Outer Sheathed,
1.1KV grade as per IS 7098 (Part 1) including
connection, testing and commissioning etc as
Supplying and fixing of Heavy-duty exhaust
fan, 230 mm, single phase, 1350 RPM, Air
delivery- 500-510cum/hr, 40-45watt, 50Hz,
double ball bearing, Energy efficient motor
including connection, testing and
commissioning etc as required. (Havells Ventil
Air DSP or equivalent in Crompton or usha).
Supplying, Installation, testing and
commissioning of wall mounted fan of
required specification 400mm sweep, 55-
65Watt, Air delivery >65CMM, heavy duty PP
blade, copper winding, two string for speed &
oscillation, complete including connection etc
Make: Havells Platina wall fan/ Crompton
Greaves Hiflo wave plus/ Bajaj esteem/
equivalent model in Usha/ Orient/Almonard.
Fabrication, supply, installation, testing and
commissioning of indoor type feeder pillar/LT
panel of suitable size shall be made of 2mm
thick CRCA sheet, floor mounted, vermin
proof, weather proof, Each compartment with
lock arrangement & openable from front side,
painted internally and externally with powder
coated of approved shade after seven tank
treatment process  over a coat of red oxide
primer etc. complete in all respect with
following incoming and outgoing with
individual compartment, suitable for operation
on 415V, 3 Phase+N, 50 Hz AC supply
including PCC/RCC structure foundation
having the following features-
(i) Incoming compartment having 150A, 25kA,
4P  MCCB,  Ics  100%  of  Icu  ratting  -  1  nos.
(ii)  Outgoing  compartments  63A,  25KA,  4P
aluminium/copper  bus  bar  of  suitable  length
(iv)  R/Y/B/ON/OFF/TRIP  indicating  LED
control  MCB  of  2A  SP.
(v) Multifunction meter (96 x 96 mm) Class 1.0
accuracy  with  RS  485  Port,  measuring  amps,
voltage,  KWH,  KVAH  etc  -  01  Nos  (For
(vi)  Suitable  number  of  punch  holes  for  cable
entry  from  bottom  and  top  side  of  the  panel.
NOTE: RCC Foundation work and DWC Pipe
for  cable  entry  etc  are  included  in  the
estimate.  No  separate  cost  shall  be  paid  for
Supplying  and  fixing  of  following  modules
sheet  steel  MCB  enclosure  on  surface/  recess
etc as required.
17.1  TPN MCB enclosure.
Supplying and fixing 63 A rating, 415 V, 10 kA,
"C" curve, miniature circuit breaker suitable for
existing  MCB  DB  complete  with  connections,
testing and commissioning etc. as required.
load  of  following  poles
18.1  Triple pole and neutral
Total amount inclusive of all taxes Rs.
JE(Civil-III)            JE(Electrical)                 AEE(Civil-I)           AEE(Electrical)                EE(Civil)                 SE
Name of the Bidder/ Bidding Firm / Company :NUMBER #TEXT #NUMBER #TEXT #NUMBERNUMBER #TEXT #Sl.No.Item DescriptionQuantityUnitsEstimated Rate inRs.      P (including GST)TOTAL AMOUNT  including Taxes inRs.      PTOTAL AMOUNT In Words12345671.01Construction of DRDO Lab Facility at IIT Jodhpur1.000each8279319.008279319.00INR  Eighty Two Lakh Seventy Nine Thousand Three Hundred & Nineteen  OnlyTotal in Figures8279319.00INR  Eighty Two Lakh Seventy Nine Thousand Three Hundred & Nineteen  OnlyQuoted Rate in FiguresSelect0.00INR Zero OnlyQuoted Rate in WordsPRICE SCHEDULE(This BOQ template must not be modified/replaced by the bidder and the same should be uploaded after filling the relevent columns, else the bidder is liable to be rejected for this tender. Bidders are allowed to enter the Bidder Name and Values only )INR Zero OnlyPercentage BoQTender Inviting Authority: Superintending Engineer ,OIE-IIT JodhpurName of Work: Construction of DRDO Lab Facility at IIT JodhpurContract No:   IITJ/OIE/2025-26/42ValidatePrintHelp