INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
Program Course Curriculum
Department of Mathematics
Department of Mathematics
Cat.	Course	Number,	Course	Title
C	 MAL7XX0	Foundations	of	Data
Cat.	Course	Number,	Course	Title	 L-T-
C	 CSL7XX0	 Deep	Learning
C	 CSL7XX0	 Machine	Learning	 3-0-0
C	 MAL7XX0	Data	Analytics
NG1	HSN7XX0	 Technical
NG2	HSN7XX0	 Professional
Computational	Game	Theory
Natural	Language	Understanding
Time	Series	Analysis
Graph	Theory	and	Applications
Algorithm	for	Big	Data
Digital	Image	Analysis
Quantum	Cryptography	and	Coding
Quantum	Inspired	Optimization
Course	Category	Title
Total	Courses	Total
Note: 1. The department should retain only the relevant courses as electives for the M.Tech. program. The courses
that are either irrelevant or not attracting more than 10 students should be removed from the PG booklet.
Course (Credit) Requirements for PhD students
Minimum courses required
M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc.
(Engineering) in an
M.Sc. degree  in a Science
B.Tech., B.S., B.E. or B.Sc.
(Engineering)  in an
M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil.
degree in a Science,
Humanities or Social Science
As per approved norms after
2 years of Masters degree in
4 Compulsory (Same as
M.Tech. Compulsory) + 4
4 Compulsory (Same as
M.Tech. Compulsory) + 4
1.  Departments can design various sets of compulsory courses based on their research themes. These courses
can either be existing ones or new courses introduced by the department.
2.  The four compulsory courses account for a minimum of 12 credits as per the current regulations.
3.  Direct Ph.D. students holding a B.Tech. degree can choose to pursue an additional M.Tech. degree by
fulfilling the M.Tech. thesis requirements. The M.Tech. thesis work must be separate from the Ph.D. thesis.
The additional degree will be awarded alongside the Ph.D. degree only upon the completion of the Ph.D.
Content of Core courses:
Foundations of Data Science
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide an understanding statistical concepts for data scientist.
2.  Train the student to do Matrix Computations for implementing various numerical linear
3.  Train student in the domain of linear and non-linear programming.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
4.  Derive distributional results needed for the statistical hypothesis testing and perform
the hypothesis testing for the parameters of the normal population.
5.  Understand the numerical linear algebraic methods and their usage for data analysis.
6.  Apply programming concepts for further applications in different areas of interest.
Probability  Models  and  Sampling    Techniques  [3  Lectures]:  Normal,  Chi-Square  and  t
distributions,  Basic  concepts  of  random  sampling,  sampling  from  normal  distribution,
properties of sample mean and sample variance.
Estimation  [5  Lectures]:  Problem  of  point  estimation,  Unbiased  estimation,  Maximum
likelihood estimators, Shortest length confidence intervals for mean and variance of normal
Tests  of  Hypotheses  [5  Lectures]:  Basic  concepts  of  statistical  hypotheses  testing,  critical
regions, Type-I and Type-II errors, size and power of a test, tests for one-sample and two-
sample problems from normal populations.
Matrix  Algebra  [3  Lectures]:  Matrix  operations  and  type  of  matrices,  Rank  of  Matrix,
Eigenvalues, Eigenvectors and Diagonalizable matrices, Vector Norms, Matrix Norms.
Decompositions [8 Lectures]: Spectral decomposition, Schur Decomposition, QR Factorization,
Singular value decomposition (SVD), Polar Decomposition, Pseudo Inverse.
Approximations [2 Lectures]: Least square approximations, Low-Rank Approximation.
Unconstrained Optimization [7 Lectures]: Convex set, Convex function, First and second order
conditions, Gradient descent method, Application in linear and nonlinear regression
Constrained Optimization [6 Lectures]: Karush-Kuhn-Tucker conditions, Lagrange multiplier
method, Interior point method, Application in SVM.
1.  Casella, G. and Berger, R. (2002), Statistical Inference, Cengage Learning.
2.  Ross, S.M. (1996), Stochastic Processes, Wiley.
3.  Mayer, C.D. (2000) Matrix Analysis and Applied Linear Algebra, SIAM.
4.  Kambo, N. S., Mathematical Programming Techniques,  Second Edition, Affiliated East
West Press, 2005
5.  Beck,  Amir:  First-order  methods  in  optimization.  Society  for  Industrial  and  Applied
1.  Rohatgi, V.K. and Saleh, A.K.M.E. (2018). An Introduction to Probability and Statistics,
2.  Ross, S.M. (2010). An Introduction to Probability Models, Elsevier.
3.  M    Goloub, G.H. and Charles, F.V.L. (2013) Matrix Computations, JHU Press.
4.  Lancaster, P. and Tismenetsky, M. (1985) The Theory of Matrices: With Applications,
5.  Bazaraa, M. S., Sherali, H.D., and Shetty, C. M., Nonlinear Programming: Theory and
Algorithms, Third Edition, Wiley publications, 2006
Online course Material
1.  Agrawal,  P.N.,  Numerical  Linear  Algebra,  NPTEL  course  material,    Department  of
2.  Goswami  A.,  Chakraborty  D.,  Optimization,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Introduction  to  Computer  Sc.,  Probability,
Statistics  and  Stochastic  Processes,  Linear
1.  To understand various key paradigms for machine learning approaches
2.  To  familiarize  with  the  mathematical  and  statistical  techniques  used  in  machine
3.  To understand and differentiate among various machine learning techniques.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  To formulate a machine learning problem
2.  Select an appropriate pattern analysis tool for analyzing data in a given feature space.
3.  Apply pattern recognition and machine learning techniques such as classification and
feature selection to practical applications and detect patterns in the data.
Introduction [6 Lectures]: Definitions, Datasets for Machine Learning, Different Paradigms of
Data  Normalization,  Hypothesis  Evaluation,  VC-Dimensions  and  Distribution,  Bias-Variance
Tradeoff, Regression (Linear)
Bayes Decision Theory [5 Lectures]: Bayes decision rule, Minimum error rate classification,
Normal density and discriminant functions
Parameter Estimation [2 Lectures]: Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian Parameter Estimation
Discriminative Methods [5 Lectures]: Distance-based methods, Linear Discriminant Functions,
Decision Tree, Random Decision Forest and Boosting
Feature Selection and Dimensionality Reduction [4 Lectures]: PCA, LDA, ICA, SFFS, SBFS
Clustering [4 Lectures]: k-means clustering, Gaussian Mixture Modeling, EM-algorithm
Kernel Machines [5 Lectures]: Kernel Tricks, SVMs (primal and dual forms), K-SVR, K-PCA
Artificial Neural Networks [4 Lectures]: MLP , Backprop, and RBF-Net
Foundations of Deep Learning [4 lectures]: DNN, CNN, Autoencoders
1.  Shalev-Shwartz,S.,  Ben-David,S.,  (2014),  Understanding  Machine  Learning:  From
Theory to Algorithms, Cambridge University Press
2.  R. O. Duda, P . E. Hart, D. G. Stork (2000), Pattern Classification, Wiley-Blackwell, 2nd
1.  Mitchell Tom (1997). Machine Learning, Tata McGraw-Hill
2.  C. M. BISHOP (2006), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer-Verlag New
York, 1st Edition.
Online course Material
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the basics of data science and its underlying concepts.
2.  Introduce data processing, manipulation and cleaning techniques.
3.  Enable students to be able to analyze the data using R.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Acquire familiarity with the basic concepts of data science.
2.  Distinguish between different kinds of data and data governance.
3.  Understand the preparation and processing of the data.
4.  Comprehend What R is and how it’s used to perform data analysis.
Data  Analysis  [12  Lectures]:  Data  preparation,  Data  pre-processing,  Data  Cleaning,  Data
Integration, Data Transformation, Data Reduction, Redundancy Removal, Data storage, Data
Handling, Querying Data, Data Representation and Exploration, Big Data.
Central  tendency  of  data  and  Variation  in  data  [7  Lectures]:  Arithmetic  Mean,  Median,
Quantiles,  Mode,  Geometric  Mean  and  Harmonic  Mean,  Range,  Interquartile  Range  and
Quartile  Deviation,  Absolute  Deviation  and  Absolute  Mean  Deviation,  Mean  Squared  Error,
Variance and Standard Deviation, Coefficient of Variation and Boxplots.
Moments,  Association  of  Variables  [7  Lectures]:  Central  Moments,  Absolute  Moments  and
Computation  of  Moments,  Skewness  and  Kurtosis,  Univariate  and  Bivariate  Scatter  Plots,
Quantile  in  3D  plots,  Correlation  Coefficient,  Rank  Correlation  Coefficient,  Measure  of
Association for Discrete and Counting Variables, Least Squares Method.
Lab using R: Implementation of concepts learnt using R.
1.  Kotu,  V.  and  Deshpande,  B.  (2018)  Data  Science:  Concepts  and  Practice,  Morgan
2.  Saltz, J.S. and Stanton, J.M. (2017) An Introduction to Data Science, SAGE Publications.
3.  Wickham, H. and Grolemund, G. (2016) R for Data Science: Import, Tidy, Transform,
Visualize, and Model Data, 'O'Reilly Media, Inc.
4.  Toomey, D. (2014) R for Data Science, Packt Publishing Ltd.
1.  Kelleher, J.D., and Tierney, B. (2018) Data Science, MIT Press.
2.  Moreira,  J.,  Carvalho,  A.  and  Horvath,  T.  (2018)  A  General  Introduction  to  Data
Analytics, John Wiley & Sons.
3.  Mayer-Schonberger, V. and Cukier, K., (2013) Big data: The essential guide to work,
life and learning in the age of insight, John Murray Publications.
4.  Knell, R.J. (2014) Introductory R: A Beginner’s Guide to Data Visualization
Online course Material
Prerequisite  Machine Learning
Computer Science and Engineering
1.  Provide  technical  details  about  various  recent  algorithms  and  software  platforms
related to Machine Learning with specific focus on Deep Learning.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design  and  program  eﬃcient  algorithms  related  to  recent  machine  learning  techniques,  train
models, conduct experiments, and develop real-world DL-based applications and products
Deep Networks [7 Lectures]: CNN, RNN, LSTM, Attention layers, Applications
Techniques to improve deep networks [6 Lectures]: DNN Optimization, Regularization, AutoML
Representation  Learning  [7  Lectures]:  Unsupervised  pre-training,  transfer  learning,  and
domain adaptation, distributed representation, discovering underlying causes
Auto-DL  [6  Lectures]:  Neural  architecture  search,  network  compression,  graph  neural
networks (6 lectures)
Probabilistic Generative Models [3 Lectures]: DBN, RBM
Deep  Generative  Models  [10  Lectures]:  Encoder-Decoder,  Variational  Autoencoder,
Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), Deep Convolutional GAN, Variants and Applications of
1.  Goodfellow,I., Bengio.,Y., and Courville,A., (2016), Deep Learning, The MIT Press
1.  Charniak, E. (2019), Introduction to deep learning, The MIT Press.
2.   Research literature.
Online course Material
Content of Elective courses:
The Instructor will:
1.  Securities  Pricing  Securities,  Risk  Management  Assessment,  prediction  and  decision
making, under uncertainty, regarding future events and their consequences
2.  Portfolio Optimization Balancing risk and return
3.  Modeling Pricing of derivatives and Itos calculus
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Valuation of financial portfolio
2.  Pricing of financial derivatives (options and contracts)
3.  Understanding risk and return
[18 lectures] Introduction to financial markets and financial instruments, financial derivatives,
risk and return, risky and risk free assets, interest rates, bonds, bonds pricing, spot and forward
rates,  investment  portfolio,  mean-variance  analysis,  capital  asset  pricing  model,  arbitrage
[21 lectures] Discrete time models, stock and money market models, principle of no arbitrage,
pricing of contracts (forward and future), options, put-call parity, option pricing, martingales,
Binomial model, CRR model, Black-Scholes formula, Greeks, random walk, Brownian motion,
stochastic process, Itos integral and Ito-Deoblins formula.
1.  M.  Capinski  and  T.  Zastawniak  (2010).  Mathematics  for  finance:  an  introduction  to
financial engineering, Springer.
2.  S.N. Neftci (2009). Principles of financial engineering. Academic Press/Elsevier.
1.  J.C. Hull (2011). Options, futures and other derivatives. Pearson India.
2.  S.E. Shreve (2000). Stochastic calculus for finance I: The binomial asset pricing model,
Online Course Material
Computational Game Theory
Basics of Optimization Theory
1. Provide background in the area of computational game theory.
2.  Provide  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  subject  which  can  be  used  by  students  for  further
applications in their respective domains of interest.
1.  Understanding  of  fundamentals  like  Nash  equilibrium,  dominant  strategies  and  their
2. Basic understanding of the Co-operative games, iterated games and mixed strategies.
3. Knowledge of non-co-operative games, Zermelo’s algorithm and their applications.
[11  lectures]:  Von  Neumann  and  Morgenstern  utility  functions,  expected  utility  and  expected
utility maximization, Paradoxes of expected utility maximization, Compact representations for
preference relations, Dichotomous preferences and goals. Representations for specifying goals,
Strategic Form Non-Cooperative Games, Basic model and solution concepts, pure strategy Nash
equilibrium,  dominant  strategies,  notable  games,  coordination  games  and  focal  points,
complexity of pure strategy Nash equilibrium.
[13  Lectures]:  Mixed  strategies:  Nash’s  theorem  and  Nash  equilibrium,  Computing  mixed
strategy  Nash  equilibria,  Lemke-Howson  algorithm,  Zero  sum  games,  Minimax  Theorem,
Compact representations for strategic form games, Boolean games, congestion games, Iterated
Games: Finitely repeated games and backward induction, Infinitely repeated games, measuring
utility  over  infinite  plays  modelling  strategies  as  finite  state  machines  with  output  (Moore
machines); The Folk theorems, Iterated Boolean games, Axelrod’s tournament, the Hawk-Dove
game, evolutionary game theory, evolutionarily stable strategies.
[15  lectures]:  Extensive  Form  Non-Cooperative  Games:  Zermelo’s  algorithm  and  backward
induction,  subgame  perfect  equilibrium,  Zermelo’s  theorem,  Compact  representations  for
extensive form games, PEEK games and EXPTIME-completeness results, the Game Description
Language  (GDL),  Imperfect  information  games,  PEEK  games  with  incomplete  information,
Cooperative  Games:  Transferable  utility  (TU)  characteristic  function  games,  basic  model,
stability & fairness solution concepts, cost of stability, Shapley value, Banzhaf index, induced
subgraph  representation,  marginal  contribution  nets,  Simple  TU  games,  swap  and  trade
robustness, weighted voting games, vector weighted voting games, network flow games, NTU
games and their representations
1.  G. Chalkiadakis, E. Elkind, and M Wooldridge, Computational Aspects of Cooperative Game
Theory, Morgan-Claypool, 2011.
2.  Machler, E. Solan, S. Zamir, Game Theory, Cambridge U.P., 2013.
3.  M. J. Osborne, An Introduction to Game Theory, Oxford U.P., 2004.
1.  R. D. Luce and H. Raiffa, Games and Decisions, Wiley, 1958
2.  M. J. Osborne and A. Rubinstein, A Course in Game Theory, 1994.
Online course Material
Natural Language Understanding
Computer Science and Engineering
The Instructor will:
1.  To  provide  insights  into  fundamental  concepts  and  algorithms  related  to  Natural
2.  Impart working expertise by introducing practical problems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Formulate natural language understanding tasks
2.  Design and implement basic applications of NLU
Traditional NLU [13 Lectures]: Introduction to NLU, Motivation, Morphology, Parts-of-Speech,
Language  Models,  Word  Sense  Disambiguation,  Anaphora  Resolution,  Basics  of  Supervised
and  Semi-supervised  Learning  for  NLU,  Hidden  Markov  Models  for  language  modeling,  EM
Algorithm,  Structured  Prediction,  Dependency  Parsing,  Topic  Models,  Semantic  Parsing,
Deep  Learning  for  NLU  [20  Lectures]:  Intro  to  Neural  NLU,  Word  Vector  representations,
Neural Networks and backpropagation -- for named entity recognition, Practical tips: gradient
checks,  overfitting,  regularization,  activation  functions,  Recurrent  neural  networks  --  for
language modeling and other tasks, GRUs and LSTMs -- for machine translation, Recursive
neural networks -- for parsing, Convolutional neural networks -- for sentence classification,
Question answering and dialogue system, Graph Neural Network for NLU, Natural Language
Generation, Analysis and Interpretability of Neural NLU.
Knowledge  Graphs    [6  Lectures]:  Knowledge  graph  embedding  techniques,  Inference  on
1.  C. MANNING, H. SCHÜTZE (1999), Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing, MIT
2.  D.  JURAFSKY,  J.H.  MARTIN,  Speech  and  Language  Processing:  An  Introduction  to
Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition (3rd
Edition Draft), 2019.
1.  E. BENDER (2013), Linguistic Fundamentals for NLP , Morgan Claypool Publishers..
2.  J. ALLEN (1995), Natural Language Understanding, Pearson Education, 1995.
3.  Research Literature.
Online course Material
1.  http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224n/index.html#schedule (Deep learning for NLP)
Computer Science and Engineering   L-T-P [C]
Data Structures and Algorithms
The Instructor will:
1.   Cover various paradigms that come under the broad umbrella of AI.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Develop an understanding of where and how AI can be used.
Introduction  [9  Lectures]:  Uninformed  search  strategies,  Greedy  best-first  search,  And-Or
search,  Uniform  cost  search,  A*  search,  Memory-bounded  heuristic  search,  Local  and
Constraint Satisfaction Problems [3 Lectures]: Backtracking search for CSPs, Local search for
Adversarial Search [4 Lectures]: Optimal Decision in Games, The minimax algorithm, Alpha-
Beta pruning, Expectimax search
Knowledge  and  Reasoning  [8  Lectures]:  Propositional  Logic,  Reasoning  Patterns  in
propositional  logic;  First  order  logic:  syntax,  semantics,  Inference  in  First  order  logic,
unification and lifting, backward chaining, resolution
Planning  [3  Lectures]:  Situation  Calculus,  Deductive  planning,  STRIPES,  sub-goal,  Partial
Bayesian  Network,  Causality,  and  Uncertain  Reasoning  [5  lectures]:  Probabilistic  models,
directed and undirected models, inferencing, causality, Introduction to Probabilistic reasoning
Reinforcement  Learning  [7  Lectures]:  MDP  ,  Policy,  Q-value,  Passive  RL,  Active  RL,  Policy
1.  Russel,S.,  and  Norvig,P  .,  (2015),  Artificial  Intelligence:  A  Modern  Approach,  3rd
Edition, Prentice Hall
1.  Research literature
Online course Material
of  Computer  Science,  University
of  California,  Berkeley,
2.  NPTEL: Artificial Intelligence, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105077/
Time Series Analysis
Probability, Statistics and Random Processes
1.  To provide working knowledge of time series techniques and forecasting methods
2.  To provide with techniques and receipts for estimation and assessment of quality of
econometric models with time series data
1.  To develop the skills needed to do empirical research in "elds operating with time series
Models for Time Series [8 Lectures] Time series data, trend, seasonality, cycles and residuals,
strong and weak stationarity, autocorrelation function, linear processes, estimation of mean
and covariance functions, Wold decomposition Theorem.
Models  of  stationary  process  [8  Lectures]  ARMA  (p,  q)  processes,  ACF  and  PACF,  Modeling
using ARMA processes, estimation of parameters, testing model adequacy, Order estimation.
Univariate  Forecasting  Models  [7  Lectures]  Prediction  in  stationery  processes,  special
reference to ARMA processes, Frequency domain analysis – spectral density and its estimation,
Multivariate  Forecasting  Models  [7  Lectures]  Single  equation  models,  Vector  AR  and  ARMA
models, econometric models
Non-stationary Models [9 Lectures] Stationarity through differencing, ARIMA model, ARMAX,
ARIMAX  models  and  introduction  to  ARCH  models.  Indicative  Assignments:  Analysis  of  real
data (namely, NEON data, IMD data, etc.) using different
time series models
1.  Blockwell, P. J. and Davis, R. A. (2017). Introduction to Time Series and Forecasting,
2nd Edition, Springer.
2.  Chat"eld, C. (2004) The Analysis of Time Series – An Introduction, Chapman and Hall
/ CRC, 4 th ed.
1.  Box, G.E.P., Jenkins, G. and Reinsel, G. (1994) Time Series Analysis-Forecasting and
Control, 3rd ed., Pearson Education
Online course Material
1.  Mikusheva,  Anna,  Time  Series  Analysis,  Department  of  Economics,  Massachusetts
1.  Introduce  students  to  the  domain  of  Symmetric  and  Asymmetric  Cryptography,  and
develop an appreciation for some applications in which Cryptography is used in real-
1.  Learn to model security of various cryptographic primitives as an adversarial game.
2.  Learn  the  design  principles  of  Block  ciphers,  stream  ciphers,  hash  functions,  MAC's,
public key encryption, and digital signatures.
3.  Identify novel and significant open research questions in the field.
4.  Using cryptographic primitives to design some real life protocols, such as ZKP,
coin tossing over insecure-channel, and MPC.
Foundations  [9  lectures):  Attacking  Toy  ciphers,  Kerchofs  law,  Perfect  security,  OWE,  PRG,
Symmetric  key  cryptography  [11  lectures]:  Block  ciphers,  stream  ciphers,  hash  functions,
MAC, authenticated encryption.
Asymmetric  Key  cryptography  [11  lectures]:  DKHE,  RSA,  El  Gamal  cryptosystems  (with
required  mathematical  foundations),  Elliptic  Curve  Cryptography,  Digital  signatures,  Public
Key Infrastructure and Digital certificates.
Cryptographic protocols [8 lectures]: Secure multiparty computation, Zero knowledge proofs,
Oblivious transfer etc.
1.  Katz, Lindell: Theory of modern cryptography, CRC Press, 3rd Edition.
2.   Hoffstein, Pfipher, Silverman: Introduction to mathematical cryptography
Online course Material
Graph Theory and Applications
Computer Science and Engineering
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce  various  terminologies,  concepts  and  algorithms  related  to  graphs,  and
discuss their applications in real-world scenarios.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Formulate and solve real-world problems using the mathematical foundations of graph
Preliminaries [3 lectures]: Graphs, Isomorphism, Subgraphs, Matrix representations, Degree,
Operations on graphs, Degree sequences
Connected graphs and shortest paths [4 lectures]: Walks, Trails, Paths, Connected graphs,
Distance,  Cut-vertices,  Cut-edges,  Blocks,  Connectivity,  Weighted  graphs,  Shortest  path
Trees [3 lectures]: Characterizations, Number of trees, Minimum spanning trees
Special classes of graphs [2 lectures]: Bipartite graphs, Line graphs, Chordal graphs
Eulerian graphs [2 lectures]: Characterization, Fleury’s algorithm, Chinese-postman-problem
Hamilton graphs [3 lectures]: Necessary conditions and suﬃcient conditions
Independent sets, coverings, matchings [5 lectures]: Basic equations, Matchings in bipartite
graphs, Perfect matchings, Greedy and approximation algorithms
Vertex  colorings  [2  lectures]:  Chromatic  number  and  cliques,  Greedy  coloring  algorithm,
Coloring of chordal graphs, Brook’s theorem
Edge  colorings  [4  lectures]:  Gupta-Vizing  theorem,  Class-1  graphs  and  Class-2  graphs,
Planar graphs [3 lectures]: Basic concepts, Euler’s formula, Polyhedrons and planar graphs,
Characterizations, Planarity testing, 5-color-theorem
Directed  graphs  [4  lectures]:  Out-degree,  In-degree,  Connectivity,  Orientation,  Eulerian
directed graphs, Hamilton directed graphs
Applications [4 lectures]: Biology, Social Sciences, Engineering, Computer Science
1.  West,D.B., (2002), Introduction to Graph Theory, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall of India
2.  Deo,N., (2003), Graph Theory: With Application to Engineering and Computer Science,
Prentice Hall of India
2.  Research literature
Online course Material
NPTEL: Graph Theory (for CSE), https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106108054/39
NPTEL: Graph Theory (for Mathematics), https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111106050/
Algorithm for Big Data
Computer Science and Engineering
The Instructor will:
1.   Introduce some algorithmic techniques developed for handling large amounts of data.
2.  Emphasize both theoretical as well as practical aspects of such algorithms.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design and Analyzing existing algorithms as well as design novel algorithms pertaining
to big data.
Introduction  [7  lectures]:  Randomized  algorithms,  Universal  hash  family,  Probabilistic
algorithm  analysis,  Approximation  algorithms,  ε-Approximation  schemes,  Sublinear  time
complexity, Sublinear Algorithms.
Property Testing [10 lectures]: Testing list’s sortedness or monotonicity, Distribution testing
Testing properties of bounded degree graphs, Dense graphs and General graphs.
Sketching  and  Streaming  [10  lectures]:  Extremely  Small-Space  Data  Structures,  CountMin
Sketch, Count Sketch, Linear Sketching, AMS Sketch, Turnstile Streaming, Graph Sketching,
MapReduce  [6  lectures]:  MapReduce  Algorithms  in  Constrains  Settings  such  as  small  memory,  few
machines, few rounds, and small total work, Eﬃcient Parallel Algorithms
External  memory  and  cache-obliviousness  [6  lectures]:  Minimizing  I/O  for  large  datasets,
Algorithms and data structures such as B-trees, Buffer trees, Multiway merge sort
Online course Material
Self Learning Material
1.  Department of Computer Science, Harvard University, Algorithms for Big Data
3.  “Introduction to Property Testing” (link) by Oded Goldreich
1.  Introduce multi-objective optimization.
2.  Introduce evolutionary computations and using these to solve nonlinear optimization
3.  Application of multi-objective optimization.
1.  Understand the ideas of evolutionary computations and multi-objective optimization.
2.  Understand the advantages of multi-objective optimization.
3.  Solving  single  and  multi-objective  optimization  problems  using  evolutionary
4.  Implementation of multi-objectvie optimization in some engineering problems.
Evolutionary  optimization    [10  lectures]:  Introduction  to  evolutionary  optimization,  genetic
algorithms,  mathematical  models  of  genetic  algorithms.  Evolutionary  programming  and
evolution strategies, antcolony optimization and particle swarm optimization
Multi-objective Optimization [6 lectures ]: Partial ordering with respect to a pointed cone, non
dominated sorting, introduction to multi-objective optimization, applications of multi objective
optimization,  solution  of  a  multi-objective  optimization  problem,  efficient,  week  efficient
proper efficient solution, ideal and nadir vector. Multi-objective decision making
Classical methods for solving multi objective optimization [6 lectures]: Weighted sum method,
ϵ-constrained method, goal programming technique, weighted metric methods, lexicographic
ordering method. Advantages and limitations of classical methods
Multi-objective optimization using evolutionary algorithm [7 lectures]: Evolutionary algorithms
for multi-obicative optimization - binary and real coded genetic algorithm NSGA-II, NSGA-III,
particle swarm optimization for multi objective optimization, implementation of evolutionary
Application of Multi-objective optimization in polynomial time problems [5 lectures]: shortest
path problems, spanning trees, assignment problems
Application  of  Multi-objective  optimization  in  NP  hard  problems  [5  lectures]:  Knapsack
problems, branch and bound problems, and travelling salesman problems, application of multi-
objective optimization in engineering
1.  Dan Simon, Evolutionary Optimization Algorithms, Wiley, 2013
2.  K. Deb, Multiobjective optimization using evolutionary algorithms, Wiley, 2003
3.  M. Ehrgott, Multicriteria optimization, Springer, 2005
1.  R Fletcher, Practical Methods of Optimization, 2nd Edition, Wiley, 2000
2.  K. Miettinen, Nonlinear Multiobjective Optimization, Kluer Academic Publications, 1999.
Online course Material
1.  D.  Sharma,  Evolutionary  Computation  for  Single  and  Multiobjective  Optimization,
Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering,  IIT  Guwahati  ,  NPTEL  course  materials,
2.  K.  Deb,  Introduction  to  Optimization  and  its  Scope  in  Practice,  GIAN  -  MHRD,  IIT
Digital Image Analysis
Computer Science and Engineering, EE
The Instructor will:
1.  To introduce the origin and formation of digital imaging.
2.  To  develop  the  understanding  of  different  types  of  imaging  techniques  for  different
3.  To equip the students with various possible applications of image analysis.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Enhance image in spatial and frequency domain.
2.  Implement various aspects of image segmentation and compression.
Digital  Image  Fundamentals  [3  Lectures]:  Image  modeling,  Sampling  and  Quantization,
Imaging  Geometry,  Digital  Geometry,  Image  Acquisition  Systems,  Different  types  of  digital
Image Transforms [7 Lectures]: Basic transforms: Spatial and Frequency Domain Transforms
Image  Enhancement  [7  Lectures]:  Point  processing,  interpolation,  enhancement  in  spatial
domain, enhancement in frequency domain
Color  Image  Processings  [3  Lectures]:  Color  Representation,  Laws  of  color  matching,
chromaticity diagram, color enhancement, color image segmentation, color edge detection
Image compression [4 Lectures]: Lossy and lossless compression schemes, prediction based
compression schemes, vector quantization, sub-band encoding schemes, JPEG compression
Morphology [5 Lectures]: Dilation, erosion, opening, closing, hit and miss transform, thinning,
extension to grayscale morphology, Euler technique
Segmentation  [5  Lectures]:  Segmentation  of  grey  level  images,  Watershed  algorithm  for
segmenting grey level image
Feature Detection [5 Lectures]:Fourier descriptors, shape features, object matching/features
1.  C.  GONZALEZ,  R.E.  WOODS  (2018),  Digital  Image  Processing,  Prentice  Hall,  4th
2.  A.K. JAIN (1989), Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing, Prentice Hall.
Online course Material
Quantum Cryptography and Coding
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce the students to the fascinating field of cryptography and coding, with specific
emphasis on the quantum aspects of it.
2.  Highlight  a  number  of  facets  of  these  theories  having  some  parallel  with  the  more
familiar classical world.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the fundamental principles of quantum cryptography and coding.
2.  Become  familiar  with  the  modern  aspects  of  the  theory,  including  its  experimental
Cryptography  [10  Lectures]:  Various  aspects  of  modern  cryptography;  number  theoretic
Classical  Coding  Theory  [6  Lectures]:  Concepts  of  entropy,  mutual  information  and  related
aspects; Shannon's coding theorem.
Basic concepts of Quantum Mechanics [5 Lectures]: From the perspective of information and
cryptography: Hilbert space, states, operators: Hermitian and Unitary, simple measurements.
Some basic no-go theorems [2 Lectures]: With implications to cryptography.
Some  basic  applications  pertinent  to  quantum  cryptography  [12  Lectures]:  Entanglement,
teleportation, dense coding, Quantum Key Distribution protocols: BB84, B92, Ekert protocol,
Goldenberg-Vaidman, counterfactual quantum cryptography; protocols of quantum dialogue;
Quantum  secret  sharing  protocol;  Quantum  cheating  and  cryptography;  Protecting
information  and  QKA  (quantum  key  agreement);  Shor's  factoring  algorithm  and  modern
cryptography; Experimental progress in quantum cryptography.
Quantum Coding [4 Lectures]: Quantum aspects of Shannon coding theorem. (4 Lectures)
1.  Nielsen Michael, A. and Chuang Isaac , I., (2010), Quantum Computation and Quantum
Information, Cambridge University Press, 2010.
1.  Benenti, G., Casati, G., and Strini, G., (2004) Principles of Quantum Computation and
Information, World Scientific Press, 2004
2.  Bouwmeester,  D.,  Ekert,  A.  and  Zeilinger,  A.,  (2000)  The  Physics  of  Quantum
Information, 2nd edition, Springer, 2000
Online course Material
1.  Shor,  P.,  Quantum  Computation,MIT  Open  Course,  18.435J  Fall  2003,  Link
Quantum Inspired Optimization
MSc, M.Tech and Ph. D. Students
Any nonlinear optimization course and basic
concepts of quantum introduction.
1.  Introduce quantum computing in optimization.
2.  Formulation and solution of different optimization problems in quantum way.
1.  Learn  to  solve  different  optimization  problems  using  quantum  annealers  and  digital
2.  Learn about more general optimization problems and about the Variational Quantum
Introduction of optimization [2 lecture]: General optimization problem, local/global solution,
integer programming, binary knapsack programming and applications
Quadratic unconstrained binary optimization problems [5 lectures]: Max cut problem and Ising
model,  Formulating  the  problem  in  quantum  way,  Moving  from  Ising  to  QUBO  and  back,
Combinatorial  optimization  problems  with  QUBO  model,  Application  in  Knapsack  problems,
Graph colouring etc.
Adiabatic  Quantum  computing  and  quantum  annealing  [5  lectures  ]:  Adiabatic  quantum
computing, Quantum annealing, Constrained quadratic models in Ocean, Running constrained
problem on quantum annealing
Quantum  approximate  optimization  algorithm  [3  lectures]:  From  adiabatic  to  QAOA,Using
QAOA with Qiskit, Using QAOA with PennyLane
Grover adaptive search  [3 lectures]: Grover’s algorithm, Quantum oracles for combinatorial
optimization, Using GAS with Qiskit
transformations,Hadamard  transform,  σx  transform,  k-local  Hamiltonian  Problems,Graph
structures and optimization problems
Variational  Quantum  Eigensolver  [5  lectures]:  Hamiltonians,  observables,  and  their
expectation values, Introduction of Variational Quantum Eigensolver, Using VQE with Qiskit,
Using VQE and PennyLane
1.  Elias F. Combarro, Samuel Gonzalez-Castillo: A Practical Guide to Quantum Machine
Learning and Quantum Optimization, Pact Publishing Ltd., Birmingham, 2023.
2.  W. Cruz-Santos, G. Morales-Luna: Approximability of Optimization Problems through
Adiabatic Quantum Computation, Morgan & Claypool Publishers, California, USA
Online course Material