INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION AND
REDRESSAL OF SEXUAL HARRASSMENT) RULES, 2023
Short title, applicability and commencement:
These Rules are to be called the IIT Jodhpur (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of
Sexual Harassment) Rules, 2023.
These Rules shall be applicable in respect of those cases wherein a complaint of sexual
harassment  has  been  made  to  the  Internal  Committee  (erstwhile  Internal  Complaints
Committee, ICC) of IIT Jodhpur.
Definitions: In the following IIT Jodhpur Rules, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Aggrieved Person” means:
any student of any sex or gender of IIT Jodhpur; or
any employee of any sex or gender of IIT Jodhpur; or
any  woman  of  any  age whether  employed  or  not,  who alleges  to have been
subjected to any act of sexual harassment by the respondent on the campus of
“Act” means the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (Act No. 14 of 2013) as amended from time to time;
“Board of Governors” means the Board of Governors of Indian Institute of Technology
“Presiding Officer” means the Presiding Officer of the Internal Committee nominated
under these Rules;
“Campus” means  and includes the location or the land on which the Institute and its
premises are situated;
“Employee"  means  a  person  employed  at  IIT  Jodhpur  for  any  work  on  regular,
temporary, ad-hoc or daily wage basis, either directly or through an agent, including
a contractor, with or, without the knowledge of the principal employer, whether for
remuneration or not, or working on a voluntary basis or otherwise, whether the terms
of employment are express or implied and includes a co-worker, a contract worker,
probationer, trainee, apprentice or called by any other such name;
“Director” means the Director of Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur;
“IIT  Jodhpur”  means  the  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Jodhpur  as  incorporated
under the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961 (amended from time time);
“Internal Committee” means the Internal Committee (IC) constituted by the Institute
under Section 4 of the Act;
“Institute” means the Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur;
Page 1 of 5
“Member” means the member(s) of the Internal Committee constituted by the Director
in  conformity  with  provisions  of  Section  2(h)  of  the  Act  and  includes  its  Presiding
“Sexual Harassment” means:
An unwanted conduct with sexual undertones or which is persistent and which
demeans,  humiliates  or  creates  a  hostile  and  intimidating  environment  or  is
calculated to induce submission by actual or threatened adverse consequences
and  includes  any  one  or  more  or  all  of  the  following  unwelcome  acts  or
behaviour (whether directly or by implication), namely: -
any  unwelcome  physical,  verbal,  or  non-verbal  conduct  of  sexual
demand or request for sexual favours;
(iii)  making sexually coloured remarks;
physical contact and advances; or
The  following  circumstances,  among  other  circumstances,  in  relation  to  or
connected  with  any  act  or  behaviour  of  sexual  harassment  may  amount  to
sexual harassment: -
implied or explicit promise of preferential treatment as quid pro quo
for sexual favours;
implied  or  explicit  threat  of  detrimental  treatment  in  the  conduct  of
implied or explicit threat about the present or future status of the person
creating an intimidating offensive or hostile learning environment
humiliating  treatment  likely  to  affect  the  health,  safety  or  physical
integrity of the person concerned;
“Student” means a person duly admitted and pursuing a programme of study either
through  regular  mode  or  any  other  mode,  including  a  non-degree  or  short-term
programme in the Institute.
Provided  that  a  student  who  is  in  the  process  of  taking  admission  in  the  Institute,
although not yet admitted, shall be treated, for the purposes of these Rules, as a student
of the Institute;
“Workplace” means the campus of the Institute and also includes extended workplace
and  covers  within  its  scope  places  visited  as  a  student  or  employee  of  the  Institute
including  transportation  provided  for  the  purpose  of  commuting  to  and  from  the
Institute,  the  locations  outside  the  Institute  on  field/industrial  trips,  seminars,
conferences, workshops, internships, study tours, excursions, short-term placements,
places  used  for  camps,  cultural  festivals,  sports  meets  and  other  activities  where  a
student or employee is participating in the capacity of a student or employee of the
Page 2 of 5
“Rules” would, unless the context otherwise indicate, mean 'The Sexual Harassment
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Rules, 2023’ (amended
by the Board of Governors from time to time).
The  Internal  Committee  and  its  Composition: The  Director  of the  Institute  shall  have  the
powers to constitute the Internal Committee in conformity with the provisions of Section 4(1)
of the Act in the following manner, namely: -
the Presiding Officer, to be a woman  employed at a senior level at workplace from
amongst the employees;
persons from a diverse range of departments within the Institute, selected from the
faculty/ academic staff;
one person from amongst the non-academic staff of the Institute;
two persons from amongst academic/non-academic staff of the Institute committed to
the cause of women or who has had experience in social work or have legal knowledge;
one  external  member
fraternity  or  non-governmental
organizations or associations committed to the cause of women or a person familiar
with the issues relating to sexual harassment; and
one secretarial staff who will be convenor of the Internal Committee but will not have
any powers as a member of the Internal Committee:
Provided that at least one-half of the total members to (excluding secretarial staff) be
so nominated shall be women.
The Presiding Officer and every member of the Committee shall hold office for such period,
for  three  years  from  the  date  of  their  nomination  or  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  of
Governors. Post completion, the tenure may be extended for another term of three years.
The Internal Committee shall have a quorum comprising of a minimum of five (5) members
including the Presiding Officer and the External member.
The inquiry into any Complaint shall be made by the Internal Committee in accordance with
the principles of natural justice.
Complaint of sexual harassment: An aggrieved person shall submit a written complaint to
the Internal Committee within three months from the date of the incident and in case of a
series  of  incidents  within  a  period  of  three  months  from  the  date  of  the  last  incident.  The
complaint should contain the name and contact details of the aggrieved person, details of the
nature of harassment, date and time of the incident, and the name of the person against whom
the complaint is being lodged. It should contain, wherever possible, a list of witnesses and
other evidence in support of the Complaint.
In exceptional circumstances and for reasons to be recorded in writing, the IC may take suo-
motu cognizance of grievances relating to sexual harassment and initiate appropriate inquiry.
Page 3 of 5
The process for making complaint and conducting Inquiry: The Internal Committee shall
comply with the procedure prescribed in these Rules and the Act for making a complaint and
inquiring into the complaint in a time bound manner. The Institute shall provide all necessary
facilities to the Internal Committee to conduct the inquiry expeditiously and with required
Conciliation:  The  aggrieved  person  may  seek conciliation  in  order  to  settle  the  matter.  No
monetary settlement should be made as a basis of conciliation. The Internal Committee shall
also ensure that the conciliation is not being sought by the complainant under duress. Where
a settlement is arrived at, copies of the settlement shall be provided to the aggrieved person
and the respondent, and no further inquiry shall be conducted by the Internal Committee.
Confidentiality: The Internal Committee and all those in the chain of information flow of the
complaint including but not limited to the member of the Institute, academic/ non-academic
staff, witnesses etc., are duty bound to keep all information confidential and breach of any
confidentiality  shall  be  punishable  by  the  Internal  Committee  in  accordance  with  the
Institute’s policy on misconduct.
Applicability of CCS Rules: In the case the respondent is governed by CCS Rules, the IC shall
make preliminary/ fact finding inquiry and refer the same to the Disciplinary Authority under
CCS Rules for further action.
Process of conducting an Inquiry:
The Internal Committee shall, upon receipt of the complaint shall meet the aggrieved
person and take the statement of the   complainant. Such statement should be recorded
and signed by them with the date and time of recording. Simultaneously, the Internal
Committee shall send one copy of the complaint to the respondent within a period of
seven days of such receipt.
Upon receipt of the copy of the complaint, the respondent shall file his or her reply to
the complaint along with the list of documents, and names and addresses of witnesses,
if any, within a period of ten days.
When  the  respondent  appears  before  the  Internal  Committee  and  accepts  all  the
allegations made against him/her, the Internal Committee shall be required to prepare
its report and submit the same to the Director of the Institute within ten days.
If  the  respondent  does  not  accept  the  allegations,  the  Internal  Committee  shall
interview  all  such  witnesses  and  call  to  it  all  such  evidence  as  maybe  needed  to
investigate the complaint.
(e)  While recording the statement of the complainant/ respondent or his/her witnesses,
the  Internal  Committee  shall  ensure  compliance  of  the  rules  of  natural  justice.
Provided  that  in  order  to  ensure  safety,  security  and  privacy  of  the  witnesses
concerned,  the  Internal  Committee  will  not  allow  cross-examination  of  the
complainant or her/his witnesses in   person.   However, under such circumstances,
cross examination may be permitted through question-answer mode in writing.
The identities of the aggrieved person or the victim or the witness/es or the respondent
/ offender shall not be made public.
During the pendency of the inquiry, on a  written  request  made  by the aggrieved
person,  the  Internal  Committee  may  make  such  interim  recommendations  to  the
Director  as  may  be  consistent  with  the practice and conventions of the Institute.
Page 4 of 5
If  the  Internal  Committee  arrives  at  a  conclusion  that  the  allegations  against  the
respondent are false and malicious it will recommend appropriate punitive measures
to  be  taken  against  the  complainant.  Mere  inability  to  substantiate  a  complaint  or
provide adequate proof need not attract such punitive action against the complainant.
The inquiry has to be completed within a period of ninety days from  receipt of the
The  Internal  Committee shall  consider  all facts  and  statements  placed  before  it  and
conclude  its  findings.  The  finding  so  concluded  is  to  be  given  to  both  the  parties,
providing them a maximum of 3 days time to submit their representation, if any. After
considering  the  representation  submitted,  if  any,  by  the  parties,  the  Internal
Committee shall prepare a report of its findings and recommendations.
The  original  copy  of  the  report,  together  with  statements  of  witnesses  and  other
annexures/exhibits shall be submitted by the Internal Committee to the Director of the
Institute within ten days of completion of the Inquiry.
The Director of the Institute shall cause the implementation of the recommendations
of the committee within a period of thirty days from the receipt of the inquiry report.
Page 5 of 5