Registration & Academic Session | Bachelor of Technology | IIT Jodhpur
Registration & Academic Session
What about registration? What items need to be brought and what are the procedures?
Basically, you have to bring originals and copies of all the necessary certificates, JEE (Main & Advanced) Score cards, proof of address, identity proof, caste/domicile certificate (whichever is applicable), at least two passport size photographs.
After admission into B.Tech. Program, can I change my branch?     *Discontinuation of Branch Change from Academic Year 2026–27 in UG Programs.
Click here for the branch change rules applicable to UG students admitted in academic year 2025-2026
Where to find course structure for different programs?
You can find the curriculum and course structure of different programs offered by the Institute at their respective pages as below.
Bioscience & Bio Engineering
Computer Science & Engineering
AI and Data Science
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Where to find course structure for different programs?
The academic session normally runs from the end of July in one year to the middle of July in the next year. The academic session is divided into three parts: two regular semesters and a summer term as per the following timelines:
Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November
Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April
Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July.
Excluding the days of the examinations, the total number of days of instruction in a semester is at least 70.
The Academic Calendar gives the exact dates of all important events during the Academic Session, such as orientation, registration, commencement of classes, adding and dropping of courses, submission of documents, examinations, submission of grades, conversion of Incomplete grades, vacation, and mid-semester recess. This calendar is approved by the Senate of the Institute and displayed in the Institute website much before the commencement of the academic semester.
What is Branch Change rules for UG students?
The branch change of the student in another branch and engineering science is permitted after the completion of the 1st year after completing all academic requirements of the credits including non-graded courses. The eligibility criteria of the branch change is as follows:
E1: The student must have completed all prescribed course credits for the previous semesters (including the non-graded courses).
E2: The student has no backlog.
E3: No disciplinary Action has been imposed on the student.
Table: Summary of branch change criteria for students in UG (B.Tech./ B.S.) Programs
CGPA ≥ 8.5 Others
CGPA ≥ 7.5 (For SC,ST, PWD)
E1 E2 E3
90% of current Strength
110% of Sanctioned Strength
CGPA ≥ 8 Others
CGPA ≥ 7 (For SC,ST, PWD)
E1 E2 E3
90% of current Strength
Note: 1. No Branch Change post second year onwards. 2. This will be applicable to UG Students admitted in academic year 2025-26. 3. If the calculated upper limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the upper limit for seats will be the lower rounded number (floor operation). 4. If the calculated lower limit of permissible strength is a fractional number, the lower limit for seats will be the higher rounded number (ceil operation). Discontinuation of Branch Change from Academic Year 2026–27 in UG Programs
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 16 Jan 2026 - 09:58 AM