Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH 65, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur 342 037 | Phone: +91-291-280 1101 | eMail: pro@iitj.ac.in | Website: http://iitj.ac.in
Institute Building, Permanent Campus, IIT Jodhpur
Institute Brochure for Prospective Faculty
Designed and Compiled by
Professor C. Venkatesan, Dr. Kshema Prakash and Dr. Vidya Sarveswaran
The material presented in this document has been
prepared and compiled in accordance with explicit
publication rights resting with the Indian Institute of
Technology Jodhpur. This document is intended for
pure academic use by individuals and institutes
without any bias or judgement towards its contents.
The compilers, editors and IIT Jodhpur will not be
responsible for any direct, accidental or
consequential misinterpretations arising from the use
of material contained in this document. Also, the
material presented in this document including the
photographs are the property of the Institute and
cannot be reproduced without written permission of
the Institute’s authorities.
Vidya Sarveswaran, Chiranjoy Chattopadhyay, Latha
Menon, Kirti Vardhan Rathore, Harsh Kooshal Gandhi,
Rajat Mangla, Karthik Mohan, Venkatesh Kotwade,
Abhinav Joshi, Getty Images, Google Images,
© Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur, April 2019
IIT JODHPUR - Welcome to New Beginnings…
Do you have the spark in you to make a difference through
creative  technological  solutions?  Are  you  looking  for  a  meaningful
opportunity to contribute to the grand challenges of the nation? Are
you  passionate  about  exploring  exciting  new  opportunities?  If  you
are … then knock on the creative doorway called IIT Jodhpur!
Whether you are a prospective applicant or a new employee,
we  would  like  to  walk  you  through  this  unique  journey  called  IIT
Jodhpur!  This brochure is an attempt to orient you towards our core
values, and life in general in the Institute.
We  at  IIT  Jodhpur  are  always  looking  for  people  with
enormous  talent,  exceptional  academic  and  research  contributions
and big hearts!
If you hold a doctoral degree or if you are a doctoral student
working  in  the  fields  of  Engineering,  Sciences  or  Humanities  and
Social Sciences…then…welcome aboard!
Located in India’s most vibrant state – Rajasthan,
IIT  Jodhpur’s  sprawling,  award  winning,  state-of-the-art
residential campus on 852 acres of land located ~20 km away
north-northeast  from  the  center  of  the  city  of  Jodhpur  on
National Highway 65 towards Nagaur. This new campus has
been  planned  meticulously  and  envisioned  to  stand  as  an
icon  for  world  class  academics  –  simple,  but  deep...  The
campus has housing for Faculty Members, along with a school, bank and shopping center. Also, it has a Primary Health
Centre  with  hotline  connections  to  reach  the  top  hospitals  of  the  city,  like  the  All  India  Institute  of  Medical  Sciences,
Jodhpur, and an equipped ambulance service.
Aerial view of the IIT Jodhpur campus
Currently, with the second phase construction of the campus of the Institute underway, IIT Jodhpur has the singular
distinction of being the first fully-planned technical institute campus in India. More importantly, it will be an international
exemplar of sustainability with Net Zero strategies for Energy, Water and Waste.
Our core values and what we stand for…
Vision and Mission
  Promotes technology thought and action, and
  Prepares needed technical human resources to meet the technology challenges of the nation.
The Institute is engaged in
  Creating a vibrant technology institute that incubates and promotes learning, research, invention and  innovation; and
  Preparing each primary stakeholder towards their dharma, while continuing to adhere to its core values :-
(a) Prepare competent Technology Graduates ready to meet Grand Challenges of India;
(b) Train active functionaries of a process driven professional institute;
(c) Facilitate builders of an internationally competitive academic institute; and
(d) Provide technology innovation as a force to as many industries as possible for economic value creation.
The Institute offers five sets of Programs in different disciplines.
B.Tech.  M.Sc.  M.Sc. –
Bioscience & Bioengineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Computer Science & Engineering
Cyber Physical Systems
Sensors and Internet of Things
Advanced Manufacturing and Design
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering  Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Data and Computational Sciences
Humanities & Social Sciences
Humanities & Social Sciences
Apart from the classical areas of Core Sciences, Engineering Sciences, Humanities & Social Sciences, the Departments of Institute also
host Ph.D. program in the inter-disciplinary areas, like, Smart Health Care, Quantum Information and Computation, AUV Technologies, IOT
& Applications, Digital Humanities, Space Technologies, and Cognitive Science.
Buildings & Facilities
The masterplan of IIT Jodhpur’s Campus was selected for the 2017 Exemplary Performance Award by the Green
Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) Council under ‘Passive Architecture Design’ category.
Campus life at IIT Jodhpur is both vibrant and enriching. Activities, like cultural programs, celebration of national
festivals, workshops of general nature, bring together the Faculty Members and Staff Members along with their families.
Spacious and comfortable housing accommodation on campus is provided to Faculty Members who wish to join
the Institute. While housing allocation is done on the basis of seniority, the type of built spaces are egalitarian in nature.
All Faculty Members are entitled to the same type of housing irrespective of their designations, ensuring a democratic
process. Basic electrical fixtures like fans and lights are provided with every house.
Facilities on Campus
The campus has a dedicated arrangement of vendors providing various services, like grocery, laundry, parlours, and
facilities, like dining and a food court.
State Bank of India has a dedicated branch on campus located in the Community Center, Jaisalmer
Club. It provides banking and ATM services. ATM facilities are also available in East Block of the Main
Building and the Lecture Hall Building operated by the State Bank of India and the Canara Bank.
The Instiute has two dining options.There is a Food Court on the 3rd Floor, Dining Hall
Building that provides hygienic food, fresh juices and various other snacks.
The Institute also has arranged for a vendor, who provides healthy and hygienic food
to students in the Students’ Mess located near the Hostels.  Faculty members can avail of
both  the  facilites  in  the  Institute.  Both  the  food  court  and  the  Student’s  mess  offer
vegetarian and nonvegetarian options.
The Community Center on campus is the place to stop by for groceries, dairy and
basic  everyday  needs.  It  also  houses  a  beauty  salon  for  both  men  and  women,  and  a
Laundry Service is operational from the Himalaya West Berm 5 (Barrels 4 and 5). The
charges are  as  per  piece of  laundry. Contact  details of  the  Manager of  Laundry Services  is
provided towards the end of this booklet.
Facilities on Campus
A campus creche accommodates children of employees while the parents are at work.
Presently, it is operational in one of the Type B Flats.
Sports fields on campus provide opportunities for a wide range
of  games  and  sports  including  table  tennis,  cricket,  basketball,
badminton  and  lawn  tennis,  for  students,  employees  and  wards  of
employees. The coaches who train the students, also provide training
to the children of employees.
A Children’s Library  is housed in  The Learning Hub, i.e., the Library of  the Intitute.
Children of employees can avail the facility of reading and borrowing books. The Children’s
Library  also  hosts  a  range  of  activities    for  the  children  of  employees,  like,  story  hours,
paper craft making, etc. in partnership with volunteers.
Weekly  Yoga  sessions  are  held  for  the  residents  of  the
Besides these facilities, some employees and family members
also offer training in arts and crafts like music, dance and origami.
Services & Utilities
A  number  of  Services  and  Utilities  are  available  on  the
Campus. These include Security Services, Housekeeping (collection
of  Solid  Waste  from  all  buildings  on  campus,  and  sweeping,
Institute  Buildings  and  Hostels),
mopping  and  cleaning  of
Transport, Water Supply, Electricity Supply, Sewage, Horticulture,
and Internet & Telephone. Also, the Civil and Electrical Maintenance
works  of  the  buildings  are  attended  to  by  the  CPWD  staff.  The
contact details of the persons handling these services are provided
at towards the end of this booklet.
There are a number of vendors who are inclined to provide
other  services.  Though,  the  Institute  does  not  have  any  formal
arrangement with these vendors to provide any service, interested
persons may contact them to meet their requirements like, drinking
water, DTH TV, AC maintenance services , supply and installation of
RO/UV  Water  Purifier,  washing  machine  services,  electrical  items
and supply of furniture.
The city of  Jodhpur has several stores that provide popular
brands of all house hold goods. A few of the popular outlets that
can be visited are Fresh n Green, Big Bazar, Reliance Fresh, National
Handloom,  Thar  Handloom  and  Saluja  Enterprises.  Most  branded
item are available in the showrooms in the city area.
Contact  details  of  some  of  these  vendors  and  outlets  are
provided towards the end of this booklet.
The IIT Jodhpur Campus is home to several species of native flora and fauna. Black Bucks, Chinkaras, Nilgai, Jackals,
Snakes and the historical Khejri trees.
IIT Jodhpur has a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its campus, where children of Faculty Members and Staff Members study.
Presently, the school runs Classes I to VIII. Also, there are a number of good schools in the city, in which children of Faculty
Members  and  Staff  Members  of  IIT  Jodhpur  study.  These  include:  Delhi  Public  School,  Sri  Aurobindo  International,
Vidhyashram International School, Rajmata Krishna Kumari Girls Public School, Mayoor Chopasni School, Saint Patrick’s Vidya
Bhawan, Saint Anne’s School, Saint Paul’s School, Central Academy, Euro School, and Happy Hours, to name a few.
An  ISO  9001:2005  Certified  Primary  Health  Center  is  fully  operational  in  the
campus, and this service is provided by Goyal Hospital and Research Center Private
Limited,  Jodhpur.  It  has  both  Out-Patient  and  In-Patient  services  with  a  panel  of
Medical Officers and Para Medical Staff available on duty round the clock. The basic
laboratory  tests  and  physiotherapy  facilities  are  provided  here.  An  instrumented
ambulance is on waiting round the clock for special service needed in the Secondary
and  Tertiary  Hospitals  in  the  city  of  Jodhpur.  Besides,  weekly  visits  of  specialist
doctors are arranged in the Primary Health Center. Currently, the facility runs in 3111
and 3114, Street 3, Park Avenue.
It is good to have in the city an all new state-of-the-art All
India Institute of Medical Sciences, the associated Hospitals of the
S. N. Medical College and some specialized hospitals. The Institute
has  agreements  with  a  few  prominent  hospitals  for  priority
treatment  to  its  employees  and  students.  These  include:  Goyal
Hospital  and  Research  Center,  Medi  Pulse  Hospital,  Vasan  Eye
Care Hospital and Vasundhara Hospital.
Jodhpur – The Sun City
Jodhpur  is  a  city  of  historical  importance  to  tourists  and  a  city  of  strategic  importance  to  the  nation,  centrally
situated in Marwar – the western region of the state of Rajasthan. It is a small, calm, friendly city with just about 12.7 lakh
population, with a sizeable population among this being from the Indian Army, Air Force and paramilitary organizations.
The key tourist attractions in Jodhpur are: Mehrangarh Fort, Jaswant Thada, Umaid Bhawan Palace, and Balsamand
and Kaylana lakes. The city is well connected to other major destinations, like Jaisalmer Palace and its neighbouring sand
dunes, Mount Abu, Neemrana Fort, Ranthambore National Park, Udaipur Palace and surrounding lakes, Ajmer Dargah
Sharif, Kumbhalgarh Fort, and Jaipur.  The Climate of Jodhpur, though hot for most time of the year, touring to the nearby
destinations is a weekend and semester-end getaway activity of the campus life at IIT Jodhpur.
Leisure, Shopping & Eateries in Jodhpur
Are you terrified of traffic jams?! Relax! There are none here in Jodhpur in any part of the city even during “office
hours”!! The anecdotal stories of the Royal Legends of the historic times, and why the city earned its names The Sun City
or The Blue City are sure to interest you.
The city of Jodhpur is dotted with shopping destinations for authentic ethnic goods.
Marwadi cuisine is popular for its spicy and arid region ingredients. This traditional palette can be relished in its
village kitchens at eateries called Dhānis in and around the city. Ask for GYPSY, if you don’t have much time to wait!
Jodhpur is has no burden of a metropolitan city; it offers the much needed
quiet to do focused academic work. It has 6 new, prominent academic and R&D
organizations, which are about 5 or more years old, namely: (1) All India Institute
of  Medical  Sciences,  (2)  National  Law  University,  (3)  National  Institute  of
Fashion  Technology,  (4)  Dr.  Sarvepalli  Radhakrishnan  Rajasthan  Ayurved
University, (5) Sardar Patel University for Police, Security and Criminal Justice,
and  (6)  Footwear  Design  and  Development  Institute.  DRDO’s  Defence
Laboratory is one of the prominent older R&D organisations in town.
Jodhpur is also a city of Lawyers and Chartered Accountants. Especially
with the High Court of the state of Rajasthan located in the city, Jodhpur has
ample  professional  opportunities  for  spouses  with  backgrounds  in  these
subjects.  Further,  it  has  ~700  SMEs  around  Jodhpur,  contributing  in  various
sectors.  Oil  and  gas  giants,  like  Cairn  Energy,  Shell  and  Schlumberger,  are
strengthening  their  establishments  around  Jodhpur.  All  of  the  above  offer
opportunities for appointment of spouses of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur,
based on his/her qualifications and relevant experience.
Connectivity & Transportation
Jodhpur is connected by air to Delhi and Mumbai through Air India and private carriers
fly from and to Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Bangalore. The city is well connected
by train to all major cities in the Country, and by mega highways to major neighbouring cities,
e.g., Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad.
Taxi  facilities  (Messrs.  Balaji  Taxi  Services)  are  available  on  call  in  and  around  the  campus;  in
addition, the Online App-based services are becoming popular. Besides, the Institute has identified  a
vendor to provide taxi services to persons needing the service (at cost to the  user), and bus service
between the Institute and Jodhpur City at nominal cost.
The Institute has a dedicated bus service to and from the City of Jodhpur, for all residents and
school going children of employees, at regular intervals. Details are provided towards the end of this
For our New Faculty Members…
(1) Provides transit accommodation immediately on arrival;
(2) Reimburses relocation expenses from any place in India
(a)  Telephone bills
(b)  Medical expenses of self and dependents as per
norms laid down by Government of India, and
(c)  Children Education Allowance for first two children
up to Class 12;
(a)  Research Initiation Seed Grant within the initial
period of joining, up to Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty
(b)  Cumulative Professional Development Allowance of
Rs. 3 Lakhs for a block grant of every 3 years;
(5) Contributes to New Pension Scheme of the Government
(6) Rewards up to Rs. 10,000 per month for three years for
INSA Young Scientist  and INAE Young Engineer
(7) Facilitates soft loan.
Reimbursement of relocation expenses of up to Rs. 1,50,000 or actual (whichever is  less) for candidates joining for
full-time positions at the Institute from abroad/from any place in India, subject to maximum of one-way economy class
airfare by Air India for travel for family. As per the Government of India norms, the tickets must be booked either through
Air India Website/Office or the authorized travel agent Balmer & Lawrie Private Limited or Ashok Travels & Tours or IRCTC.
This facility is available only to candidates joining the posts of Professor, Associate Professor and Assistant Professor after
executing a bond to serve IIT Jodhpur for 3 Years. Persons joining the post of Assistant Professor Grade II (On Contract)
can become eligible only, if they are offered the post of Assistant Professor Grade I after due review of performance; in
such cases, a bond shall be executed to serve IIT Jodhpur for 3 Years after joining the post of Assistant Professor Grade I.
The Institute reimburses telephone bills as per the following slabs.
Ceiling Amount (Rs. per Month )
Professors and Group A Official having Pay Level 14 and above
Associate Professors/Assistant Professors/ Group  A Official having Pay Level 12 and above
Other Entitled faculty members / Other Group A Official having Pay Level 10 and above
For the Telephone Reimbursement procedure and forms, please log on to Institute Communications Repository.
Employees and their family members are entitled to receive reimbursement for medical attendance and treatment.
After treatment Medical Reimbursement form, Prescription/ Medical Consultation slip, Bill (s) and Medical Booklet should
be verified by Doctors of  IIT Jodhpur  Primary  Health Center. Medical Consultation  / Prescription slip is mandatory for
For details of rules, procedures and forms, please log on to Institute Communications Repository
Children Education Allowance
Under Children Education Allowance scheme an employee can avail reimbursement of Rs.2250/- per month per child
subject to the annual ceiling of Rs.27000/- per child up to a maximum of two children.
For details of rules, procedures and forms, please log on to Institute Communications Repository.
Research Initiation Seed Grant
The  Institute  supports  newly  joined  young  Faculty  Members  for  initiating  their  research  work  immediately  on
joining, with a sum of Rs. 25 Lakhs for Faculty Members.
(1)  The new Faculty Member shall submit a Seed Grant Proposal to Office of R&D within 02 years from the date of joining
(2)  The new Faculty Member will present the proposal the Seed Grant Proposal Review Committee Consisting of:
(b) Deputy Director;
(c) Dean (Faculty);
(d) Dean (R&D);
(e) Heads/Professors-in-Charge of all Departments; and
(f)  Chairman, Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment.
(3)  All Faculty Members, especially those in the domain of the proposal, are invited to the presentation and encouraged
to help the Faculty Member improve the proposal;
(4)  If the proposal is accepted in principle, suggestions made by the Seed Grant Proposal Review Committee should be
incorporated  and  the  revised  proposal  submitted  by  the  Faculty  Member  to  the  Office  of  R&D.  On  receiving  the
revised proposal, Dean (R&D) may recommend to the Director for approval of the funds for starting the Seed Grant
(5)  After the approval is accorded by the Director, a Seed Grant Project account will be opened by the Office of R&D,
clearly stating the budget utilization under different heads, such as equipments, consumables and other necessary
sections. The expenditure towards consumable and contingency shall not exceed 25% of the amount granted. No
furniture  items  shall  be  purchased  from  the  seed  grant;  the  same  will  be  provided  by  the  Institute.  And,  no
appointment shall be made of Project Staff Members in this Project.
(6)  The PI of the Seed Grant Project shall mandatorily submit the Annual Report of the progress made in the project.
(7)  The duration of seed grant project will be for 3 years from the date of approval by the Director. It is the
responsibility of the PI to close the project immediately after 03 years. At the time of closing, the PI shall submit a
detailed Technical Project Report to the Institute, and give a public Seminar at the Institute on the same.
For more details about Research Initiation Seed Grant, please contact Office of R&D.
Cumulative Professional Development Allowance (CPDA)
i.  Cumulative Professional Development Allowance will be
available for each faculty member on reimbursable basis.
ii.  CPDA will be available of Rs. 3 lakhs for each block
iii.  Current block period is April 01, 2018 to March 31, 2021.
CPDA fund will be not carry forward in next block period.
iv.  CPDA will be paid / reimbursed for:
a.  National/International Travel
b.  Lodging and Boarding Allowance for attending
Seminars, Conferences and Workshops etc.
c.  The membership fee for becoming members of
d.  Purchasing Journals, Books.
e.  Faculty members are allowed to purchase research
databases utilizing CPDA.
f.  Payment of Paper Publishing Charges from CPDA
v.  The advance may be taken from CPDA fund for
vi.  Approval may be taken as per the guideline of
“Delegation of Financial Powers” for utilizing the CPDA
vii.  The books purchased through CPDA will not require
entering in Central Stock Register.
New Pension scheme
The  Central  Government  has  introduced  the  National  Pension  System  (NPS)  with  effect  from  January  01,  2004
(except for armed forces). All the employees of Central Government and Autonomous Bodies who have joined on or after
the  above  mentioned  date  are  mandatorily  covered  under  NPS.  Subscriber  (New  Employee)  shall  submit  duly  filled
Common Subscriber Registration form (CSRF) for allotment of PRAN to the Office of Accounts with necessary documents
along with Aadhaar, PAN card and Bank Account Details.
Application  forms  for  registration  of  Subscribers  (CSRF)  can  be  downloaded  from  the  CRA  website
www.npscra.nsdl.co.in or can be collected from Office of Accounts.
Soft Loan Advance
Soft advance can be applied within 3 years of Joining the Institute and can be availed maximum of 2 times during
the service period. Soft advance can be availed for the purposes of education, obligatory expenses, legal costs purchase
of consumer durables and pilgrimages.
For details of rules, procedures and forms, please log on to Institute Communications Repository or contact Office of Accounts.
Leave Travel Concession (LTC)
After completion of one year of service at the Institute, Faculty Members can avail Leave Travel Concession (LTC) as
per norms laid down by Government of India.
For  details  of  rules,  procedures  and  forms,  please  log  on  to  Institute  Communications  Repository  or  contact  Office  of
IIT Jodhpur has established several teaching and research laboratories and facilities. These teaching and research
laboratories  help  Faculty  Members  and  Students  work  for  better  future  by  supplementing  and  improving  existing
technologies and bodies of knowledge, using competence, creativity and imagination. At the Institute level, the following
are the equipment available at Center for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE).
1.  Differential Scanning Calorimeter
2.  Simultaneous Thermal Analyzer
3.  Powder X-Ray Diffractometer
4.  Single Crystal X-Ray Diffractometer
5.  Atomic Force Microscope
6.  Scanning Electron Microscope and Electron Dispersion Spectrometer
7.  NMR Spectrometer (500 MHz)
8.  UV-VIS Spectrometers
9.  Fourier Transforms Infrared Spectrometer
10.  Fluorescence Spectrometer
11.  Surface Area Analyzer
12.  Fuel Cell
13.  PPMS DynaCool
14.  Superconducting Quantum Interface Device (SQUID)
15. Raman Spectrometer
Contact  Dr.  Rakesh  Kumar  Sharma,  Chairman,
Center  for  Advanced  Scientific  Equipment  (CASE)  for
Shared Collaborative Workspaces
For access to labs, instrumentation facilities and shared collaborative workspaces, please contact the respective
Heads of Departments.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Before you arrive…
  Inform  your  Head  of  the  Department  and  the  Office  of  Recruitment  of  your  date  of
joining and arrival plans.
  Plan to fly Air India for either domestic or international travel.
  Contact  Mr.  Darsh  Khatwani  (darsh@iitj.ac.in,  94136  90801)  to  arrange  for  transport
from the airport/railway station for transit accommodation in the Institute Guest House.
  Save all receipts/tickets/boarding passes, to make the reimbursement process easy.
2.  Whom do I report to when I arrive?
You can ask for Office of Recruitment. Mr. Darsh Khatwani will assist you with reporting and joining formalities.
3.  What are the documents required during the time of joining?
  Certificates of all degrees in original and adequate number of copies.
  Carry at least 04 passport size photographs in hardcopy and keep a soft copy handy.
  Identity proof(s) viz., Aadhar Card, PAN Card and Passport.
  Certificate for proof of age (Birth Certificate/Mark sheet of Class 10/Passport, etc.).
  Proof of prior work experience AND relieving letter in original.
  Character Certificate from your previous place of work.
  Fill the forms provided to you along with the Offer Letter and bring them at the time of joining.
4.  When I step into the Institute on first day, what are the procedures to be followed for joining?
  Report to Mr. Laxman Singh and sign your joining report. He will guide you further regarding the formalities like
Medical Examination and other paperwork to be completed.
  Meet the Head of your Department and fix up an appointment to get introduced to the Director.
  You will be provided your office space and basic infrastructure by your department.
  The concerned department can arrange for a campus visit to show you the important locations on campus.
  Meet the Professor in Charge (Faculty) Prof. C. Venkatesan in the Department of Mechanical Engineering.
5.  How can I get an email id and access to Internet?
  Visit the Computer  Center, located on the Ground Floor of  Library Building,  to  get your email and  Internet
accounts setup. Mr. Poonam Chand Sankhla and Mr. Rinkesh Kumar Mangal will help you in this regard.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) …
6.  What else do I need to do to settle in?
Visit  the  Office  of  Stores  &  Purchase  to  understand  how  to  meet  your  requirements  like,  laptop/desktop,
printer, stationery etc. Mr. Sharabh Pradhan will help you in this regard.
7.  What about Library Membership, Identity Card and my profile on Institute Website?
  You will receive a welcome mail from Library along with Membership Form. You can fill it and visit the Library
to  get  your  biometric  fingerprint  recorded  for  accessing  Library.  Mr.  Chhatwani  will  help  you  with  Library
  You can also complete the formalities for getting an Identity Card in the Library itself.
  Once you get your email account set up, contact Mr. Ram Singh Ratnu to host your profile and webpage on the
8.  What about reimbursement of relocation expenses?
This  covers  airfare,  by  Air  India  and  transportation  cost  of  personal  belongings  from  your  place  of  work  to
Jodhpur.  The Office of Establishment assists in handling claims for relocation expense reimbursement. You will get
enough  time  for  submitting  your  claim,  up  to  1  year  from  the  date  of  your  joining;  particularly  useful  for  faculty
relocating from abroad. Since claim can be submitted only once, be sure to complete all the components of your
relocation before claiming the reimbursement. The maximum amount reimbursable is Rs.1.5 lakhs.
9.  What research equipment are available at the Institute level and how can I access them?
You will find a list of research equipment in the section on Research Equipment, which are located in the Center
for Advanced Scientific Equipment (CASE). Apart from these, your Head of the Department will be able to provide
you with the list of research equipment available in your department.
10.  How can I open a Bank Account?
State Bank of India (SBI) IIT Jodhpur Branch is conveniently located on campus, in the Community Center. If
you don’t already have an SBI account, do open one as soon as possible. Your pay will directly be deposited to your
SBI account. You will need the following to open an account.
1.  Three passport size photographs
2.  Proof of address, like, Driving License/ Passport/ Institute ID
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) …
11.  Where  can  I  get  necessary  forms,  regulations,  guidelines  and  procedures  etc.  that  are  required  for  me  to  get
introduced to the Institute’s system?
You  can  look  up  various  forms  and  guidelines  on  the  Institute  Communications  Repository  linked  on  the
12.  How can I get an Aadhar Card, a PAN Card and an account in New Pension Scheme (NPS)?
Office of Accounts and Establishment will guide you in the process of acquiring them.
13.  What kind of medical services are available on campus and what are the Institute’s authorised medical facilities in
A medical booklet on request is issued by the Office of Establishment. The booklet is mandatory to record your
visits to the medical center. As detailed in the section on Health Care, the Institute has a dedicated Primary Health
Center on campus besides having formal arrangements with several hospitals in Jodhpur City. The contact numbers
of Doctors in PHC are provided in the list appended at the end. You can also talk to  Dr. Nirmal Rana, Chairman of
Institute’s Medical Services Committee for more details.
14.  Upon my arrival in the Institute, where can I stay till my stay arrangement works out for the long run?
You can avail transit accommodation at the Institute’s Guest House upto a period of 30 days. Within this period,
the Institute will try to offer suitable accommodation on the residential campus, if available.
15.  Whom do I approach for Housing?
Usually, the Institute provides on-campus housing to all Faculty Members. You can contact the Estate Officer
from the Office of Estate, Mr. Amardeep Sharma for allocation of a house on campus.
16.  How do I know some of the decent residential localities where houses can be rented in case campus housing is not
The major residential areas  in Jodhpur  are located about  15 kms away from the campus. Decent housing is
available in Nagori Bera behind KV-BSF, Paota, Ratanada and Chopasni Housing Board areas. Of these, Nagori Bera is
the closest, followed by Paota and Ratanada. Institute’s buses run through these areas.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) …
17.  Whom do I contact for gas connection?
There is an Indane Gas Distributor in Mandore area who caters to the cooking gas requirement in the Institute.
You can contact Mr. Abhinav Sharma, Messrs. H. N. Gas Service (98290 21472). More details in the appended list at the
18.  What about transport to and from Jodhpur City?
City buses ply regularly from Karwad to Jodhpur City, and the Institute has a dedicated bus service to and from
the  City  of  Jodhpur,  for  all  residents  and  school  going  children  of  employees,  at  regular  intervals.  These  buses
commence from the rear side of the Dining Hall on campus. You can look up the Bus Schedule on the Institute’s
You can also call for a cab  from  Messrs. Balaji Tours. Contact Mr. Hanuman Ram Jani on 94141 79386, 98280
19.  Where can I buy mattress, cooktops, utensils, etc. household stuff in city?
There are several good outlets in Jodhpur City to purchase regular household items and consumer durables.
National Handloom Corporation Ltd. Has several branches dotted throughout the city, with the one at Circuit House
near Ratanada being the one stop shop for almost all goods. Besides this, there are several shops on Railway Station
Road, like the Salujas, Bhoot Brothers, and many more in Sardarpura B Road, Sardarpura C Road areas of Jodhpur.
Also, there are Big Bazar and Reliance Trends outlets located between the Railway Station and Sardarpura.
20.  Can I get a list of names of schools for children in Jodhpur?
IIT Jodhpur has a Kendriya Vidyalaya on its campus, where children of Faculty Members and Staff Members
study.  Presently,  the  school  runs  Classes  I  to  VIII.  Also,  there  are  a  number  of  good  schools  in  the  city,  in  which
children of Faculty Members and Staff Members of IIT Jodhpur study. These include: Delhi Public School, Sri Aurobindo
International, Vidhyashram International School, Rajmata Krishna Kumari Girls Public School, Mayoor Chopasni School,
Saint Patrick’s Vidya Bhawan, Saint Anne’s School, Saint Paul’s School, Central Academy, Euro School, Army School of
Desert Hawks and Happy Hours, to name a few.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
21.  What about transportation inside the campus?
While all buildings on campus are at a walkable distance, cycling is a great way to get around the campus. You
can get a bicycle from one of the good cycle shops in Jodhpur City, like, Ajit Cycle Store in Ratanada, or P. C. Bhandari
Cycles in Nai Sadak.
Mr. Kailash offers cycle repair service on campus and is available near Student Hostel area. Be sure to call him
over phone (81074 78083) before taking your cycle for a service or any repair.
List of Important Contacts
Institute Dining Hall
Mr. Sanju Singh
Manager, Shakti Kitchen Services Private Limited
Food Court & Restaurant
Mr. Manohar Singh
Manager, Thar Oasis Resort & Company Pvt. Ltd.
Primary Health Center (IITJ PHC)
Dr. Suyash Goyal, MD (MHA)
Director, Goyal Hospital & Research Center, Jodhpur
Dr. A. S. Deora, MD (Medicine)
Physician & Officer in-Charge, IITJ PHC
Dr. Gaurav Rodiwal, MBBS
Dr. Khatri, MS (General Physician)
Mr. Narayan Rajpurohit
Grocery Store, Rajpurohit Trading Company
Mr. Mahendra Soni
Stationery Store, Mahendra Stationers
Vegetable, Fruit Vendor & Milk Supplier
Mr. Raju Dan Charan
Vegetable and Fruits Store
List of Important Contacts
Mrs. Shephali Solanki
Ladies Beauty Parlour, Sondaryam A Sofy’s Salon
Mr. Ramesh Kumar
Gents Salon, Kishan Beauty Parlor
Mr. Mohit Jain
Manager, G.S.J. Company Private Limited
Mineral Water Supplier
Mr. Virma Ram
Mahadev RO Water Supplier
Mr. Deepak Solanki
LPG Cooking Gas
Mr. Abhinav Sharma & Mrs. Mukta Sharma
Indane Gas Distributor
M/s. H. N. Gas Service
Kishore Bagh, Mandore Road
Mr. Hanuman Ram Jani
M/s Balaji Transport Services, Jodhpur
Cycle Repair Services
95716 78456, 82391 27513
93147 22466, 90575 86192
List of Important Contacts
Supply and installation of AC
Mr. Mukesh Asthana
Supply and installation of RO/UV Water Purifier
Supply and installation of Washing Machine & other Electrical Appliances
Mr. Amit Jhala
Mr. Narendra Bohra
Mr. Sanjay Singh
Mr. Naresh Suthar
State Bank of India, IIT Jodhpur
Mr. Narendra Singh
Institute’s Logistics Services
Col. P. S. Rathore
Jabbar Singh Rathore
94617 58907, 96108 12292
85028 95345, 95216 43513
Apply online at:
For any query, please contact:
Professor Santanu Chaudhury
For more information, please visit:
with us on :
© Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur