Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Academic Affairs (Admissions)
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwar,
Jodhpur, Rajasthan - 342 030
Admission to M.Tech. Degree Programmes, AY 2026-27
Applications are invited for admission to M.Tech. Degree programmes in the AY 2026-2027.
These  M.Tech.  Degree  programmes have been designed to empower students with the
competencies  to  handle  state-of-the-art  technologies  in  various  disciplines,  with  a
strong focus on promoting inter-disciplinary innovation.
1  Bioscience and Bioengineering  M.Tech. in Bioscience and Bioengineering
2  Computer Science and
M.Tech. in Artificial Intelligence
M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech. in Cyber Physical Systems
M.Tech. in Communication Systems
M.Tech. in Microelectronics and VLSI
M.Tech. in Data and Computational Sciences
5  Mechanical Engineering
M.Tech. in Advanced  Manufacturing  and Design
M.Tech. in Thermofluids Engineering
M.Tech in Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies
6  Materials Engineering
M.Tech. in Materials Engineering
7  Chemical Engineering
M.Tech. in Chemical Engineering
8  Civil and Infrastructure
M.Tech. in Environmental Engineering
M.Tech. in Energy Infrastructure
M.Tech. in Bridge Engineering
9  School of Artificial Intelligence
& Data Science
M.Tech. in Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality
(AR & VR)
10  IDRD-Robotics and Mobility
M.Tech.  in Robotics
11  IDRD-Quantum Information and
M.Tech. in Quantum Technologies
These  programmes  will  admit  eligible  Full-Time  regular  candidates  with/without  assistantships,
self-sponsored  candidates  as  well  as  working  professionals  as  part-time/external/full-time
sponsored candidates. The details of these categories are summarized as follows:
(a)  M.Tech.  Admissions  Categories:  A candidate can be admitted in M.Tech. program in any
one of the following categories:
Full-time  Regular  eligible  for  Assistantship/Fellowship:  This  category  refers  to
candidates  who  will  be  in  campus  and  who  can  register  up   to   full   permissible   credits
per  semester.   A  fixed  number  of  full-time  candidates having a valid GATE Score will get
financial  support  as  per  MoE  notified  rate.  A  full-time  student with a   valid   GATE   Score
can   also  get  financial support from sponsored research projects funded by an industry or
a  government agency at a rate equivalent to or higher than MoE stipulated rate.
Full-time  Regular  without  Assistantship/Fellowship:This  category
candidates  who  will  be  in  campus  and  who can register for up to full permissible credits
per    semester.    A    GATE    qualified    candidate  will  be  admitted  under  this  category
without  financial  support.   The  admitted  candidate  may  be  awarded  fellowship  in  the
subsequent  semester  based  upon  availability  of  financial  resources  as  per  the  institute
norms.   All  candidates  admitted  under  this  category,  will  be  paying  the  same  fees  as
applicable to the category Full-time Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship.
Self-sponsored:This  category  refers to   candidates who will be in campus and  who can
register  for  up  to  full  permissible  credits  per  semester  but  is  not  eligible  to  receive
fellowship.  These  candidates  will  be  self-  sponsored  and  will  be  paying  fees  as per rates
notified for this category of students.
Full-time   Sponsored:    This  category  refers  to   candidates who will be in campus and
who   can   register   for   up   to   full  credit permissible  per semester  and is sponsored  by
his/her  employer.  Sponsorship  fees will be notified by the institute.
V.  Part-time:   A   part-time   candidate   is   a   working   professional   who,  while  employed,
attends   regular   classes   as   per   the   schedule   of   the   Institute.   The student must be
employed in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOC from the
employer for pursuing the programme at IIT Jodhpur.   The student can register only for a
limited number of credits as compared to a full-time regular student. As per credit tuition
fee will be specified.
VI.  Part-time  (online):  A  part-time  (online)  candidate  is a working professional who, while
employed, attends classes in a synchronous audio-visual mode over the internet as per the
schedule  of  the  Institute  including  limited  contact  sessions.   The  student  is  expected  to
register for a limited number of credits per semester.  The student should not be employed
in the neighbourhood of IIT Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOC from the employer
for  pursuing  the  programme  at  IIT  Jodhpur.    The student can register only for a limited
number of credits as compared to a full-time regular student. As per credit tuition fee will
VII.  Part-time  (Project  sponsored):  This  category  refers  to  a  part-time  candidate  who
would receive fellowship at the rate stipulated by the MoE or greater through any research
project  running  in  the  Institute.  The  student  can  register  only  for  a  limited  number  of
credits  as  compared  to  a  full-time  regular   student.The  student  is  expected  to  receive
fellowship for a minimum of 36 months. The student will be paying fees at the same rate
as  that  of  Full-Time  GATE  Qualified  candidates.  The  Department  will  process  the
applications ONLY if such a position is available in the respective M. Tech. program.
A.  Application  Procedure:  Applicants  are  requested  to  use  the  following  link(s)  to  fill  and
submit the application form online:
For  Indian-  https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=47  (M.Tech  programs)
For Foreign Nationals - Online link updated soon.
For admission to the AY 2026-2027 First Semester commencing in July 2026, this online link will
remain active till 15 April, 2026 (Tentative).
Applicants  are  required  to  pay  the  processing  fee  of  Rs.300  (for  one  programme)  for
General  and  OBC  applicants  and  Rs.150  (for  one  programme)  for  SC,  ST,  and  PwD
applicants  online  while  submitting  the  application  form.  If  any  candidate  applies  for
more  than  one  programme,  the  processing  fee  for  each  of  the  programmes  will
automatically be summed.
Candidates  are  advised  to  select  the  appropriate  Admission  Category  strictly  as  per  the
prescribed eligibility criteria while filling out the application form. Requests for any change in the
Admission Category will not be entertained at any stage. In the event that a candidate is selected
for multiple programmes, the candidate must pay the full admission fees for the programme they
wish  to  pursue  and  apply  for  withdrawal  from  the  previously  admitted  programme,  as  per  the
applicable refund rules.
For  technical  assistance  related  to  the  online  application,  applicants  may  write  to  erp@iitj.ac.in
The general queries may be directed to the respective departments the contact details provided in
Section-J  of  this  Advertisement.  However,  please  note  that  queries  related  to  eligibility  for  the
admission will not be entertained.
Please Note: All qualified applicants, interested to apply for M.Tech. programme under
the  admission  category  Full-time  Regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship, should
register  first  in  the  Common  Offer  Acceptance  Portal  (COAP).  After  successful
completion of registration at COAP 2026, applicants will receive the "COAP Registration
No.",  which is essential to apply online at IIT Jodhpur. The "COAP Registration No." is
further  required  for  making  decisions  against  admission  offers  during  the  time
windows  to  be  announced  on  the  COAP  2026  portal.   Candidates  without  GATE  (i.e
B.Tech. from CFTIs, part-time, sponsored and external) will be informed directly by the
concerned Department of IIT Jodhpur.
The  admissions  to  M.Tech.   Program   is   also   offered   to   foreign   nationals   under   different
schemes   administered   by   Government   of  India,   such   as  Cultural   Exchange   Fellowship
Programme   by  Indian  Council  of  Cultural  Relations  (ICCR),  Study  in  India and others. Persons
Commission/Embassy    in    their    respective    countries.   For   general   queries,   international
candidates may refer to https://iitj.ac.in/office-of-international-relations
these  programmes  are
Applicants  from  Defence  Forces  may  be  considered  for  admission  to  the  external  M.Tech.
programme.   Eligibility criteria for applicants from Defence Forces will be the same as that of the
regular  students  with  an  exemption  of  GATE  score.  The  program  will  be  governed  by  the
academic  norms  of  the  IITJ.   The  respective  organization  has  to  ensure  and  undertake  the
responsibility  for  giving  adequate  facilities  and  time  to  the  officer  during  the  Coursework  and
C. Eligibility for Admission
The  eligibility  criteria  for  M.Tech.  programs  prescribed  below  are  the  absolute  minimum.  The
general eligibility criteria for admissions is as follows:
(i) The applicant must have a bachelor's degree in engineering or science (4 year program) or
a master’s degree in science, MCA, Pharmacy, Medical Sciences, Agricultural Sciences and
Veterinary Sciences or in a related field.
(ii)   A minimum  of 60% marks for GEN/OBC  (55% for SC/ST/PwD)  category  in aggregate or
as  specified  by  the  university/institute  or  a  minimum  CGPA of 6.0 for GEN/OBC (5.5 for
SC/ST/PD)    category    on    the    scale    of    10;    with    corresponding    proportional
requirements   when   the   scales   are   other   than  on 10 (for  example  4.8 for GEN/OBC
category  (4.4  for  SC/ST/PwD)   on  a  scale  of  8)  or  a  first-class   as  specified   by  the
university/institute.  The  candidates  from  the  CFTI  having  CGPA/CPI  more  than  8
may be given preference.
(iii)  Full-time  Regular  eligible  for  Assistantship/Fellowship:  The  applicant  must  either
have a valid GATE score or exempted from GATE as per MoE circular or have qualified an
equivalent National   Examination   and / or   have   qualified   in   the  written  test  and/or
interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
For  Part-time/  Part-time (online)/ External/ Employer Sponsored: The applicant
must  have  a  minimum   of  two  years  of  work  experience   (after  qualifying   degree)  in
industry/R&D  laboratories/Academic  Institutions   at   the   time   of   registration   to   the
program.   The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT
The  qualifying  degree  and  GATE  requirements  (only  for  Full-time  Regular  eligible  for
Assistantship/Fellowship  and  Full-time  Regular  without  Assistantship/Fellowship),  specific  to
different M.Tech. programs, can be summarized as follows:
(1) For Bioscience and Bioengineering:
B.Tech. or B.E.
Valid GATE score in XL, BT, BM
B.  Tech.  from  any  of  the  CFTIs  with  CPI  or  CGPA
8/10 or above
The requirement of valid GATE score   is
(2) For Artificial Intelligence (CSE Dept):
B.Tech or B.E. or BS Program of 4 years (any Branch
of  Engineering),  M.Sc.  (any  discipline),  M.C.A.,  M.
Valid GATE score (CS/ IT/ EE/ EC/ DA)
B. Tech. or BS Program of 4 years from any branch
of  Engineering  or  M.  Statistics,  from  any  of  the
CFTI with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above.
The  requirement  of  valid  GATE  score  is
(3) For Computer Science and Engineering:
B.Tech or B.E. or BS Program of 4 years (Computer
Science  and  Engineering;   Computer  Engineering;
Electronics  Engineering;   Electrical  Engineering;
Communication Engineering;   Artificial Intelligence;
or  any  other  degree name involving a combination
of  above  disciplines),    M.Sc.  (Computer  Science;
Computer Engineering);  M.C.A.
Valid GATE score (in CS/IT)
B.Tech.  or  B.E.  or  BS  Program  of  4  years  from
(Computer  Science  and  Engineering;  Computer
Engineering;  Information  Technology;     Computer
The  requirement   of  valid  GATE
score is exempted
Engineering;  Communication  Engineering;  Artificial
Intelligence;  or  any  other  degree  name  involving  a
combination  of  above  disciplines),  M.Sc.  (Computer
Science;  Computer  Engineering)  any  of  the  CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above
(4) For Cyber Physical Systems (EE Dept) :
B. Tech. or B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) Program of 4
in  Electrical  Engineering/Electronics  and
Engineering/  Computer  Science  and  Engineering  or
B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering/ Electronics and
Communication Engineering/ Instrumentation
Engineering/Computer Science and Engineering or
Equivalent from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA
(5) For Communication Systems (EE Dept):
Valid GATE score in EE/EC/ IN/ CS
The  requirement  of  valid  GATE  score  is
B. Tech. or B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in
Electrical Engineering/ Electronics and
B. Tech. in Electrical Engineering/
Electronics and Communication
Engineering from any of the CFTIs with
CPI or CGPA of 8/10 or above
Valid GATE  score in EC
The  requirement   of  valid  GATE  score  is
(6) For Data and Computational Sciences (Mathematics Dept):
B.Tech. or B.E. or M.Sc., or equivalent
Valid  GATE   score  (Computer   Science
and   Information Technology,  Electronics
Statistics,  Engineering  Sciences  &  Data
Science & AI )
B.  Tech.   from  any  of  the  CFTIs   with  CPI  or  CGPA
8/10 or above
The  requirement   of  valid  GATE  score  is
(7) For Advanced Manufacturing and Design (ME Dept):
B.Tech.  or  B.E.  (Mechanical  Engineering,  Production
Engineering,  Industrial  Engineering,  Production  and
Industrial  Engineering,  Aerospace  Engineering,
Engineering,  Applied  Mechanics,
Valid  GATE  score  (in  Mechanical
Automobile  Engineering,  Aeronautical  Engineering,
Power  plant  engineering,  Nanotechnology,  Materials
Engineering, Instrumentation Engineering)
Engineering/ Engineering science)
The requirement of valid GATE score
Tech.  or  B.E.
Production  Engineering,  Industrial  Engineering,
Aerospace  Engineering,  Mechatronics  Engineering,
Applied  Mechanics,  Automobile  Engineering,
Engineering,  Instrumentation  Engineering)
from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA 8/10
(8) For Thermofluids Engineering (ME Dept):
Engineering/Aerospace  Engineering  /
Engineering/ Engineering science)
The  requirement  of  valid  GATE
score is exempted
Mechatronics Engineering, Applied Mechanics,
B.Tech. or B.E. (Mechanical Engineering Production
Engineering,  Applied  Mechanics,  Automobile
Engineering,  Aeronautical  Engineering,  Power
plant  engineering,  Nanotechnology,  Materials
from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA 8/10
(9) For  Materials Engineering (MTE Dept):
B.Tech.  or  B.E.  or  BS  Program  of  4  years  or
equivalent or M.Sc.
Valid GATE  score (in any discipline)
B.  Tech.  or  B.E.  from  any  of  the  CFTIs  with  CPI  or
CGPA 8/10 or above
The  requirement  of  a  valid  GATE  score
(10) For Chemical Engineering (Chemical Dept):
B.Tech. or B.E. or BS Program of 4 years, or
B.Sc.(Engg) Program of 4 years or M.Sc., or
equivalent in Chemical Engineering or allied
Valid GATE score (in any discipline)
B.Tech.  (Chemical  Engineering  or  allied  discipline)
from   any  of  the  CFTIs   with  CPI  or  CGPA  8/10  or
The  requirement   of valid GATE score is
(11) For Environmental Engineering (Civil Dept):
Engineering or Environmental Engineering
Valid  GATE  score  (Civil  Engineering  /
B.  Tech.  in  Civil  Engineering  or  Environmental
Engineering from any of the CFTIs with CPI or CGPA
8/10 or above
The  requirement  of  valid  GATE  score  is
(12) For Energy Infrastructure (Civil Dept):
Valid GATE score (Civil Engineering)
B.  Tech.  in  Civil  Engineering  from  any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above
The  requirement   of valid GATE score is
(13) For Robotics:
in  Mechanical  Engineering/
B. Tech. or B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) Program of 4
Electrical  and  Communication
Engineering/   Computer  Science  and  Engineering/
Instrumentation and Control Engineering/ Aerospace
Engineering/  Automobile  Engineering/  Aeronautical
Engineering,  Mechatronics  Engineering/  AI  &  DS  or
in  Mechanical  Engineering/  Electrical
Electrical  and  Communication
Engineering/   Computer  Science  and  Engineering/
Aerospace  Engineering/   Automobile   Engineering/
Communication  Engineering/  Computer
Science  and  Information  Technology/
Electrical  Engineering/  Instrumentation
Engineering/  Mechanical  Engineering,
Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
The  requirement  of  valid  GATE  Score  is
Aeronautical Engineering/   Engineering   Physics / AI
&  DS   or Equivalent from any of the CFTIs with CPI
or CGPA of 8/10 or above
(14)  For  Augmented  Reality  and  Virtual  Reality  (AR  &  VR)-  School  of  Artificial
Intelligence & Data Science (SAIDE):
Valid GATE score
B. Tech. from any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above:
The requirement of valid GATE score is
(15) For Interdisciplinary Research Platform- Quantum Information and Computation
B.Tech.  or  B.E.
in  Computer  Science  and
Engineering,  Electrical  Engineering,  Data  Science
Communication Engineering, Materials Engineering
Valid GATE score
M.Sc. In Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Computer
B.  Tech.  or  BS  Program  of 4 years from any branch
of Engineering /Sciences from any of the CFTIs with
CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above.
The requirement of valid
GATE core is exempted
Assistantship/Fellowship,  Full-time  Regular  without  Assistantship/Fellowship,
Self-sponsored, Full-time  Sponsored is allowed in the Sl (15).
(16) For  Microelectronics and VLSI (EE Dept):
B.  Tech.  or  B.E.  or  B.Sc.  (Engineering)  in  Electrical
Engineering / Electrical and Electronics Engineering /
/  Electronics  and
Engineering or allied discipline
B.  Tech.  or  B.E.  or  B.Sc.  (Engineering)  in  Electrical
Engineering/Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineering  /
Engineering or allied discipline from any of the CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA of 8/10
/  Electronics  and
Valid GATE score in EE/EC/IN
The requirement of valid GATE score is
(17) For Bridge Engineering (Civil Dept)
in  Civil   Valid GATE score (Civil Engineering)
B.  Tech.  in  Civil  Engineering  from  any  of  the  CFTIs
with CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above
The  requirement  of  valid  GATE  score  is
(18) For Drone and Anti-Drone Technologies
B. Tech. or B.E. in Aerospace/ Aeronautical
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering/ Production
Engineering/ Automobile Engineering/
Mechatronics Engineering/ Electrical Engineering/
Electronics and Communication Engineering/
Instrumentation and Control Engineering
in  Aerospace/  Aeronautical
B.  Tech.  or  B.E.
Engineering,  Mechanical  Engineering/  Production
Engineering/  Automobile  Engineering/Mechatronics
Engineering/  Electrical  Engineering/  Electronics  and
Communication  Engineering/  Instrumentation  and
Control  Engineering  from   any   of   the   CFTIs  with
CPI or CGPA 8/10 or above
D. Financial Assistance
Valid GATE score (in Aerospace
Civil Engineering/ Electronics and
The requirement  of valid GATE score
M.Tech.  (Full-time  Regular  eligible  for  Assistantship/Fellowship)  students  may  be  eligible  for  a
monthly stipend in return for 8 hours of  work per week of Teaching or Research Assistantships as
per the Institute norms.
E. Reservation Policy
The norms of reservation for different categories shall be adopted as laid down by the Ministry of
Education, Government of India.
F.  Documents  to  Bring  at  the  time  for  Written  Test  and/or  Interview:  Shortlisted
candidates  must  bring  the  following  documents  (a)  Signed  copy  of  ERP  Application  form  (b)
Uploaded all educational documents and other documents required for the minimum eligibility for
a given admission category sought by the respective Department and Valid GATE Scorecard.
G. Important Dates
Start date of filling online application  form
Last date of filling online application  form
02 Feb 2026
15 April 2026
Announcement of shortlisted candidates for the admission process
(Full-time regular without fellowship, Self Sponsored, Full time
sponsored, Part Time and Part Time (Online)
Admission Process for Full-Time Regular With Fellowship through
25 Apr 2026
Follow the COAP 2026
*  The  candidates  applied  for  the  admission  for  different  M.Tech.   programmes  under  admission
category  Full-time  Regular  eligible  for  Assistantship/Fellowship  are  required  to  take  their
decisions according to COAP 2026 rounds guidelines.
* List of CFTIs Institute link: https://www.education.gov.in/technical-education-1
* More details about the Academic Regulations of IIT Jodhpur can found HERE
H. Accommodation: Admitted students under various categories may be provided with
institute hostel accommodation, subject to availability and according to the Institute
norms amended from time to time.
I. Important Note on Eligibility and Admission Cancellation
“IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to immediately cancel the admission of any candidate
at  any  stage  of  the  admission  process  or  at  any  stage  of  the  program,  if it is found
that  the  candidate  does  not  fulfill  the  prescribed  eligibility  criteria  as  per  the  official
advertisement  or  the  candidate  has  provided  incorrect/incomplete information in the
Application Form. The decision of the Institute in such matters will be final and will be
binding  on the candidates. All legal matters shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the
Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only."
J. Whom to contact
In  case  of  any  query,  the applicants may contact the respective department to which they are
applying, using the contact information which is listed below:
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure  Engineering
IDRP-Robotics and Mobility Systems
IDRP-Quantum Information & Computation
School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science  0291-2801752  office_saide@iitj.ac.in