Advanced Functional Materials Laboratory | Chemistry | IIT Jodhpur
Advanced Functional Materials Laboratory
Advanced Functional Materials and Interfaces is a interdisciplinary field with chemistry playing a central role. Chemistry Department has a broad range of interests across the fields of materials and interfaces. Amongst these are materials exhibiting interesting optical, electronic, magnetic, catalytic and mechanical properties. The discovery, understanding and development of these materials is central to providing solutions in areas ranging from energy, healthcare, electronics, and catalysis. The research includes development of new synthetic techniques enabling the preparation of a range of well-defined nanoparticles, 2-D nanosheets and heirarcical complex nanostructures. We focus on developing materials amenable to patterning and printing over large areas for scalable nanomanufacturing.  Dr. Ritu Gupta’s Research Group  work on developing large scale methods for synthesis of nanomaterials and translating them into devices for application in Energy, Water and Healthcare. The present interest includes application of nanomaterials in areas related to water treatment, energy storage devices, photoelectrochemical devices, environmental gas sensors and healthcare devices. Advanced Functional Materials and Interfaces
Facilities Available in the Laboratory (  Download file: 161 KB) for the list
Laboratory Users: Student Name Details Research Topic Gaurav Bahuguna PhD(R.G) (2016-Present) Fluorination of Materials for Energy Storage and Environmental Sensors Ajay B. Urgunde PhD(R.G) (2016-Present) Ni-Co based Functional Inks for Application in Energy and Biosensing Mohit  PhD(R.G) (2018-Present) Photoactive Functional Nanomaterials for Solar application Anandita  PhD(R.G) (2019-Present) Nanomaterials for Environmental and Healthcare Sensors  Parijat P Das MSc(R.G) (2019-Present) Waste Polymer to Graphitic Carbon for Corrosion Resistant Coatings
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 12 Mar 2026 - 03:42 PM