SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
The School of Management and Entrepreneurship, IIT Jodhpur is delighted to announce the successful
completion of 100 percent summer placements for the MBA cohort of 2023-25. This marks the fourth
consecutive year that our institution has achieved this remarkable milestone, which is a testament to the
unwavering commitment of our faculty and students toward excellence in education.
With the addition of 50+ new campus recruitment partners, this placement season witnessed more than
60 companies conducting the recruitment process and offering attractive opportunities to our students.
Tide, EY, Maxlife Insurance, Accenture, Bank of Baroda, Mediversal Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., Aditya Birla
Group, Lava, AU Bank and many more esteemed organizations joined hands with us for the summer
placements. This season, we also witnessed a remarkable improvement in the number of corporate
We would like to extend our deepest gratitude to all our campus partners, faculty, staff, alumni, and
students for contributing extensively to making this summer placement a grand success. We would like
to appreciate their continued confidence in us throughout this zealous endeavor, and we look forward to
amplifying the bond we have forged.
As the Head of School of Management and Entrepreneurship (SME), IIT Jodhpur, I extend a warm welcome and
best wishes to all the potential and current recruiters and encourage them to establish a bond with SME and its
pool of brilliant students. At SME, with our carefully curated academic programs, live international partners and
joint  programs  in  cutting-edge  areas  of  management  and  technology,  dynamic  collaborations  with  Industry
experts,  we  always  put  all  our  efforts  to  prepare  our  students  as  future-ready  managers  and  business  leaders.  I
wish to assure the recruiting team that they will find value in our students which is unmatched elsewhere.
Prof. Chhanda Chakraborti
Head SME-IIT Jodhpur
School of management and entrepreneurship (SME) is a young management institute formed under the aegis of
IIT Jodhpur in 2019. The MBA and Tech MBA programs offered at SME are based on an industry 4.0 curriculum,
which not only provides academic rigour to the students but also brings in the softer aspect of decision making.
It is imperative to prepare leaders on global platforms to become holistic, well rounded human beings. Because
in  businesses,  values  are  ultimately  what  matters.  At  SME,  we  strive  to  imbibe  the  right  fundamental  values
based on the integrity, transparency, role of business in society as part of management education.
Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor
Chairperson - Corporate Relations and Campus Placements Committee,
TOTAL BATCH SIZE
TOTAL OFFERS MADE
ADDED IN SIP’24
TOP SECTORS OFFERING ROLES TO
CORPORATE RELATIONS AND CAMPUS
PLACEMENTS TEAM 2023-25
Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor
Dr. Devi Prasad Dash
Joint - Secretary
Joint - Secretary
Joint - Secretary
Joint - Secretary
Joint - Secretary
Joint - Secretary
Joint - Secretary
Siddhant S Thakur
Joint - Secretary
Joint - Secretary