Submitted Institute Data for NIRF'2025'
Institute Name: Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur [IR-M-U-0395]
Sanctioned (Approved) Intake
National Institutional Ranking Framework
Ministry of Education
Government of India
Welcome to Data Capturing System: MANAGEMENT
PG [2 Year Program(s)]
Total Actual Student Strength (Program(s) Offered by Your Institution)
of all years)
No. of Male
No. of Female
No. of students
from the State
No. of students
No. of students
from the Private
No. of students
who are not
PG [2 Year
Placement & Higher Studies
PG [2 Years Program(s)]: Placement & higher studies for previous 3 years
No. of first year
students intake in the
No. of first year
students admitted in
Ph.D Student Details (including Integrated Ph.D)
No. of students graduating in minimum
No. of students
No. of students
selected for Higher
Median salary of
Ph.D (Student pursuing doctoral program till 2023-24 Students admitted in the academic year 2024-25 should not be entered here.)
No. of Ph.D students graduated (including Integrated Ph.D)
Financial Resources: Utilised Amount for the Capital expenditure for previous 3 years
Annual Capital Expenditure on Academic Activities and Resources (excluding expenditure on buildings)
Library ( Books, Journals and e-Resources only)
2732660 (Twenty seven lakh thirty two thousand six hundred
2121989 (Twenty one lakh twenty one thousand nine hundred
982703 (Nine Lakh Eighty two thousand seven hundred three)
Expenditure on setting up/upgradation of laboratory
Other expenditure on creation of Capital Assets (For setting up
classrooms, seminar hall, conference hall , library excluding
expenditure on Land ,Building, Roads etc.)
Financial Resources: Utilised Amount for the Operational expenditure for previous 3 years
799970 (Seven lakh Ninety nine thousand nine hundred
334880 (Three Lakh Thiry four thousand Eight hundred Eighty)
Annual Operational Expenditure
Salaries (Teaching and Non Teaching staff)
44192518 (Four crore forty one lakh ninty two thousand five
38110899 (Three crore eighty one lakh ten thousand eight
hundred ninty nine)
25415976 (Two crore fifty four lakh fifteen thousand nine
hundred seventy six)
Maintenance of Academic Infrastructure or consumables and
other running expenditures(excluding maintenance of hostels
and allied services,rent of the building, depreciation cost, etc)
8558890 (Eighty Five Lakhs Fifty Eight Thousand Eight
Hundred and Ninety)
6123991 (Sixty One Lakhs Twenty Three Thousand Nine
Hundred and Ninety One)
3626786 (Thirty Six Lakhs Twenty Six Thousand Seven
Hundred and Eighty Six )
Sponsored Research Details
Total no. of Sponsored Projects
Total no. of Funding Agencies
Total Amount Received (Amount in Rupees)
Amount Received in Words
One crore seventy four lakh seventy one thousand seven
Sixteen Lakh Seventy five thousand
Eighteen Lakh Sixty Four Thousand
Consultancy Project Details
Total no. of Consultancy Projects
Total no. of Client Organizations
Total Amount Received (Amount in Rupees)
Amount Received in Words
Executive Development Program/Management Development Programs
Total no. of Executive Development Programs/ Management
Total no. of Participants
Total Annual Earnings (Amount in Rupees)(Excluding Lodging
& Boarding Charges)
Total Annual Earnings in Words
PCS Facilities: Facilities of physically challenged students
1. Do your institution buildings have Lifts/Ramps?
Yes, more than 80% of the buildings
2. Do your institution have provision for walking aids, including wheelchairs and transportation from one building to another for
3. Do your institution buildings have specially designed toilets for handicapped students?
Yes, more than 80% of the buildings
Venkat Ram Reddy
Anuj Pal Kapoor
Devi Prasad Dash
Mithu Rani Kuiti