Office of International Relations | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome To The Office Of International Relations
IIT Jodhpur is focusing on internationalization by fostering partnerships with Foreign Universities and institutions to collaborate in the areas of mutual interests of R&D and Academic Collaborations. Since its inception, IRO has worked proactively to establish International Partners by facilitating drawing up of MoUs and agreements between IIT Jodhpur and International institutions as well as developing proposals for collaboration, and providing the necessary administrative institutional support to operationalize these partners and collaborations. Moreover, IIT Jodhpur had also enrolled International students across various programs from Indonesia, Syria, Nepal and Bangladesh, through various initiatives of GoI such as ASEAN fellowship program, Study in India and ICCR and mutually agreed exchange program with foreign institutes.
The key activities of the Office of International Relations:
Exchange/visiting programs for students, faculty and researchers for the cooperation in educationand research
Admission of the international students to various academic programs of the Institute
Visits of the international academic and diplomatic delegations to the Institute, the Institute’s delegations to foreign universities to strengthen our existing collaborations and to forge new partnerships
Formulation and execution of MoUs and agreements between IITJ and partner Institute/organization
About IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was established in 2008, to foster technology education and research in India. The Institute is committed to technological thought and action to benefit the economic development of India. Scholarship in teaching and learning; Scholarship in research and creative accomplishments; and relevance to Industry are three driving forces for us at IIT Jodhpur. IIT Jodhpur functions from its sprawling residential Permanent Campus of 852 acres on National Highway 65, north-northwest of Jodhpur towards Nagaur. This campus is meticulously planned and envisioned to stand as a symbol of academics – simple, but deep. The Institute is committed to multidisciplinary approach of technology development. Hence, it has established state-of-the-art laboratories for basic research, and has organised its academic degree activities through Departments and its coordinated research through Centers for Technologies.
Direct Admission Channel IIT Jodhpur - Apply Here
Channels of Admission
New Student needs to apply in the respective website on the tab
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Master of Technology (M.Tech.)
M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree
M.Tech.-Ph.D. Dual Degree
Doctor of Philosophy
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
MDes XR Design
M.Sc. (Batch 2020) Mathematics
Current pursuing : Ph.D.(IIT Kharagpur)
Study in India
M.Tech. (Batch 2022) Computer Science & Engineering
Campus Placement: Google
Study in India
M.Tech. (Batch 2022) Computer Science & Engineering
Campus Placement: ICICI Bank
Study in India
M.Tech. (Batch 2022) Advanced Manufacturing & Design
Campus Placement: Lumiq AI
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 19 Feb 2026 - 12:31 PM