About Program | Centre of Excellence on Arts and Digital Immersion | IIT Jodhpur
The CoE on ADI is an academic unit of IIT Jodhpur. As an academic unit, it will contribute in teaching and research. Its flagship program is the M.S. by Research Program. M.S. (by Research) Program Centre of Excellence in Art and Digital Immersion, School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur, aims to offer unique opportunities to students with multiple possibilities for innovative and transdisciplinary research in the broad areas of traditional and emergent creative and performing arts with support from various disciplines. The program will encourage the students to be creative with new technologies and find new avenues for sustaining the art and the products of the art. The program will be flexible, interdisciplinary, futuristic, collaborative and the first of its kind in India, especially since the Indian art scene currently lacks such an initiative and it will strive to create an ongoing channel of communication between creative arts and emergent technologies such as AR, VR, ML, AI etc. The program will commence in July 2023. Expected Graduate Attributes After completing this programme, a student will have the ability to:  Employ tools and techniques of AI in creative arts Work with mixed-media art and its applications Adapt to and apply emerging technology trends like VR, AR, MR and XR to visual, performing, and performance arts Digital gaming in art Learning Outcome After completing this program the students will be able to: Demonstrate an understanding of tools and techniques of AI in creative arts Analyze issues pertaining to mixed-media art and its applications Apply emerging technological trends to visual, performing, and performance arts Design gaming and art Eligibility criteria: Candidates with good academic records with a B. Tech (4 years), or an M.A./M.Sc or its equivalent (5 years) Program Duration: 2-4 years for full-time students and 3-5 years for part-time students. Credit structure Coursework: 24 Credits Thesis component: 36 credits. At present, the M.S. (by Research) will offer research in two areas: Artificial Intelligence and Creative Arts Mixed-Media Art
AI and Creative Arts The intersection of AI and creative arts represent a dynamic and transformative field that explores the potential of artificial intelligence in enhancing and inspiring artistic endeavours. AI technologies, such as machine learning and deep neural networks, are being employed in various creative disciplines including visual arts, music composition, literature, and even performance arts. In visual arts, AI algorithms can generate original artwork, assist in image processing and manipulation, and even create new styles and aesthetics. In music composition, AI systems can compose original pieces, assist musicians in generating melodies, or even collaborate in real-time performances. In literature, AI can aid in language generation, automated storytelling, and text-based creativity. AI in creative arts provides artists with new tools and possibilities, pushing the boundaries of imagination and enabling novel forms of expression. However, ethical considerations, such as authorship and the impact on human creativity, continue to be subjects of debate. The exploration of AI in creative arts offers a promising avenue for innovation, collaboration, and the exploration of new artistic frontiers, while also raising profound questions about the nature of art and the role of technology in shaping our creative landscape.
New Media Art New media art continues pushing traditional art forms' boundaries and changing the notion of art production and consumption, and ownership. New media art blurs the boundaries between art, design, and computer science. Technologies like AR (Augmented Reality), VR (Virtual Reality), and MR (Mixed Reality) enhance the immersive qualities of art; it helps the artist create an alternative or imaginary reality. In new media, art artists manipulate images, sounds, video, or data using software programs, code interactive experiences, or create immersive virtual environments. Technology allows artists to explore new modes of expression, engage with the digital culture, and comment on technology's social and political implications The medium plays a vital role in art and immersion; all art forms need some or other enclosure through which artists disclose their imaginations. Each of these enclosures has its affordance; on canvas, one can draw and paint, and on stage, one can sing and dance. With the invention of the internet and AI, the canvas (affordance space) for creative people has become more extensive and dynamic. For instance, with the help of technology, contemporary artists are designing virtual reality experiences, internet-based art, video art, computer-generated imagery, and interactive installations where the audience experience the artwork through touch, voice, movement, or another form of interaction. The viewer engages with the artwork actively and becomes a part of the artwork. The themes explored in New Media Art are diverse and often reflect the concerns of the digital age. Artists may investigate issues such as identity, surveillance, virtual reality, artificial intelligence, data privacy, the impact of social media, or the relationship between humans and technology. They may critique or subvert existing systems or propose alternative visions of the future through their works. Coursework: There are no prescribed core or elective courses for this program. Relevant courses from the existing 600- and 700-level courses across the institute will be recommended by the ADI Research Committee depending on the research areas/interests of the student. The transdisciplinary nature of the program demands flexibility in administering its research components. The student can engage in research and coursework simultaneously. However, there might be a timeline for coursework completion to which the student needs to adhere to. There will also be possibilities for joint projects by students from different disciplines, with clear indications about the contributions of each student/discipline. Also, the thesis component will be specific for each. The program aims to be practice and/or skill-based and its end-products will be inclusive, with the potential for considering creative outputs such as new art forms in its fold. Transdisciplinary techno-humanities projects that lead to viable products, entrepreneurial ventures and generation of livelihood for disenfranchised artisans will be prioritized.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 12 Feb 2025 - 04:54 PM