Cell & Molecular Physiology Laboratory | Bioscience & Bioengineering | IIT Jodhpur
Cell & Molecular Physiology Laboratory
Faculty Members associated with the lab
(91 291) 280 1204
Groups under this theme
1. Inflammation, Immunity & Tumor Biology Group   As an institute of national importance our philosophy remains alignment with research problems relevant to the nation. In this regard we strategized to work on two leading healthcare issues in India; environmental pollution with nano silica and cancer (specifically the deadly brain tumours: gliomas). As we seek to understand the genetic landscape of cancer and inflammation related diseases in the Indian subcontinent we believe an interdisciplinary approach that comes naturally at an IIT would help provide critical insights into complex disease biology. In this regard, our laboratory has established collaborations with colleagues from within the department of bioscience and bioengineering, within the institute (department of computer science, mechanical engineering and humanities & social sciences) and across institutions (AIIMS Jodhpur and ACTREC, Mumbai). We are also part of the interdisciplinary research platform (IDRP) groups in Smart healthcare and Science of Intelligence. We have also, submitted a patent for the portable hypoxia chamber that we developed at IITJ. We are now in the process of translating this technology with the help of Industry partners.  We have assisted colleagues from Defense lab Jodhpur in Evaluating wound dressing properties of chitin membranes containing nano silver published in Biomedical Physics & Engineering Express,  IOPScience, Volume 4, Number 2, 2018, https://doi.org/10.1088/2057-1976/aaa9ca.  We have recently received funding from the Ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) for development of an interdisciplinary research platform for dissecting the complex cellular interactions using human tumor derived spheroids, computational biology and artificial intelligence based approaches.
Projects that the lab is currently catering to   1. Development of an AI platform for human health (Dr. Sushmita Jha, Co-PI) A collaborative, interdisciplinary research project for dissecting the complex cellular interactions using human tumor derived spheroids, computational biology and artificial intelligence based approaches funded by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeiTy).    2. The Genome India initiative  (Dr. Sushmita Jha, Co-PI)   3. Expression analysis of inflammasome-forming NLRs in gliomas for identification of novel therapeutic interventions (Dr. Sushmita Jha)
Key Instrumentation Available   1. Cell culture facility 2. Fluorescence microscope 3. Liquid nitrogen storage system 4. -20 °C freezer 5. Gel documentation system 6. -80 °C freezer 7. Microplate reader 8. Nanodrop spectrophotometer 9. Realtime PCR 10. Thermal cycler 11. Portable hypoxia chamber
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 10 Mar 2026 - 05:27 PM