Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
28th December, 2023
lIT Jodhpur (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment) Rules, 2023
The Board of Governors in its 35 th Meeting held on 2nd December, 2023 has approved the
IIT Jodhpur (prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment) Rules, 2023 framed in
line with The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
The lIT Jodhpur (prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment) Rules, 2023 are
enclosed as Annexure.
(Dr. Somnath Ghosh)
Offg. Registrar &.Secretary, BoG
1. All Faculty Members
2. All Staff Members
3. All Students
Internal Complaints Committee (ICC)
Copy to for kind information:
1. The Director
2. The Deputy Director
3. All Deans j Associate Deans /Head of Deptts.j Schoolsj Centers/ Division
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
35t h Meeting of Board of Governors
2 nd December, 2023 (Saturday); 12:00 P.M.; Board Room, liT Jodhpur
Annexure AP 35- 3
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
(PREVENTION, PROIDBITION AND REDRESSAL OF
SEXUAL HARRASSMENT) RUIR\ 2023
Short title, applicability and commencement:
These Rules are to be called the liT, Jodhpur (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal of Sexual Harassment) Rules, 2023.
These Rules shall be applicable in respect of those cases wherein a
complaint of sexual harassment has been made to the Internal
Committee of liT, Jodhpur.
They shall come into force on the date of approval by the Board of
In the following liT Jodhpur Rules, unless the context
otherwise requires -
"Aggrieved Person" means:
any student of any sex or gender of liT, Jodhpur; or
any employee of any sex or gender of liT, Jodhpur; or
any woman of any age whether employed or not, who alleges to
have been subjected to any act of sexual harassment by the
respondent on the campus of liT, Jodhpur;
"Act" means the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (Act No. 14 of
2013) as amended from time to time;
"Board of Governors" means the Board of Governors of Indian
Institute of Technology, Jodhpur;
"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Internal Committee
nominated under these Rules;
"Campus" means and includes the location or the land on which the
Institute and its premises are situated;
"Employee" means a person employed at
liT, Jodhpur for any work
on regular, temporary, ad hoc or daily wage basis, either directly or
through an agent,
including a contractor, with or, without
knowledge of the principal employer, whether for remuneration or
not, or working on a voluntary basis or otherwise, whether the terms
of employment are express or implied and includes a co-worker, a
contract worker, probationer,
trainee, apprentice or called by any
other such name;
"Director" means the Director of
Indian Institute of Technology,
"liT Jodhpur" means the Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur as
incorporated under the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961;
"Internal Committee" means
constituted by the Institute under section 4 of the Act;
"Institute" means the Indian Institute of Technology, Jodhpur;
"Member" means the member(s) of
the Internal Committee
constituted by the Director in conformity with provisions of Section
2(h) of the Act and includes its Chairperson;
"Sexual Harassment" means:
An unwanted conduct with sexual undertones or which is
persistent and which demeans, humiliates or creates a
hostile and intimidating environment or is calculated to
consequences and includes anyone or more or all of the
following unwelcome acts or behaviour (whether directly or
by implication), namely: -
any unwelcome physical, verbal, or non-verbal conduct
of sexual nature;
demand or request for sexual favours;
making sexually coloured remarks;
physical contact and advances; or
The following circumstances, among other circumstances, in
relation to or connected with any act or behaviour of sexual
harassment may amount to sexual harassment: -
implied or explicit promise of preferential treatment as
quid pro quo for sexual favours;
implied or explicit threat of detrimental treatmentin the
conduct of work;
implied or explicit threat about the present or future
status of the person concerned;
creating an intimidating offensive or hostile learning
humiliating treatment likely to affect the health, safety
or physical integrity ofthe person concerned;
"Student" means a person duly admitted and pursuing a
programme of study either through regular mode or any other
including a non-degree or short-term programme
Provided that a student who is in the process of taking admission in
the Institute, although not yet admitted, shall be treated, for the
purposes of these Rules, as a student of the Institute;
"Workplace" means the campus of the Institute and also includes
extended workplace and covers within its scope places visited as a
student or employee of
the Institute including transportation
provided for the purpose of commuting to and from the Institute,
the locations outside the Institute on field/industrial
seminars, conferences, workshops,
internships, study tours,
excursions, short-term placements, places used for camps, cultural
festivals, sports meets and other activities where a student or
employee is participating in the capacity of a student or employee
"Rules" would, unless the context otherwise indicate, mean 'The
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Rules, 2013'.
The Internal Committee and its Composition: The Director of
Institute shall have the powers to constitute the Internal Committee in
conformity with the provisions of Section 4(1) of the Act in the following
manner, namely: -
Professor/member, Board of Governors of the Institute;
one person from each department of the Institute from amongst the
academic staff of the department concerned;
one person from amongst the non-academic staff of the Institute;
two persons from amongst academic/non-academic staff of the
Institute committed to the cause of women or who has had
experience in social work or have legal knowledge;
one external member
fraternity or non
governmental organizations or associations committed to the cause of
women or a person familiar with the issues relating to sexual
one secretarial staff who will be convenor of the Internal Committee
but will not have any powers as a member of the Internal Committee:
the total members
(excluding secretarial staff) be so nominated shall be women.
The Presiding Officer and every member of the Committee shall hold office
for such period, for three years from the date of their nomination or as may
be specified by the Board of Governors. Post completion, the tenure may
be extended for another term of three years.
The Internal Committee shall have a quorum comprising of a minimum of five
(5) members including the Chairperson and the External member.
The inquiry into any Complaint shall be made by the Internal Committee in
accordance with the principles of natural justice.
Complaint of sexual harassment: An aggrieved person shall submit a
written complaint to the Internal Committee within three months from
the date ofthe incident and in case of a series of incidents within a period
of three months from the date of the last incident. The complaint should
contain the name and contact details of the aggrieved person, details of
the nature of harassment, date and time of the incident, and the name of
the person against whom the complaint is being lodged. It should contain,
wherever possible, a list of witnesses and other evidence in support of
In exceptional circumstances and for reasons to be recorded in writing,
the IC may take suo-motu cognizance of grievances relating to sexual
harassment and initiate appropriate inquiry.
The process for making complaint and conducting Inquirv: The Internal
Committee shall comply with the procedure prescribed in these Rules and
the Act for making a complaint and inquiring into the complaint in a time
bound manner. The Institute shall provide all necessary facilities to the
Internal Committee to conduct the inquiry expeditiously and with required
Conciliation: The aggrieved person may seek conciliation in order to
settle the matter. No monetary settlement should be made as a basis of
conciliation. The Internal Committee shall also ensure that the conciliation
is not being sought by the complainant under duress. Where a settlement
is arrived at, copies of the settlement shall be provided to the aggrieved
person and the respondent, and no further inquiry shall be conducted by
the Internal Committee.
Confidentiality: The Internal Committee and all
those in the chain of
information flow of
including but not
limited to the
member of the Institute, academic/ non-academic staff, witnesses etc.,
are duty bound to keep all
information confidential and breach of any
the Internal Committee in
accordance with the Institute's policy on misconduct.
Applicability of CCS Rules: In the case the respondent is governed by CCS
Rules, the IC shall make preliminary/ fact finding inquiry and refer the
same to the Disciplinary Authority under CCS Rules for further action.
Process of conducting an Inquiry:
The Internal Committee shall, upon receipt of the complaint shall
person and take the statement of
complainant. Such statement should be recorded and signed by
them with the date and time of recording. Simultaneously,
Internal Committee shall
send one copy of the complaint to the
respondent within a period of seven days of such receipt.
Upon receipt of the copy of the complaint, the respondent shall
his or her reply to the complaint along with the list of documents,
and names and addresses of witnesses, if any, within a period of
When the respondent appears before the Internal Committee and
the allegations made against him/her,
Committee shall be required to prepare its report and submit the
same to the Director of the Institute within ten days.
If the respondent does not accept
interview all such witnesses and call to it all such
evidence as maybe needed to investigate the complaint.
While recording the statement of the complainant/ respondent or
his/her witnesses, the Internal Committee shall ensure compliance
of the rules of natural
justice. Provided that in order to ensure
safety, security and privacy of
the witnesses concerned,
Internal Committee will not allow cross-examination of
complainant or her/his witnesses in person. However, under such
cross examination may be permitted through
question-answer mode in writing.
The identities of
the aggrieved person or
the victim or
witness/es or the respondent / offender shall not be made public.
During the pendency of the inquiry, on a written request made by
the aggrieved person,
the Internal Committee may make such
interim recommendations to the Director as may be consistent
with the practice and conventions of the Institute.
the Internal Committee arrives at a conclusion that
allegations against the respondent are false and malicious it will
recommend appropriate punitive measures to be taken against the
complainant. Mere inability to substantiate a complaint or provide
adequate proof need not attract such punitive action aga inst the
The inquiry has to be completed within a period of ninety days
from the receipt of the complaint.
Inquiry Report :
The Internal Committee shall consider all
facts and statements
placed before it and conclude its findings . The finding so concluded
is to be given to both the parties, providing them a maximum of 3
days t ime to submit their representation, if any. After considering
the representation submitted,
if any, by the parties,
The original copy of
together with statements of
witnesses and other annexures/exhibits shall be submitted by the
Internal Committee to the Director of the Institute within ten days
of completion of the Inquiry.
The Director of the Institute shall cause the implementation of the
recommendations of the committee within a period of thirty days
fromthe receipt of the inquiry report.