Collaboration with Academia | Office of Academics Affairs | IIT Jodhpur
Collaboration with Academia
The Institute has signed Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with six international universities, two international agencies, three national institutes and universities, and one national agency for furthering cooperation on specific fronts. These MoUs are:
International Institutes and Universities
University of Western Ontario, Canada (09/08/2010): Explore possibilities for cooperation in education, training, and research and also to encourage direct contact and mutual cooperation between faculty members, departments, and research centers.
Universitat Rovira I Virgili, Tarrgona, Spain (29/08/2010): Develop mutually beneficial academic program and courses; coordination of academic staff travel for the purposes of teaching, research, and training; cooperation of student mobility program for study, research, and for joint academic activities such as research publications, conferences and symposia; exchange of documentation and research materials in the field of mutual interest provided that there are no legal barriers against exchange and collaboration in international master’s and doctoral programs between both the institutions.
University of Waterloo, Canada (25/11/2010): Collaborate to foster international experience and advancement of knowledge on the basis of reciprocity, mutual benefit, interaction and exchange of students in graduate programs.
University of Manitoba, Canada (09/12/2010): Develop mutually beneficial programs for student internships and graduate study in order to provide students opportunities for advancement of knowledge and international experience.
University of California, Merced, USA (26/04/2011): Develop mutually beneficial relationships for promoting academic exchange, scholarly cooperation, and collaborations under mutually agreeable terms and conditions: the exchange of faculty members, scientists and students and scientific material, access to library resources, pursuit of joint meetings, symposia and/or conferences and access to laboratories as may be appropriate and feasible in the two institutes.
Institute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan (28/02/2012): Promote academic exchanges in fields where each party needs to enhance its educational and academic programs: the academic exchanges will include, implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures and education and exchange of scholars, researchers, and administrative staff; exchange of information in fields which are of interest to both parties and exchange of graduate students in fields of interest to both parties.
Nara Institute of Science and Technology, Japan (01/05/2019): Promote academic exchanges in the fields were each party needs to enhance its educational and academic programs.the academic exchanges will include, implementation of collaborative research, joint symposia, lectures and education and exchange of scholars, researchers, and administrative staff to be involved in such implementation.
The Commissariat a I’Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives, France (22/11/2010): Cooperate in areas of solar energy research, such as Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) and Concentrated Photovoltaic (CPV), water production by using solar energy, renewable energy storage and smart management, integration of solar energies and energy efficiency in buildings.
Embassy of France in India (28/03/2011): Explore prospective domains for students and scholars to learn French language effectively.
National Institutes and Universities
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur: Collaborate in various academic activties in the spheres of expertise.
National Law University, Jodhpur: Collaborate in various academic activities in the spheres of expertise.
Sardar Patel University of Police, Security, and Criminal Justice, Jodhpur (12/06/2013): Promote academic exchanges in fields where each party needs to enhance its educational and academic programs.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 02 Mar 2026 - 11:36 AM