Student Achievements Archive | School of Liberal Arts | IIT Jodhpur
Student Achievements Archive
Shyan Pal, an Msc CSS first-year student, is selected as a summer intern by PwC India. He will be joining as a paid intern in their Economics and Policy practice team for a period of two months.
Amir Sohel & Dr. Farhat Naz
Presented a paper titled “Politics of Forest Rights in India: Un/Re-Doing Historical Injustice to Forest-Dwelling Communities?” at World Convention, Injustice in a World of Uncertainty, in Mikkeli, Finland.
Samya Brata Roy
Presented a paper titled “Politics of Forest Rights in India: Un/Re-Doing Historical Injustice to Forest-Dwelling Communities?” at World Convention, Injustice in a World of Uncertainty, in Mikkeli, Finland.
Samya Brata Roy
Published a book chapter on “Hitman 2 and its Spectre of Mumbai: A city lost in translation”: Literary Cultures and Digital Humanities in India, eds. Nishat Zaidi and A. Sean Pue, Routledge India, ISBN 9781032406756, with Routledge India, December 2022.
Samyukthah. A & Sanskriti. K
Presented a paper on “‘Volk’ and the ‘Hysterical’ Laugh of the Medusa in Suspiria (2018): The Agency of Female Body” at the Queen Mary University of London, June 11, 2022.
Presented a paper on, “Narrative Self and Cultural Context,” at the Graduate Research Meet by Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, on 7 January 2023.
Presented a paper on, “Cine-buildings and the Question of Access: Interdisciplinary Interventions through ‘Space’” at the Graduate Research Meet by Humanities and Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati on 6 January 2023.
Presented a paper on, “Narrative Self: Uses of Reward to Describe Ourselves,” at the 95th Indian Philosophical Congress on 29 December 2022.
Swarnima Banerjee & Samya Brata Roy
Presented a paper on, “Detecting the Quotidian and Challenging Cultural Commodification: A Case Study of ‘Sharodiya Pujabarshikis’ from India,” at the BCLA, Faculty of English, the University of Oxford on 30th September 2022.
Presented a paper on “Farming the Wind: Exploring Energy Transition in the Thar Desert of Rajasthan, India” at the International Doctorate Program ‘Rethinking Environment IDK UmWeltDenken’, University of Augsburg, Germany, June 24-6 2022.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 10:51 PM