FAQs | School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science | IIT Jodhpur
When can I apply for a particular program?
Applications follow the academic cycle, with one round in May-June (for program start in August) and another in November-December (for program start in January). Please see the Admissions page under Join Us for more details. You can also visit advertisements page of IIT Jodhpur https://iitj.ac.in/academics/misc.php?id=advertisements
What are the eligibility criteria, academic credentials, and minimal requirements for candidates applying for the Ph.D at School of AI and Data Science?
The applicants must have a master’s degree in engineering, science, humanities, social sciences, or equivalent with at least 60% marks or a 6.0/10 CGPA. Certain professional qualifications (e.g., MBBS with MD) are also accepted​ OR The applicant must have a bachelor’s degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary science or design or architecture or equivalent with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (65% for SC/ST/PD).
What is the difference between full-time and part-time Ph.D. programs?
Full-time students dedicate all their time to research, while part-time students are working professionals, often employed by external organizations, and are required to attend the program with limited credits
What is the application process for applying to the Ph.D. program at the School of AI and Data Science?
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application form online: https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=56 Applicants are required to pay the processing fee of Rs.300 for General, GEN-EWS, OBC and Rs.150 for SC, ST, and PD applicants online while submitting the application form. Applicants shortlisted for the written test and/or interview will be required to bring the final submitted application form duly signed along with a copy of all educational documents and GATE/NET(JRF)/CEED/NBHM (or equivalent) score card at the time of written test and/or interview.
What is Reseach Purposal?
A research proposal, in the context of IIT Jodhpur’s postgraduate program, is a report and presentation prepared by Ph.D. or M.Tech.-Ph.D. students after completing the State of Art Seminar (SOTA). The proposal outlines the chosen research topic and its objectives, presenting the foundational work for the thesis. It must include research work equivalent to 16 credits and is evaluated by the Student Research Committee (SRC), which allocates a letter grade based on the performance. Successfully completing the research proposal defense is a key step toward becoming a Ph.D. candidate
What is Teaching Assistantship ?
A Teaching Assistantship (TA) is a form of financial assistance provided to eligible M.Tech. and Ph.D. students at IIT Jodhpur. In exchange for this financial aid, students are required to assist faculty members with teaching-related activities such as conducting tutorials, grading assignments, and helping in labs. The assistantship also serves as a professional development opportunity for students, providing teaching experience while they pursue their studies. For the continuation of the assistantship, M.Tech. students must maintain a minimum CGPA of 6.0, and Ph.D. students must maintain a CGPA of 6.5
What is the minimum and maximum duration to complete the M.S. by Research program?
A full-time M.S. by Research student can complete the program between 2 years (minimum) to 4 years (maximum). A part-time student can complete the program between 3 years (minimum) to 5 years (maximum)
What is the credit requirement for M.S. by Research students?
Students need to complete 24 credits through coursework and 36 credits through research​
How many credits can a student register for in a semester?
Full-time students can register for a maximum of 16 credits and a minimum of 6 credits. Part-time students can register for 12 to 3 credits per semester
Can M.S. by Research students change their program to a Ph.D.?
The M.S. by Research Degree can be upgraded to Ph.D. based on the CGPA (>7.5) and progress of the student after 3 Semesters for regular students; however, transition will require continuation of the same work and the student has to satisfy regular PhD requirements. All conditions of Ph.D. degree program will be applicable to all such students. All such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate.
What is the comprehensive examination?
The comprehensive exam tests the student’s general and specific knowledge in their research field. It includes written tests, and students have two chances to pass​
How many credits are required for a Ph.D.?
Ph.D. students must complete a minimum of 12 to 24 credits through coursework and 48 credits through thesis work, depending on their prior qualifications​
What is the comprehensive examination?
The comprehensive exam tests the student’s general and specific knowledge in their research field. It includes written tests, and students have two chances to pass​
What is the primary focus of the M.Tech. programme in AR & VR?
The M.Tech. programme in AR & VR focuses on providing students with interdisciplinary knowledge and practical skills required to design, implement, and evaluate Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality applications. It covers core concepts in graphics, immersive experiences, content creation, and the development of next-generation AR/VR systems for various industries.
What is the Leave Policy for M.Tech. ,M.S. by Research and Ph.D. Students at IIT Jodhpur?
In an academic year, a maximum of 30 days may be taken, including absence for medical reasons and the mid-semester break. Although the student is permitted to register for leave during the mid-semester break or the summer/winter term, they must do so in advance. PhD and M.S. by Research students are prohibited from taking more than 15 days of absence at a time. It is prohibited for an M.Tech./M.Sc. student to take leave for more than 10 consecutive days. For exceptional circumstances, DRC may grant leave beyond 30 days in an academic year without an assistantship during that time.
Which specific domains of AI are emphasized in the PhD program?
In order to acquire additional information on research, you may visit the faculty page on our school’s website (https://aide.iitj.ac.in/faculty/).
Are there specific research groups or labs available for prospective PhD candidates to join?
Kindly visit our website’s facilities and labs page at https://aide.iitj.ac.in/labs/ to obtain further information about the available research groups and laboratories.
Is there financial assistance available for M.S. by Research students?
Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted under regular full-time program. The regular M.S. by Research students would get fellowship/assistantship up to a maximum of 2 years as JRF starting from the date of registration. In exceptional cases, the fellowship can be extended to a maximum of one more year depending on the work done and the recommendations of the supervisor and SRC.
What financial support is available for Ph.D. students?
The applicants must have a master’s degree in engineering, science, humanities, social sciences, or equivalent with at least 60% marks or
What is the maximum duration of a Ph.D. program?
14 registered semesters which may include maximum 6 semesters of Registration kept Alive (RKA) after completion of the two semesters. Tuition fee post RKA will be the same as that of sponsored candidates.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 28 Jan 2026 - 08:18 PM