from our first batch
As a student at IIT Jodhpur's Computational Social Science program, I have had a fulfilling
campus life. The program offers a rigorous academic curriculum combined with exciting
research opportunities and a vibrant student community. The people around me, including
my peers and professors, have been incredibly inspiring and have challenged me to grow
both personally and academically."
"As a current student pursuing a Master's degree in CSS, I am thrilled
with the education I am receiving. The coursework is challenging and
relevant to real world problems. The professors are not just highly
knowledgeable but also extremely supportive. The small cohort size
provides with excellent opportunities to connect and network with diverse
groups of students and professors. I would recommend this programme
to self-motivated individuals seeking quality education."
"I am indebted for all the efforts made by my professors. I was
exposed to cutting-edge technology and tools at IIT Jodhpur,
which enabled me to learn in a very natural way. A combination
of education, entertainment, and the incorporation of abiding
values are provided by School of Liberal Arts, IIT Jodhpur. As I'm
studying Computational Social Science, the course material
covers a wide range of topics, so I always learn something new.
The overall learning environment facilitates learning and fosters
the spirit of standing out among the talented and diligent
"As a student of Computational Social Science at IIT Jodhpur, I have
been impressed with the breadth and depth of academic opportunities
available to me. The School of Liberal Arts has provided me with a
unique learning experience, allowing me to engage with humanities and
social science courses that complement my technical training. Overall, I
am incredibly grateful for the stimulating academic environment
provided by IIT Jodhpur and would recommend it to any student
interested in pursuing Computational Social Science."
I"ITJ Sola showed me that there are people that do share
similar thought process as I do. It felt like home but not a
home at the same time. It sounds weird but that's what I