P R E F A C E
1. General Financial Rules (GFRs) are a compilation of rules and orders of Government of India to be followed by
all  while  dealing  with  matters  involving  public  finances.  These  rules  and  orders  are  treated  as  executive
instructions to be observed by all Departments and Organisations under the Government and specified Bodies
except otherwise provided for in these Rules.
2. General Financial Rules were issued for the first time in 1947 bringing together in one place all existing orders
and instructions pertaining to financial matters. These have subsequently been modified and issued as GFRs
1963 and GFRs 2005.
In the last few years, Government has made many innovative changes in the way it conducts its business. Reforms
in Government budgeting like removal of distinction in non-plan and plan expenditure, merger of Railway
Budget  with  General  Budget,  focusing  on  outcomes  through  an  improved  Outcome  Budget  document,  all
needed to be reflected in the GFRs.  Increased focus on Public Finance Management System(PFMS), reliance on
the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) Scheme to ensure efficient delivery of entitlements, introduction of new e-sites
like Central Public Procurement Portal, Government    e-Marketing (GeM) Portal,  Non-Tax Revenue Portal have
also necessitated revision of the existing GFRs to keep them in tune with the changing business environment. The
objective  was  to  make  the  GFRs  facilitate  efficiency  rather  than  create  impediments  in  smooth  and  timely
implementation  while  following  principles  of  accountability  and  procedures  of  financial  discipline  and
administrative due diligence. The Expenditure Management Commission set up in 2014 to recommend ways in
which efficiency of public expenditure could be increased has also made several recommendations especially
with respect to Autonomous Bodies. New rules on non-tax revenues, user charges, e-receipts portal have been
added in addition to the manner in which Autonomous Bodies are run.
The PAC in April 2015, Group of Secretaries in February 2016 and EMC in March 2016 has recommended
setting up a Task Force to review the GFRs so as to frame comprehensive rules to address the issues as highlighted
in the above para.
5. GFRs,  2017  have  evolved  as  a  result  of  wide  consultations  with  Central  Government  Ministries  and
Departments, some State Governments and other stakeholders at the Task Force stage and thereafter. The
Discussion  Draft  was  also  uploaded  on  the  MoF’s  website.  Secretaries  of  each  Department/  Ministry  of
Government of India were asked to give their views for additions/ modifications, keeping in view their specific
requirements  of  their  domain.  Detailed  deliberations  were  also  carried  out  within  the  Ministry.  C&AG’s
comments on the draft GFRs have also been taken into consideration.
The aim of any rule is to provide a framework within which an organization manages its business in a financially
prudent manner without compromising its flexibility to deal with varied situations. The GFRs 2005 have been very
comprehensively reviewed with the aim of promoting simplicity and transparency in the Government financial
system and procedures.  It is expected that the new GFRs 2017 will enable an improved, efficient and effective
framework of fiscal management while providing the necessary flexibility to facilitate timely delivery of services.
7. Department of Expenditure would like to place on record the exceptional work done by the Task Force on Review
of GFRs, the office of the C&AG, the office of the CGA, Budget Division of Department of Economic Affairs, the
Ministries  and  Departments  for  their  valuable  inputs  and  its  own  officers  for  assiduously  and  meticulously
completing this vital and challenging exercise in a time bound manner.
North Block, New Delhi
Dated: 11th February, 2017
Finance Secretary &
Department of Expenditure
Ministry of Finance
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter   Name of the Chapter
General System of Financial Management
I. General Principles relating to expenditure and payment of money 12
II. Defalcation and losses
III.Submission of records & information
Budget formulation and implementation.
Procurement of Goods and Services
I. Procurement of Goods
II. Procurement of Services
Grants-in-aid and Loans
Budgeting and Accounting for Externally Aided Projects
Refund of revenue
Debt and misc. obligations of Govt.
Transfer of land and buildings
Charitable endowments and other trusts
VIII. Maintenance of records
Contingent and Miscellaneous Expenditure.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Instructions for regulating the Enforcement of
Responsibility for losses, etc.,
Procedure for the preparation of Detailed Estimates of Receipts
Instructions for the preparation of Detailed Estimates of
expenditure from the Consolidated Fund
Procedure for compilation of Detailed Demands for Grants
Procedure to be followed in connection with the Demands for
The Contingency Fund of India Rules
Transfer of Land and Buildings between the Union and
Charitable Endowments and other Trusts
Destruction of Office Records connected with Accounts.
Check against provision of funds
Formula for Price Variation Clause
Rates of Guarantee Fee
Application for an Additional Appropriation
GFR 2 - A
Estimates of foreign grants
GFR 2 - B
Estimates of interest receipts and loan repayments
GFR 3 - A
Statement of proposals for pre-budget discussions
Register showing expenses by Heads of Account
Broadsheet for watching receipt of account from Disbursing Officers 159
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Broadsheet for watching Receipt of the Returns from the Heads of
Departments under a Department of the Central Government
Report of Surplus, Obsolete and Unserviceable Stores for Disposal
GFR 12 - A  Form of Utilization Certificate (Autonomous Bodies)
GFR 12 - B  Form of Utilization Certificate (For Loans)
GFR 12 - C  Form of Utilization Certificate (State Governments))
Statement of aggregate balance of loan(s) outstanding as on
31st March and details of defaults
Form of Security Bond (Fidelity Bond Deposited as Security)
Form of Written Undertaking to be executed by an Undertaking/
Corporation wholly owned by the Central Government at the
time of sanctioning of a loan.
Certificate of transfer of charge
GFR 16 - A
Fidelity Guarantee Policy
Notice to borrower about the due date for repayment of
loan and interest thereon
Register of Policy Holder
Register of Grants to be maintained by the sanctioning Authority.
Register of Fixed Assets
Stock Register of consumables such as Stationery, Chemicals,
Spare parts etc.
Register of Assets of Historical /Artistic value.
Furnishing of data regarding Guarantees to Ministry of Finance.
Chapter – 1
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Rule 1  Short  Title  and  Commencement:  These
rules may be called General Financial Rules,
2017 and they shall come into force at once
and  shall  be  applicable  to  all  Central
attached  and  subordinate  bodies.  The
provisions contained in GFRs are deemed to
be applicable to Autonomous Bodies except
to the extent the bye-laws of an Autonomous
Body  provides  for  separate  Financial  Rules
which  have  been  approved  by
Rule 2 Definition : In these rules, unless the context
“Accounts  Officer ”  means
Head of an Office of Accounts or the
Head  of  a  Pay  and  Accounts
Office  set  up  under  the  scheme  of
departmentalization of accounts;
“ A d m i n i s t r a t o r ”   m e a n s
Administrator of a Union Territory, by
whatever name designated;
t h e
“A p p r o p r i a t i o n”   m e a n s
to  meet  specified
expenditure,  of  funds  included  in  a
primary unit of appropriation;
“Audit Officer” means the Head of
an Office of Audit;
“Competent  Authority”  means,  in
respect of the power to be exercised
under any of these Rules, the President
or  such  other  authority  to  which  the
power is delegated by or under these
Rules, Delegation of Financial Power
Rules or any other general or special
orders  issued  by  the  Government  of
“ C o m p t r o l l e r   a n d   A u d i t o r
General”  means  the  Comptroller
and Auditor General of India;
“Consolidated  Fund”  means  the
Consolidated  Fund  of  India  referred
in  Article  266
(viii) “ C o n s t i t u t i o n ”   m e a n s
t h e
Constitution of  India;
“Contingency  Fund”  means  the
C o n t i n g e n c y   F u n d   o f
I n d i a
established  under  the  Contingency
Fund of India Act, 1950, in terms of
Article 267 (1) of the Constitution;
“Controlling  Officer”  means  an
officer entrusted by a Department of
the  Central  Government  with  the
the  First  Schedule
responsibility  of  controlling  the
incurring  of  expenditure  and/or  the
collection  of  revenue.  The  term  shall
include  a  Head  of  Department  and
also an Administrator;
“Department of the Government of
India”  means  any  of  the  Ministries,
Departments, Secretariats and Offices
as notified from time to time and listed
Government  of  India  (Allocation  of
“Drawing and Disbursing Officer”
means a Head of Office and also any
other Gazetted Officer so designated
by  a  Department  of  the  Central
Government, a Head of Department
or an Administrator, to draw bills and
make  payments  on  behalf  of  the
Central  Government.  The  term  shall
also include a Head of Department or
an  Administrator  where  he  himself
discharges such function;
(xiii) “Ministry  of  Finance”  means  the
Ministry  of  Finance  of  the  Central
(xiv) “Financial  Year”  means  the  year
beginning  on  the  1st  of  April  and
the  31st  of  March
“Government”  means  the  Central
(xvi) “Government  Account”  means  the
account  relating  to  the  Consolidated
Fund, the Contingency Fund and the
Public  Account;  as  defined  in  these
(xvii) “Head  of  the  Department’  means
an authority or person (not below the
rank  of  a  Deputy  Secretary  to  the
Government of India), declared by the
Government  of  India  as  a  Head  of
i d e n t i f i a b l e   e s t a b l i s h m e n t   o r
to  exercise  the
delegated  financial  powers  under
(xviii) “Head  of  Office”  means  (a)  a
Gazetted Officer declared as such in
the  Delegation  of  Financial  Powers
Rules  and  (b)  any  other  authority
declared as such under any general or
special  orders  of
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 1
(xix) “Local  Body”  means  an  authority
l e g a l l y   e n t i t l e d   o r   s p e c i a l l y
empowered  by  Government
administer a local fund;
“Local Fund” means a local fund as
defined  in  Rule  652  of  the  Treasury
(xxi) “Non-recurring  expenditure”
means  expenditure  other
(xxii) “President”  means  the  President  of
(xxiii) “Primary  unit  of  appropriation”
m e a n s   a   p r i m a r y   u n i t   o f
appropriation referred to in Rule 8 of
the  Delegation  of  Financial  Powers
(xxiv) “Public  Account”  means  the  Public
Account of India referred to in Article
266 (2) of the Constitution;
(xxv) “Public  Works”  means  civil/
buildings,  public  services,  transport
infrastructure  etc.,  both  original  and
repair works and   any other project,
including  infrastructure  which  is  for
the use of general public;
(xxvi) “Re-appropriation”  means
transfer  of  funds  from  one  primary
unit of appropriation to another such
(xxvii) “Recurring expenditure” means the
expenditure  which  is  incurred  at
periodical  intervals  for  the  same
purpose.  Expenditures  other
recurring  expenditure  are  non-
(xxviii)“Reserve Bank” means the Reserve
Bank of India or any office or agency
of  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and
includes any Bank acting as the agent
of  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  in
accordance with the provisions of the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Act II
(xxix) “Subordinate  authority”  means  a
D e p a r t m e n t   o f
t h e   C e n t r a l
Government  or  any  authority
subordinate to the President;
(xxx) “Treasury Rules” means the Treasury
Rules of the Central Government;
(xxxi) CAPEX model: In the CAPEX Model,
Capital  expenditures  is  used  by  the
buyer to straightway purchase goods
f o l l o w e d   b y   p r o c u r e m e n t   o f
c o n s u m a b l e s ,   a r r a n g i n g
comprehensive  maintenance  contact
after  warranty  period  and  finally
disposing the product after useful life;
(xxxii) OPEX model: In the OPEX model, the
Seller provides the goods, maintains it
and also provides the consumables as
required  and  finally  takes  back  the
goods  after  useful  /  contracted  life.
The expenditure is made by the Buyer
in  a  staggered  manner  as  per  the
terms and conditions of the contract.
Interdepartmental  consultations:  When
the subject of a case concerns more than one
Department, no order shall be issued until all
such Departments have concurred, or, failing
such concurrence, a decision has been taken
by or under the authority of the Cabinet. In
this  regard  it  is  clarified  that  every  case  in
which a decision, if taken in one Department,
is likely to affect the transaction of business
allotted to another Department, shall also be
deemed to be a case which concerns more
than one Department.
Rule 4 Departmental  Regulations  of  financial
character: All Departmental regulations, in
so far as they embody orders or instructions
of  a  financial  character  or  have  important
financial bearing, must invariably be made
by,  or  with  the  approval  of  the  Ministry  of
Removal of Doubts: Where a doubt arises
as  to  the  interpretation  of  any  of  the
provisions of these Rules, the matter shall be
referred  to  the  Ministry  of  Finance  for
Rule 6  Modifications:
The  systems  and  procedures
established by these Rules are subject
to  general  or  special  instructions/
orders, which the Ministry of Finance
may issue from time to time.
The  systems  and  procedures
established  by  these  Rules  may  be
modified by any other authority only
with  the  express  approval  of  the
Ministry of Finance.
Chapter – 2
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL SYSTEM OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
All  moneys  received  by  or  on  behalf  of  the
Government either as dues of Government or
for deposit, remittance or otherwise, shall be
brought  into  Government  Account  without
delay,  in  accordance  with  such  general  or
special rules as may be issued under Articles
150 and 283 (1) of the Constitution.
(I) Under Article 284 of the Constitution all
moneys  received  by  or  deposited  with
any officer employed in connection with
the affairs of the Union in his capacity as
such,  other  than  revenues  or  public
moneys  raised  or  received  by
Government,  shall  be  paid  into  the
(ii) All moneys received by or deposited with
the Supreme Court of India or with any
other  Court,  other  than  a  High  Court,
within  a  Union  Territory,  shall  also  be
dealt with in accordance with Clause (i)
of sub-rule (1).
(2)  The  Head  of  Account  to  which  such
moneys shall be  credited and the withdrawal
of moneys therefrom shall be governed by the
relevant  provisions  of  Government
Accounting  Rules  1990  and  the  Central
Payments) Rules, 1983 or such other general
or  special  orders  as  may  be  issued  in  this
It is the duty of the Department of the Central
Government  concerned  to  ensure  that  the
receipts  and  dues  of  the  Government  are
correctly  and  promptly  assessed,  collected
and duly credited to the Consolidated Fund
or Public Account as the case may be.
Rule 10 The  Controlling  Officer  shall  arrange  to
obtain from his subordinate officers monthly
accounts  and  returns
claiming credit for the amounts paid into the
treasury  or  bank  as  the  case  may  be,  or
otherwise accounted for, and compare them
with the statements of credits furnished by the
Accounts  Officer  to  see  that  the  amounts
reported  as  collected  have  been  duly
credited. Accordingly, each Accounts Officer
will  send  an  extract  from  his  accounts
showing the amounts brought to credit in the
accounts  in  each  month  to  the  Controlling
Rule  11  (1) Detailed  rules  and  procedure  regarding
assessment, collection, allocation, remission
and  abandonment  of  revenue  and  other
receipts shall be laid down in the regulations
of the Department responsible for the same
Rule 11 (2)  In  Departments  in  which  officers  are
required  to  receive  moneys  on  behalf  of
Government  and  issue  receipts  therefor  in
Form  GAR-6  the  departmental  regulations
should  provide  for  the  maintenance  of  a
proper account of the receipt and issue of the
receipt books, the number of receipt books to
be issued at a time to each officer and a check
with the officer’s accounts of the used books
Rule 12  Amounts due to Government shall not be left
outstanding  without  sufficient  reasons.
Where  such  amounts  appear
irrecoverable,  the  orders  of  the  competent
authority  shall  be  obtained
Rule 13 Unless  specially  authorized  by  any  rule  or
order made by competent authority, no sums
shall  be  credited  as  revenue  by  debit  to  a
suspense  head.  The  credit  must  follow  and
not precede actual realization.
Rule 14 Subject  to  any  general  or  special  orders
issued  by  a  Department  of  the  Central
Government, an Administrator or a Head of a
Department responsible for the collection of
revenue shall keep the Finance Ministry fully
informed  of  the  progress  of  collection  of
revenue  under  his  control  and  of  all
important  variations  in  such  collections  as
compared with the Budget Estimates.
Rule 15 (1) Rents of buildings and lands.   When
the maintenance of any rentable building is
entrusted to a civil department, other than the
Central  Public  Works  Department,  the
Administrator or the Head of the Department
concerned  shall  be  responsible  for  the  due
recovery of the rent thereof.
Rule 15 (2)  The  procedure  for  the  assessment  and
recovery of rent of any building hired out will
be regulated generally by the rules applicable
to  buildings  under  the  direct  charge  of  the
Central Public Works Department.
Rule 15 (3)  The  detailed  rules  and  procedure,
regarding the demand and recovery of rent of
Government  buildings  and
contained in the departmental regulations of
the departments in charge of those buildings.
Rule 16 (1) Fines . Every authority having the power
to impose and/ or realize a fine shall ensure
that the money is realized, duly checked and
deposited into a treasury or bank as the case
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 2
Rule 16 (2)  Every  authority  having  the  power  to
refund fines shall ensure that the refunds are
checked and no double refunds of amounts
of  fines  collected  or  refunds  of  fines  not
actually paid into a treasury or bank as the
case may be, are made
Rule 17 Miscellaneous  Demands.  Accounts
Officers  shall  watch
the  realization  of
miscellaneous demands of Government, not
the  ordinary  revenue
administration,  such  as  contributions  from
State Governments, Local Funds, contractors
and others towards establishment charges.
Rule 18  Remission of Revenue. A claim to revenue
shall not be remitted or abandoned save with
the sanction of the competent authority.
Rule 19 (1) Subject to any general or special orders
issued  by  the  Government  Departments  of
the Central Government, Administrators and
Heads of Departments, other than those in
the  Department  of  Posts,  shall  submit
annually  on  the  1st  of  June  to  the  Audit
Officer and the Accounts Officer concerned,
the  remissions  of
revenue  and  abandonment  of  claims  to
revenue  sanctioned  during  the  preceding
year by competent authorities in exercise of
the  discretionary  powers  vested  in  them
otherwise than by law or rule having the force
of  law,  provided  that  individual  remissions
below  Rupees  one  thousand  need  not  be
included in the statements.
Rule 19 (2) For inclusion in the statements referred to
in  Rule  19  (1)  above,  remissions  and
abandonments should be classified broadly
with reference to the grounds on which they
were sanctioned and a total figure should be
given for each class. A brief explanation of
the  circumstances  leading  to  the  remission
should be added in the case of each class.
Rule 20 Departments of the Central Government and
Administrators  may  make  rules  defining
remissions  and  abandonments  of  revenue
for the purpose of Rule 19 above.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES RELATING TO
EXPENDITURE AND PAYMENT OF
Rule 21 Standards  of  financial  propriety.  Every
officer  incurring  or  authorizing  expenditure
from  public  moneys  should  be  guided  by
high  standards  of  financial  propriety.  Every
officer  should  also  enforce  financial  order
and strict economy and see that all relevant
financial rules and regulations are observed,
by  his  own  office  and  by  subordinate
disbursing officers. Among the principles on
which  emphasis  is  generally  laid  are  the
Every officer is expected to exercise the
in  respect  of
moneys  as  a  person  of  ordinary
prudence would exercise in respect of
expenditure of his own money.
The expenditure should not be prima
No  authority  should  exercise  its
powers of sanctioning expenditure to
pass an order which will be directly or
indirectly to its own advantage.
from  public  moneys
should not be incurred for the benefit
of a particular person or a section of
the people, unless –
(a) a  claim  for  the  amount  could  be
enforced in a Court of Law, or
(b) the expenditure is in pursuance of
a recognized policy or custom.
Rule 22  Expenditure  from  Public  Funds. No
authority may incur any expenditure or enter
into  any  liability  involving  expenditure  or
transfer of moneys for investment or deposit
from  public  funds  (Consolidated  Fund  /
Contingency Fund and the Public Accounts)
unless  the  same  has  been  sanctioned  by  a
Rule 23 Delegation  of  Financial  Powers.  The
financial  powers  of  the  Government  have
to  various  subordinate
authorities  vide  Delegation  of  Financial
Powers Rules  as amended from time to time.
The  financial  powers  of  the  Government,
which  have  not  been  delegated
subordinate  authority,  shall  vest  in  the
Rule 24 Consultation with Financial Advisers.  All
draft  memoranda  for  Expenditure  Finance
Committee  or  Public  Investment  Bureau  or
Committee  on  Establishment  Expenditure
and Cabinet Committee for Economic Affairs
or Cabinet shall be circulated by the Ministry
or Department concerned after consultation
with the concerned Financial Adviser of the
Chapter – 2
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Ministry  or  Department.  A  confirmation  to
this  effect  shall  be  included  in  the  draft
memorandum at the circulation stage.
Rule 25 (1)  Provision  of  funds  for  sanction.  All
sanctions to the expenditure shall indicate the
details of the provisions in the relevant grant
o r   a p p r o p r i a t i o n   w h e r e f r o m   s u c h
expenditure is to be met.
Rule 25 (2) All proposals for sanction to expenditure,
shall indicate whether such expenditure can
be  met  by  valid  appropriation  or  re-
Rule 25 (3) In cases where it becomes necessary to
issue a sanction to expenditure before funds
are  communicated,  the  sanction  should
specify that such expenditure is subjected to
funds being communicated in the budget of
Rule 26 Responsibility  of  Controlling  Officer  in
respect  of  Budget  allocation.  The  duties
and responsibilities of a controlling officer in
respect of funds placed at his disposal are to
that the expenditure does not exceed
the budget allocation.
that the expenditure is incurred for the
purpose  for  which  funds  have  been
that  the  expenditure  is  incurred  in
that  adequate  control  mechanism  is
functioning  in  his  Department  for
prevention,  detection  of  errors  and
proceedings of his subordinate offices
and to guard against waste and loss
of public money,
Rule  27  (1)  Date  of  effect  of  sanction.  Subject  to
fulfilment  of  the  provisions  as  contained  in
the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules, all
rules,  sanctions  or  orders  shall  come  into
force from the date of issue unless any other
date from which they shall come into force is
Rule 27 (2)  Date  of  creation  to  be  indicated  in
sanctions  for  temporary  posts.  Orders
sanctioning the creation of a temporary post
duration,  invariably  specify  the  date    from
which it is to be created
Rule 28 Powers in regard to certain special matters.—
delegation made by, or with the approval of
in  pursuance  of
the  President,  a  subordinate  authority  shall
not,  without  the  previous  consent  of  the
Finance Ministry, issue an order which -
involves  any  grant  of
assignment of revenue, or concession,
grant,  lease  or  licence  of  mineral  or
forest rights, or rights to water, power
or any easement or privilege of such
involves relinquishment of revenue in
Rule 29 Procedure  for  communication  of
sanctions. All financial sanctions and orders
issued  by  a  competent  authority  shall  be
communicated to the Audit Officer and the
Accounts  Officer.  The  procedure  to  be
followed  for  communication  of  financial
sanctions and orders will be as under :-
All  financial  sanctions  issued  by  a
D e p a r t m e n t   o f
t h e   C e n t r a l
Government which relate to a matter
concerning  the  Department  proper
and on the basis of which payment is
to  be  made  or  authorized  by  the
Accounts Officer, should be addressed
All other sanctions should be accorded
in the form of an Order, which need
not be addressed to any authority, but
a copy thereof should be endorsed to
the Accounts Officer concerned.
the  case  of  non-recurring
contingent  and  miscellaneous
expenditure, the sanctioning authority
may, where required, accord sanction
by signing or countersigning the bill or
voucher,  whether  before  or  after  the
money  is  drawn,  instead  of  by  a
All  financial  sanctions  and  orders
issued by a Department of the Central
Government with the concurrence of
the Internal Finance Wing or Finance
Ministry,  as  applicable,  should  be
communicated to the Accounts Officer
in accordance with the procedure laid
down  in  the  Delegation  of  Financial
Powers  Rules,  and  orders
thereunder from time to time.
All  financial  sanctions  and  orders
issued  by  a  Department  with  the
concurrence of the Ministry of Home
Affairs  or  Comptroller  and  Auditor
General  of  India  or  Department  of
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 2
Personnel  should  specify  that  the
sanction or orders are issued with the
along  with  the  number  and  date  of
relevant  communication  of
Department wherein the concurrence
All  orders  conveying  sanctions  to
expenditure  of  a  definite  amount  or
upto  a  specific  limit  should  express
both in words and figures the amount
of expenditure sanctioned.
Sanctions  accorded  by  a  Head  of
Department may be communicated to
the Accounts Officer by an authorized
Gazetted  Officer  of  his  Office  duly
signed  by  him  for  the  Head  of
Department or conveyed in the name
of the Head of the Department.
(viii) All orders conveying sanctions to the
grant  of  additions  to  pay  such  as
Special Allowance, Personal Pay, etc.,
should contain a brief summary of the
the  grant  of  such
additions to pay so as to enable the
Accounts  Officer  to  see  that  it  is
t e r m e d   a s   S p e c i a l
c o r r e c t l y
Allowance, Personal Pay, etc., as the
case may be.
(ix) Orders issued by a Department of a
Union  Territory  Government  where
Audit and Accounts (a) have not been
separated  shall  be  communicated
direct to the Audit authority; (b) have
been  separated,  copies  shall  be
endorsed to the Audit authorities.
In  case  of  sanctions  in  respect  of
matters, where reference was made to
the  Central  Government  under  the
Rules  of  Business
Section  46  of  the  Government  of
Union  Territory  Act,  1963,
following clause shall be added in the
sanction endorsed to Audit:-
“A  reference  had  been  made  in  this
case to the Central Government and
the above order/letter conforms to the
decision  of  the  Central  Government
v i d e   G o v e r n m e n t   o f
I n d i a ,
Copies  of  all  General  Financial
Orders issued by a Department of the
Central  Government  with
concurrence  of  the  Comptroller  and
Auditor  General  of  India  shall  be
supplied  to  the  Comptroller  and
Auditor General of India.
Copies of all sanctions or orders other
than  the  following  types  should  be
endorsed to the Audit Officers:-
(a) Sanctions  relating
advances  to  Central  Government
(b) Sanctions  relating  to appointment
or  promotion  or
Gazetted  and  non- Gazetted
(c) All sanctions relating to creation or
continuation or abolition of posts.
(d) Sanctions for handing over charge
and taking over charge, etc.
(e) Sanctions  relating  to  payment  or
withdrawal  of  General  Provident
Fund  advances  to  Government
(f) S a n c t i o n s   o f   c o n t i n g e n t
expenditure  incurred  under  the
powers of Head of Offices.
(g) Other  sanctions  of  routine  nature
issued  by  Heads  of  Subordinate
Officers (other than those issued by
Ministries  or  Departments  proper
and  under  powers  of  a  Head  of
Sanctions  accorded  by  competent
authority  to  grants  of  land  and
alienation of land revenue, other than
those  in  which  assignments  of  land
revenue are treated as cash payment,
shall  be  communicated  to  the  Audit
and/  or  the  Accounts  Officer,  as  the
case  may  be,  in  a  consolidated
monthly  return  giving  the  necessary
Rule 30 Lapse of Sanctions. A sanction for any fresh
charge shall, unless it is specifically renewed,
lapse if no payment in whole or in part has
been made during a period of twelve months
from  the  date  of  issue  of  such  sanction.
Provided that -
when  the  period  of  currency  of  the
is  prescribed  in  the
departmental  regulations  or  is
specified in the sanction itself, it shall
lapse on the expiry of such periods; or
when there is a specific provision in a
Chapter – 2
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
sanction  that  the  expenditure  would
be met from the Budget provision of a
specified financial year, it shall lapse
at the close of that financial year; or
in  the  case  of  purchase  of  stores,  a
sanction  shall  not  lapse,  if  tenders
have  been  accepted  (in  the  case  of
local or direct purchase of stores) or
the  indent  has  been  placed  (in  the
case  of  Central  Purchases)  on  the
Central Purchase Organization within
the period of one year of the date of
issue  of  that  sanction,  even  if  the
actual payment in whole or in part has
not  been  made  during  the  said
Rule 31 Notwithstanding  anything  contained
Rule 30, a sanction in respect of an addition
to  a  permanent  establishment,  made  from
year  to  year  under  a  general  scheme  by  a
competent  authority,  or  in  respect  of  an
allowance sanctioned for a post or for a class
of  Government  servants,  but  not  drawn  by
the officer(s) concerned, shall not lapse.
Rule 32 Remission of disallowances by Audit and
writing  off  of  overpayment  made  to
Government  servants.  The  remission  of
disallowances  by  Audit  and  writing  off  of
overpayments made to Government servants
by  competent  authorities  shall  be
Delegation  of  Financial  Powers  Rules,  and
instructions issued thereunder.
the  provisions  of
DEFALCATION  AND LOSSES
Rule 33 (1) Report of Losses. Any loss or shortage of
public  moneys,  departmental  revenue  or
receipts,  stamps,  opium,  stores  or  other
property  held  by,  or  on  behalf  of,
Government irrespective of the cause of loss
and  manner  of  detection,  shall  be
immediately  reported  by  the  subordinate
authority  concerned  to  the  next  higher
authority  as  well  as  to  the  Statutory  Audit
Officer  and  to  the  concerned  Principal
Accounts  Officer,  even  when  such  loss  has
been made good by the party responsible for
it. However the following losses need not be
(i)    Cases involving losses of revenue due to
(a) mistakes in assessments which are
discovered  too  late  to  permit  a
supplementary claim being made,
(b) under assessments which are due
to interpretation of the law by the
local authority being overruled by
higher authority after the expiry of
the time-limit prescribed under the
(c) refunds allowed on the ground that
the claims were time-barred:
(ii)      Petty  losses  of  value  not  exceeding
Rupees ten thousand.
Rule 33 (2) Cases involving serious irregularities shall
be brought to the notice of Financial Adviser
or Chief Accounting Authority of the Ministry
or Department concerned and the Controller
General of Accounts, Ministry of Finance.
Rule 33 (3)  Report  of  loss  contemplated  in  sub-rule
(1) & (2) shall be made at two stages.—
An  initial  report  should  be  made  as
soon as a suspicion arises that a loss
has taken place.
The  final  report  should  be  sent  to
authorities indicated in sub rule (1) &
nature  and  extent  of  loss,  errors  or
neglect of rules by which the loss has
been  caused  and  the  prospects  of
Rule 33 (4) The complete report contemplated in sub-
rule 3, shall reach through proper channels
to  the  Head  of  the  Department,  who  shall
finally dispose of the same under the powers
delegated  to  him  under  the  Delegation  of
Financial Power Rules. The reports, which he
cannot finally dispose of under the delegated
powers,  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Finance
Rule 33 ( 5 )   A n   a m o u n t
l o s t
t h r o u g h
m i s a p p r o p r i a t i o n ,   d e f a l c a t i o n ,
embezzlement,  etc.,  may  be  redrawn  on  a
simple  receipt  pending
recovery or write-off with the approval of the
authority  competent  to  write-off  the  loss  in
Rule 33 (6) In cases of loss to Government on account
of  culpability  of  Government  servants,  the
loss  should  be  borne  by
G o v e r n m e n t   D e p a r t m e n t   o r   S t a t e
Government concerned with the transaction.
Similarly, if any recoveries are made from the
erring  Government  officials  in  cash,  the
receipt  will  be  credited  to  the  Central
Government  Department  or
Government who sustained the loss.
Rule 33 (7)  All  cases  involving  loss  of  Government
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 2
assessment of responsibility for the loss shall
be  conducted  according  to  the  instructions
contained in Appendix 1 and those issued by
the Ministry of Personnel from time to time.
Rule 38 Prompt disposal of cases of loss. Action at
each stage of detection, reporting, write off,
final  disposal,  in  cases  of  losses  including
action  against  delinquents  and  remedial
measures should be completed promptly with
to  action  against
delinquents and remedial measures, taken to
strengthen the control system
SUBMISSION OF RECORDS AND
Rule 39 Demand  for  information  by  Audit  or
Accounts  Officer.  A  subordinate  authority
shall  afford  all  reasonable  facilities  to  the
Audit Officer and Pay and Accounts Officer
for the discharge of his functions, and furnish
fullest possible information required by him
for the preparation of any official account or
report, payments and internal audit.
Rule 40 A  subordinate  authority  shall  not  withhold
any information, books or other documents
required  by  the  Audit  Officer  or  Accounts
Rule 41 If the contents of any file are categorized as
‘Secret’  or  ‘Top  Secret’  the  file  maybe  sent
personally  to  the  Head  of  the  Audit  Office
specifying this fact, who will then deal with it
in accordance with the standing instructions
for  handling  and  custody  of  such  classified
money  arising  from  erroneous  or  irregular
issue of cheques or irregular accounting of
receipts  will  be  reported  to  the  Controller
General  of  Accounts  along  with
circumstances leading to the loss, so that he
can take steps to remedy defects in rules or
procedures, if any, connected therewith.
Rule 34 Loss of Government Property due to fire,
theft, fraud. Departmental Officers shall, in
addition  to  taking  action  as  prescribed  in
Rule  33,  follow  the  provisions  indicated
below  in  cases  involving  material  loss  or
destruction  of  Government  property  as  a
result of fire, theft, fraud, etc.
All  losses  above  the  value  of  Rupees  Fifty
thousand due to suspected fire, theft, fraud,
etc., shall be invariably reported to the Police
for investigation as early as possible.
Once  the  matter  is  reported  to  the  Police
Authorities,  all  concerned  should  assist  the
investigation report should be obtained from
the Police Authorities in all cases, which are
referred to them.
Rule 35 Loss of immovable property by fire, flood
exceeding  Rupees  fifty  thousand  ,  such  as
buildings, communications, or other works,
caused by fire, flood, cyclone, earthquake or
any other natural cause, shall be reported at
once by the subordinate authority concerned
to  Government  through  the  usual  channel.
All  other  losses  should  be  immediately
brought  to  the  notice  of  the  next  higher
Rule 36 Report  to  Audit  and  Accounts  Officers.
After a full enquiry as to the cause and the
extent of the loss has been made, the detailed
report  should  be  sent  by  the  subordinate
authority concerned to Government through
the proper channel; a copy of the report or an
thereof  being  simultaneously
forwarded to the Audit officer and Pay and
Rule 37 Responsibility of losses. An officer shall be
held  personally  responsible  for  any  loss
sustained by the Government through fraud
or negligence on his part. He will also be held
personally  responsible  for  any  loss  arising
from fraud or negligence of any other officer
to the extent to which it may be shown that he
contributed to the loss by his own action or
The  departmental  proceedings
Chapter – 3
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
BUDGET FORMULATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Rule 42 Financial  Year.  Financial  year  of
Government shall commence on the 1st day
of April of each year and end on the 31st day
of March of the following year.
Rule 43 (1)Presentation of Budget to Parliament.
In accordance with the provisions of Article
112  (1)  of  the  Constitution,  the  Finance
Minister shall arrange to lay before both the
Houses  of  Parliament,  an  Annual  Financial
Statement  also  known  as  the  ‘Budget’
the  estimated  receipts  and
expenditure of the Central Government   in
respect  of  a  financial  year,  before  the
commencement of that year.
Rule 43 (2)  The  receipts  and  expenditure  of  the
Railways being a departmental commercial
organization form part of the Government’s
receipts and expenditure and are included in
the  Annual  Financial  Statement.  With  the
merger of Railway Budget with the General
Budget,  the  Demands  for  Grants  and  the
Statement  of  Budget  Estimates  of  Railways
shall also be part of the General Budget with
effect from 2017-18.
Rule 43 (3)  The  provisions
formulation and submission of budget to the
Parliament are contained in Articles 112 to
116 of the Constitution of India.
Rule 43  (4) The Ministry of Finance, Budget Division,
shall  issue  guidelines  for  preparation  of
budget estimates from time to time. All the
Ministries/Departments  shall  comply  in  full
with these guidelines.
Rule 44 The budget shall contain the following :-
Estimates of all revenues expected to
be raised during the financial year to
which the budget relates ;
Estimates of all expenditure for   each
programme,  scheme  and  project  in
that financial year;
Estimates  of  all  interest  and  debt
servicing charges and any repayments
on loans in that financial year;
Any  other  information  as  may  be
Rule 45 Receipt Estimates. The detailed estimates of
receipts shall be prepared by the estimating
authorities separately for each Major Head
of Account in the prescribed form. For each
Major  Head,  the  estimating  authority  shall
give  the  break-up  of  the  Minor/Subhead/
Detailed wise estimate along with actuals of
the past three years. While doing the head
wise  classification,  it  may  be  ensured  that
item wise break-up of all major items of tax
and  non-tax  revenues  are  clearly  identified
and depicted in the receipt estimates. This is
required  to  highlight  all  individual  items  of
significance. Any major variation in estimates
with reference to past actuals or/and Budget
Estimates  shall  be  supported  by  cogent
reasons. The accounting heads under which
major tax and non-tax revenues are collected
shall  be  prescribed  by  the  administrative
Ministry  in  consultation  with  the  Budget
Division in the Finance Ministry.
Rule 46 Non-Tax Revenues. While the tax revenues,
non-debt  capital  receipts
disinvestments and borrowings are managed
by the various Departments of the Ministry of
Finance, the non-tax revenues are collected
through all Ministries/Departments and other
autonomous  bodies  and
agencies and comprise an important source
of revenue for the Government.
Rule 47 User  Charges.
important  component  of
revenues.  Each  Ministry/Department  may
undertake  an  exercise  to  identify  the  ‘user
charges’ levied by it and publish the same on
(i)  While fixing the rates of user charges,
the  Ministries/Departments  must
ensure  that  the  user  charges  recover
the  current  cost  of  providing  services
with  reasonable  return  on  capital
Any  deviation  from  these  principles
shall  be  specifically  recorded  with
reasons  justifying  the  setting  of  user
charges lower than the cost recovery
norms, if any.
The  rates  of  user  charges  should  be
linked  with  appropriate  price  indices
and  reviewed  at  least  every  three
In order to enable ease of revision of
user charges, the rate of user charges
shall  be  fixed,  whereever  possible
through Rules or executive orders and
not through a statute.
Rule 48 Dividends  and  Profits.  Dividends  and
profits including the transfer of surplus from
Reserve Bank of India is a major component
of  the  non-tax  revenues.  The  payment  of
dividends/profits  etc.  by  the  Central  Public
Sector Enterprises shall not be delayed and
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 3
must  be  paid  within  an  appropriate  time
frame  immediately  after  the  decision  on
dividend is taken in the AGM. Ministries or
Departments shall monitor timely payments
of dividends and profits. The dividend shall
be payable as per the guidelines issued by
DIPAM in this regards.
Rule 49 Receipts  Portal.  The  Government  has
provided a public portal for online collection
of  various  non-tax  revenues
various  fees  and  user  charges  through  e-
Receipts.  All  Ministries/Departments,shall
take  prompt  measures  for  migration  to  e-
Receipts,  to  ensure  customer  convenience
and  immediate  credit  of  receipts  to  the
Rule 50 ( 1 )   E x p e n d i t u r e   e s t i m a t e s .   T h e
expenditure estimates shall show separately
the  sums  required  to  meet  the  expenditure
Charged  on  the  Consolidated  Fund  under
Article 112 (3) of the Constitution and sums
required to meet other expenditure for which
a  vote  of  the  Lok  Sabha  is  required  under
Article 113(2) of the Constitution.
Rule 50 (2)  The  estimates  shall  also  distinguish
for  expenditure  on  revenue
account from capital account, including on
loans by the Government and for repayment
of  loans,  treasury  bills,  cash  management
bills and ways and means advances.
Rule 50 (3)  The  detailed  estimates  of  expenditure
shall  be  prepared  by
final  unit  of
appropriation  (Object  head)  under  the
prescribed  Major  and  Minor  Heads  of
Accounts  for  both  Revenue  and  Capital
expenditure. Estimates shall include suitable
provision for liabilities of the previous years
that is to be discharged during the year.
Rule 50 (4)  The  estimates  of  scheme  related  and
other  expenditures  shall  be  processed  in
the  Budget  Division,
Ministry  of  Finance  in  accordance  with  the
instructions issued by it.
Rule 50  (5) The Revised and Budget Estimates of both
Revenue and Capital expenditure after being
scrutinized  by  the  Financial  Advisers  and
Administrative  Ministry  or  Department
concerned shall be forwarded to the Budget
Division  in  the  Ministry  of  Finance  in  such
manner and forms as may be prescribed by it
from time to time.
the  Secretary  of
expenditure  for  which  vote  of  Lok  Sabha  is
required shall be in the form of Demand for
Rule 51 (2)  Generally,  one  Demand  for  Grant  is
presented  in  respect  of  each  Ministry  or
Department.  However,  in  respect  of  large
Ministries  or  Departments,  more  than  one
Demand  may  be  presented.  Each  Demand
normally  includes  provisions  required  for  a
service, i.e. provisions on account of revenue
expenditure,  capital  expenditure,  grants  to
the  State  and  Union  Territory  Governments
and also Loans and Advances relating to the
Rule 51 (3)  The  Demand
for  Grants  shall  be
presented  to  Parliament  at  two  levels.  The
main Demand for Grants shall be presented
to  Parliament  by  the  Ministry  of  Finance,
Budget  Division  along  with  the  Annual
Financial  Statement  while
Demands for Grants, for consideration by the
“ D e p a r t m e n t a l l y   R e l a t e d   S t a n d i n g
Committee”  (DRSC)  of  the  Parliament,  are
laid  on  the  Table  of  the  Lok  Sabha  by  the
concerned  Ministries/  Departments,  as  per
dates approved from time to time.
Rule 52 (1)  Form of Annual Financial Statement
and Demands for Grant. The form of the
Annual  Financial  Statement  and  Demands
for Grants shall be laid down by the Finance
Ministry and no alteration of arrangement or
classification  shall  be  made  without  the
approval of that Ministry.
Rule 52 (2)  The  heads  under  which  provision  for
expenditure shall be made in the Demands
for  Grants  or  Appropriation  shall  be
the  Finance  Ministry  in
consultation with the Administrative Ministry
or  Department.    The  authorized  heads  for
expenditure in a year shall be as shown in the
Detailed  Demands  for  Grants  passed  by
Parliament  and  no  change  shall  be  made
therein  without  the  formal  approval  of  the
Rule  52  (3)  The  major  head  wise  provisions  in  the
Detailed  Demands  for  Grants  shall  match
with the provision made in the Demands for
Grants presented by Budget Division, as the
appropriations  are  sought  on  the  basis  of
Demands for Grants.
NOTE: Detailed instructions for preparation
of the budget are available in Appendix 2, 3
Rule 51 (1) Demands for Grants. The estimates for
Rule 53 (1)  Acceptance  and
Chapter – 3
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
estimates.  The  estimates  of  receipts  and
expenditure  of  each  Ministry/Department
shall be scrutinized in the Budget Division of
the  Ministry  of  Finance.  Secretary
(Expenditure)  may  hold  meetings  with
Secretaries  or  Financial  Advisers  of
Administrative Ministries or Departments to
discuss  the  totality  of  the  requirements  of
funds for various programmes and schemes,
along  with  receipts  of  the  Ministries  or
Rule  53  (2)  The  estimates  initially  submitted  by  the
Departments may undergo some changes as
a  result  of  scrutiny  in  the  Budget  Division,
Ministry of Finance and deliberations in the
pre-budget meetings between the Secretary
(Expenditure) and the Secretary or Financial
Adviser  of  the  Department  concerned.  The
final  estimates  arrived  at  on  the  basis  of
scrutiny  and  pre-budget  meetings  shall  be
incorporated in the Budget documents.
Rule 54 Outcome  Budget.  After  finalization  of  the
estimates  for  budgetary  allocations,  the
Department  of  Expenditure  in  consultation
with NITI Aayog and the concerned Ministries
shall prepare an Outcome Budget statement
linking outlays against each scheme/project
with  the  outputs/deliverables  and  medium
term  outcomes.  The  outputs/deliverables
s h a l l   b e   m a n d a t o r i l y   g i v e n
measurable/quantitative terms on the basis
of  parameters  and  deliverables  decided  in
advance, on the basis of projections made in
the  Medium  Term  Expenditure  Framework
(MTEF)  Statement.  Allocations  for  each
scheme/project shall be against a firm set of
deliverables which shall be adhered to. The
performance  against  specified  outcomes
would  form  the  basis  of  deciding  on  the
continuation of the scheme and the quantum
of budget allocation.
Rule 55 Vote  on  Account.  If  the  Appropriation  Bill
seeking  authorization  of  the  Parliament  to
make  expenditure  in  consonance  with  the
Budget proposal is likely to be passed after
the  start  of  the  financial  year  to  which  it
corresponds then pending the completion of
the procedure prescribed in Article 113 of the
Constitution  for  the  passing  of  the  Budget,
the  Finance  Ministry  may  need  to  obtain  a
‘Vote  on  Account’  to  cover  expenditure  for
provisions of Article 116 of the Constitution.
Funds  made  available  under  Vote  on
Account are not to be utilized for expenditure
on a ‘New Service’.
in  accordance  with
Rule 56 Communication  and  distribution  of
grants  and  appropriations.  After
Appropriation  Bill  relating  to  Budget  is
the  Ministry  of  Finance  shall
communicate  the  same  to  the  Ministries  /
Departments  which,  in  turn,  shall  distribute
the same to their subordinate formations. The
distribution  so  made  shall  also  be
communicated  to  the  respective  Pay  and
Accounts  Officers  who  shall  exercise  check
against  the  allocation  to  each  subordinate
CONTROL OF EXPENDITURE AGAINST
Rule 57 (1)  Responsibility  for  control  of
Expenditure.  The  Departments  of
Central Government shall be responsible for
the  control  of  expenditure  against
sanctioned grants and appropriations placed
at  their  disposal.  The  control  shall  be
exercised through the Heads of Departments
and  other  Controlling  Officers,  if  any,  and
Disbursing Officers subordinate to them.
Rule 57 (2) A Grant or Appropriation can be utilised
only to cover the charges (including liabilities,
if any, of the past year) which are to be paid
during  the  financial  year  of  the  Grant  or
Appropriation and adjusted in the account of
the  year.  No  charges  against  a  Grant  or
Appropriation  can  be  authorized  after  the
expiry of the financial year.
Rule 57 (3) No expenditure shall be incurred which
may  have  the  effect  of  exceeding  the  total
grant  or  appropriation  authorized  by
Parliament by law for a financial year, except
after  obtaining  a  supplementary  grant  or
appropriation  or  an  advance  from  the
Contingency Fund. Since voted and charged
portions  as  also  the  revenue  and  capital
sections of a Grant/Appropriation are distinct
permissible, an excess in any one portion or
section  is  treated  as  an  excess  in  the
Rule 57 (4) To have effective control over expenditure
the  Departments,  Controlling  and
Disbursing Officers subordinate to them shall
follow the procedure as given below :-
For drawal of money the Drawing and
D i s b u r s i n g   O f f i c e r   s h a l l   ( a )
Prepare  and  present  bills  for
“charged”  and  “voted”  expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 3
separately. (b) Enter on each bill the
complete  accounts  classifications
from major head down to the object
head  of  account.  When  a  single  bill
includes charges falling under two or
more object heads, the charges shall
be  distributed  accurately  over  the
respective heads. (c) Enter on each bill
the  progressive  total  of  expenditure
up-to-date under the primary unit of
appropriation to which the bill relates,
including  the  amount  of  the  bill  on
which the entry is made.
All  drawing  and  disbursing  officers
shall  maintain  separate  registers  in
Fo r m   G F R   5 ,   p h y s i c a l l y   o r
electronically  for  allocation  under
each  minor  or  sub-head  of  account
with which they are concerned.
(iii) On  the  third  day  of  each  month,  a
copy  of  the  entries  made  in  this
register  during  the  preceding  month
shall  be  sent  by
maintaining  it,  to  the  Head  of  the
Department  or  other  designated
Controlling  Officer.  This  statement
shall  also  include  adjustment  of  an
inward claim, etc., communicated by
Pay  and  Accounts  Officer  directly  to
the  DDO  (and  not  to  his  Grant
Controlling  Officer).  If  there  are  no
entries in the register in any month, a
‘nil’ statement shall be sent.
The Controlling Officer will  maintain
a  broadsheet  in  Form  GFR  6  to
monitor  the  receipt  of  the  return
prescribed  in  the  foregoing  sub-
(v). On  receipt  of
Disbursing  Officers,  the  Controlling
Officer shall examine them and satisfy
that  the  accounts  classification
has been properly given;
that  progressive  expenditure  has
been  properly  noted  and  the
available  balances  worked  out
that  expenditure  up-to-date  is
within the grant or appropriation;
that the returns have been signed
by Disbursing Officers. Where the
Controlling Officer finds defects in
any of these respects, he shall take
steps to rectify the defect.
(vi) When  all
Disbursing  Officers  for  a  particular
month have been received and found
to be in order, the Controlling Officer
shall  compile  a  statement  in  Form
GFR 7, in which he shall incorporate -
the totals of the figures supplied by
the  totals  taken  from  his  own
registers in Form GFR 5;
the  totals  of  such  adjustments
under the various detailed heads
as  communicated  to  him  by  the
Accounts  Officer  on  account  of
transfer  entries  and  expenditure
debited to the grant as a result of
claims  and  not  reckoned  by  his
If  any  adjustment  communicated  by
the  Accounts  Officer  affects  the
appropriation  at  the  disposal  of  a
subordinate  Disbursing  Officer,  the
fact  that  the  adjustment  has  been
made  shall  be  communicated  by  the
Controlling  Officer  to  the  Disbursing
(viii). On receipt of all the necessary returns,
the  Head  of  the  Department  shall
prepare  a  consolidated  account  in
Form  GFR  8,  showing  the  complete
the  grant  or
appropriation at his disposal upto the
end of the preceding month.
Rule 57 (5)  The  Head  of  the  Department  and  the
Accounts Officer shall be jointly responsible
for the monthly reconciliation of the figures
given in the accounts maintained by the Head
of  the  Department  with  those  appearing  in
the Accounts Officer’s books. The procedure
for reconciliation shall be as follows :-
DDOs shall maintain a Bill Register in
Form  TR  28-A,  and  note  all  bills
presented for payment to the PAO in
the register. As soon as cheques for the
for  payment  are
received, and/or status of e-payments
are verified from the reports available
with DDO on PFMS portal these shall
be noted in the appropriate column of
the  Bill  Register  and  the  DDOs  shall
Chapter – 3
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
ensure  that  the  amounts  of  cheques
tally with the net amount of the bills
presented. In case any retrenchment
is  made  by  the  PAO,  a  note  of  such
retrenchments  shall  be  kept  against
the  bill  in  the  remarks  column  in  TR
The PAOs shall furnish to each of the
DDOs  including  Cheque  –drawing
D D O s ,   a n   e x t r a c t
t h e
expenditure  control  register  or  from
the  Compilation  Sheet  every  month
indicating the expenditure relating to
grants  controlled  by  him  classified
the  various  major-minor
detailed  head  of  accounts.  The
statements for May to March shall also
contain Progressive Figures.
f r o m
(iii). On receipt of these extracts from the
PAOs, the DDOs shall tally the figures
r e c e i v e d ,   e x c l u d i n g   b o o k
adjustments,  with  the  expenditure
worked out for the month in the GFR 5
between the two sets of figures shall
be promptly investigated by the DDO
in consultation with the PAO. He shall
also  note  in  the  GFR  5  register
particulars  of  book  adjustments
advised  by  the  PAO  through  the
monthly  statement.  Thereafter,  the
DDO  shall  furnish  to  the  PAO  a
certificate of agreement of the figures
as per his books with those indicated
by  the  PAOs  by  the  last  day  of  the
the  month  of
The Principal Accounts Officer (or PAO
wherever  payments,  relating  to  a
grant are handled wholly by a PAO) of
each  Ministry,  shall  send  a  monthly
statement  showing  the  expenditure
vis-à-vis  the  Budget  provision  under
the various heads of accounts, in the
prescribed pro forma, to the Heads of
Departments  responsible  for  overall
control  of  expenditure  against  grant
of the Ministry as a whole. The figures
so  communicated  by  the  Principal
concerned) shall be compared by the
Heads  of  Departments  with  those
consolidated  in  Form  GFR  8  and
differences, if any, shall be taken up
by the Heads of Departments with the
Principal  Accounts  Officers  (or  the
PAO  concerned)  for  reconciliation.
The  Head  of  the  Department  shall
furnish  a  quarterly  certificate  to  the
Principal  Accounts  Officer  certifying
the  correctness  of  the  figures  for  the
quarter  by  the  15th  of  the  second
following  month  after  the  end  of
quarters  April-June,  July-September,
October-December  and  January-
Rule 57 (6)  The  Departments  of
Government shall obtain from their Heads of
Departments  and  other  offices  under  them
the  departmental  figures  of  expenditure  in
Form  GFR  8  by  the  15th  of  the  month
following  the  month  to  which  the  returns
relate.  The  figures  relating  to  Revenue  and
Capital  expenditure  shall  be  separately
shown  in  these  returns.  The  information  so
obtained shall be posted in register(s) kept for
watching the flow of expenditure against the
sanctioned  grant  or  appropriation.
Progressive  totals  of  expenditure  shall  be
GFR 8 and posted in the register(s), require
correction in a subsequent month, Heads of
Departments or other offices shall make such
corrections by making plus or minus entries in
the  progressive  totals.  In  case  the  Accounts
Office  figures  which  subsequently  become
available  are  found  to  be  higher  than
departmental  figures,  the  former  shall  be
assumed  to  be  the  correct  figures,  as
appropriation accounts are prepared on the
basis of the figures booked in the accounts.
Rule 57 (7) The Departments of Central Government
shall  also  obtain
the  Heads  of
Departments  and  other  authorities  under
them, statements showing the details of the
physical  progress  of  the  schemes  for  which
they  are  responsible.  This  statement  shall
show  the  name  of  the  scheme,  the  Budget
provision  for  each  scheme,  the  progressive
expenditure on each scheme, the progress of
the scheme in physical terms and the detailed
reasons  for  any  shortfalls  or  excess,  both
against physical and financial targets.
Rule 57 (8)  A  Broadsheet  in  Form  GFR  9  shall  be
maintained  by  the  Departments  of  Central
Government  or  each  Head  of  Department
and other authorities directly under them, to
watch  the  prompt  receipt  of  the  various
returns  mentioned  above  from  month  to
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 3
month and to take necessary measures for
rectifying any defaults noticed.
Rule 58 Maintenance  of  Liability  Register  for
e f f e c t i n g   p r o p e r   c o n t r o l   o v e r
expenditure.  In  order  to  maintain  proper
control  over  expenditure,  a  Controlling
Officer  shall  obtain  from  the  spending
authorities liability statements in Form GFR 3-
A  every  month,  starting  from  the  month  of
financial  year.  The
Controlling  Officer  shall  also  maintain  a
Liability Register in Form GFR 3.
Rule 59 Personal  attention  of  the  Head  of
Department  /Controlling  Officer
required to estimate savings or excesses.
A Head of Department or Controlling Officer
shall  be  in  a  position  to  estimate  the
likelihood of savings or excesses every month
and  to  regularize  them  in  accordance  with
the instructions laid down in Rule 62.
Rule 60 C o n t r o l   o f   ex p e n d i t u r e   a g a i n s t
grant/appropriation  and  ultimate
r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   o f   t h e   a u t h o r i t y
administering  it.    The  Accounts  Officer
shall report to the Head of the Department
appearance  of  any  disproportionate
in  respect  of
recurring  items  of  expenditure  under  any
grant or appropriation or a primary unit of
a u t h o r i t y   a d m i n i s t e r i n g   a   g r a n t /
appropriation  is  ultimately  responsible  for
the  control  of  expenditure  against  the
grant/appropriation  and  not  the  Accounts
Rule 61 Excess Expenditure.
The  Accounts  Officer  shall  not  allow
any  payment  against  sanctions  in
excess of the Budget provisions unless
there is specific approval of the Chief
The  Financial  Advisers  and  Chief
A c c o u n t i n g   A u t h o r i t y,   b e f o r e
according  concurrence  for  excess
under  any  Head,  shall  ensure
D e m a n d s
f o r   G r a n t s .
(Refer Appendix 10)
Rule 62 (1) Surrender of savings. Departments of
the  Central  Government  shall  surrender  to
the Finance Ministry, by the dates prescribed
by  that  Ministry  before  the  close  of  the
financial  year,  all  the  anticipated  savings
noticed  in  the  Grants  or  Appropriations
controlled by them. The Finance Ministry shall
the  acceptance  of  such
surrenders  as  are  accepted  by  it  to  the
Accounts Officer, before the close of the year.
The funds provided during the financial year
and  not  utilized  before  the  close  of  that
financial year shall stand lapsed at the close
of the financial year.
Rule 62 (2)  The  savings  as  well  as  provisions  that
cannot  be  profitably  utilised  shall  be
surrendered  to  Government  immediately
they are foreseen without waiting till the end
of  the  year.  No  savings  shall  be  held  in
reserve for possible future excesses.
Rule 62 (3)  Rush  of  expenditure,  particularly  in  the
closing months of the Financial year, shall be
regarded as a breach of financial propriety
and shall be avoided. The Financial Advisers
of  the  Ministries/Departments  shall  ensure
the  stipulated  Monthly
Expenditure Plan and the guidelines issued in
this  regard  by
the  Budget  Division,
Department of Economic Affairs, from time to
Rule 62 (4) The Financial Advisers of the Ministries/
Departments  shall  ensure  adherence  to  the
stipulated Quarterly Expenditure Plan and the
guidelines issued in this regard by Ministry of
Finance from time to time.
Rule 63 Expenditure  on  New  Service.  No
expenditure  shall  be  incurred  during  a
financial  year  on  a  “New  Service”  not
contemplated  in  the  Annual  Budget  for  the
year except after obtaining a supplementary
grant or appropriation or an advance from
the Contingency Fund during that year. The
guidelines  to  determine  cases  of  “New
Service”/”New  Instrument  of  Service”  are
contained in Annexure-1 to Appendix -3.
Rule 64 (1)  Additional  Allotment  for  excess
expenditure.  A  subordinate  authority
incurring the expenditure shall be responsible
for  seeing  that  the  allotment  placed  at  its
disposal is not exceeded. Where any excess
over  the  allotment  is  apprehended,  the
subordinate authority shall obtain additional
expenditure. For this purpose, the authorities
incurring  expenditure  shall  maintain  a
‘Liability Register’ in Form GFR 3.
Rule 64  (2) A Disbursing Officer may not, on his own
authority, authorize any payment in excess of
Chapter – 3
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
the  funds  placed  at  his  disposal.  If  the
Disbursing Officer is called upon to honour a
claim, which is certain to produce an excess
over  the  allotment  or  appropriation  at  his
disposal,  he  shall  take  the  orders  of  the
administrative  authority  to  which  he  is
subordinate  before  authorizing  payment  of
the  claim  in  question.  The  administrative
authority shall then arrange to provide funds
either by reappropriation or by obtaining a
Supplementary Grant or Appropriation or an
the  Contingency  Fund.
in  Note  below
Appendix 10 may also be kept in view.
Rule 65 (1) Re-appropriation of Funds. Subject to
the provisions of Rule 10 of the Delegation of
Financial Powers Rules,   and also subject to
such other general or specific restrictions as
may be imposed by the Finance Ministry in
this  behalf,  re-appropriation  of  funds  from
one primary unit of appropriation to another
such  unit  within  a  grant  or  appropriation,
may be sanctioned by a competent authority
at any time before the close of the financial
year  to  which  such  grant  or  appropriation
relates. The Primary unit in this regard shall
be  the  final  unit  of  appropriation  i.e.  the
Object head of account.
Rule 65  (2) Re-appropriation of funds shall be made
only when it is known or anticipated that the
appropriation for the unit from which funds
are to be transferred shall not be utilized in
full  or  that  savings  can  be  effected  in  the
appropriation for the said unit.
Rule 65 (3) Funds shall not be re-appropriated from
a  unit  with  the  intention  of  restoring  the
diverted  appropriation  to  that  unit  when
savings become available under other units
later in the year.
Rule 65 (4)  An  application  for  re-appropriation  of
funds  shall  ordinarily  be  supported  by  a
statement in Form GFR 1 or any other special
form authorized by departmental regulations
showing  how  the  excess  is  proposed  to  be
m e t .   I n   a l l   o r d e r s ,   s a n c t i o n i n g
reappropriation, the reasons for saving and
excess  of  Rupees  1  lakh  or  over  and  the
primary  units  (secondary  units,  wherever
necessary),  affected  shall  be  invariably
stated.  The  authority  sanctioning
reappropriation shall endorse a copy of the
order to the Accounts Officer.
Rule 66 Supplementary Grants. If savings are not
available  within  the  Grant  to  which  the
payment is required to be debited, or if the
expenditure  is  on  “New  Service”  or  “New
Instrument  of  Service”  not  provided  in  the
budget,  necessary  Supplementary  Grant  or
Appropriation in accordance with Article 115
(1)  of  the  Constitution  shall  be  obtained
before  payment  is  authorized  (Refer  to
Rule 67 (1)  Advance  from  Contingency  Fund.
When  a  need  arises  to  incur  unforeseen
expenditure in excess of the sanctioned grant
or  appropriation  or  on  a  new  service  not
provided in Budget and there is not sufficient
time  for  the  voting  of  the  Supplementary
Demand  and  the  passing  of  the  connected
appropriation  bill  before  close  of  the
financial  year,  an  advance
Contingency Fund set up under Article 267
(1)  of  the  Constitution  shall  be  obtained
before incurring the expenditure.
Rule 67 (2) An advance from the Contingency Fund
shall also be obtained to meet expenditure in
excess  of  the  provisions  for  the  service
included  in  an  Appropriation  (Vote  on
Rule 67 (3) The application for an advance from the
Contingency Fund shall indicate inter alia the
particulars  of  the  additional  expenditure
involved and the sanction to the advance has
also to indicate the sub-head and the primary
unit  of  the  Grant  to  which  the  expenditure
appropriately relates. In case, however, any
difficulty is felt, the matter shall be referred to
the Finance Ministry for clarification.
Rule 67 (4) The procedure for obtaining an advance
from the Contingency Fund and recoupment
of  the  Fund  shall  be  as  laid  down  in  the
Contingency  Fund  of  India  Rules,  1952,  as
amended  from  time  to  time.  For  ready
reference,  rules  have  been  placed  at
Appendix - 6 to this volume.
Rule 68 Inevitable Payments.
Subject to the provisions of Article 114
the  Constitution,  money
indisputably  payable  by  Government
shall not ordinarily be left unpaid.
liabilities shall invariably be made in
Demands  for  Grants  to  be  placed
Rule 69 For  easy  reference  an  extract  relating  to
procedures  followed  in  the  Accounts  Office
for check against provision of funds as a part
of  pre-check  of  bills  has  been  placed  at
Rule 70 Duties  and  Responsibilities  of  the  Chief
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 3
Accounting  Authority.  The  Secretary  of  a
Accounting  Authority  of
Department shall: —
be  responsible  and  accountable  for
financial management of his Ministry
the  Ministry  or
Department are used for the purpose
for which they were meant.
efficient, economical and transparent
use of the resources of the Ministry or
Department  in  achieving  the  stated
project  objectives  of  that  Ministry  or
Department,  whilst  complying  with
appear  before  the  Committee  on
Public  Accounts  and  any  other
Pa r l i a m e n t a r y   C o m m i t t e e
f o r
review  and  monitor  regularly  the
performance of the programmes and
projects  assigned  to  his  Ministry  to
determine  whether  stated  objectives
be  responsible  for  preparation  of
expenditure  and  other  statements
relating to his Ministry or Department
as required by regulations, guidelines
or  directives  issued  by  Ministry  of
shall  ensure  that  his  Ministry  or
Department maintains full and proper
records of financial transactions and
adopts  systems  and  procedures  that
shall  at  all  times  afford  internal
shall  ensure  that  his  Ministry  or
Department  follows  the  Government
procurement procedure for execution
of works, as well as for procurement of
s e r v i c e s   a n d   s u p p l i e s ,   a n d
implements  it  in  a  fair,  equitable,
transparent,  competitive  and  cost-
shall  take  effective  and  appropriate
to  ensure  his  Ministry  or
Department : -
(a) collects  all  moneys  due  to  the
(b) avoids unauthorized, irregular and
Chapter – 4
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
the  report  of
the  year  and  changes
Preparation  and  presentation  of
Accounts.  Accounts  of
Government shall be prepared every year
showing  the  receipts  and  disbursements
for  the  year,  surplus  or  deficit  generated
Government  liabilities  and  assets.  The
accounts shall be prepared by Controller
General  of  Accounts,  certified  by  the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
and  along  with
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
on  these  accounts,  shall  be  submitted  to
the President of India, preferably within six
months of close of the Financial Year, who
shall  cause  them  to  be  laid  before  each
House of Parliament.
Form  of  Accounts.  By  virtue  of  the
provisions  of  Article  150  of
Constitution,  the  Accounts  of  the  Union
Government shall be kept in such form as
the  President  may,  on  the  advice  of  the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India,
The Controller General of Accounts in the
Ministry  of  Finance
Expenditure) is responsible for prescribing
the  form  of  accounts  of  the  Union  and
States, and to frame, or revise, rules and
manuals relating thereto on behalf of the
President of India in terms of Article 150 of
the Constitution of India, on the advice of
the  Comptroller  and  Auditor  General  of
Principles  of  Accounting.  The  main
principles according to which the accounts
of  the  Government  of  India  shall  be
maintained are contained in Government
Accounting Rules, 1990; Accounting Rules
for Treasuries; and Account Code Volume-
III. Detailed rules and instructions relating
to  the  forms  of  the  initial  and  subsidiary
accounts  to  be  kept  and  rendered  by
officers  of  the  Department  of  Posts  and
other technical departments are laid down
in the respective Accounts Manuals or in
the  departmental  regulations  relating  to
the Departments concerned.
Cash  based  Accounting.  Government
accounts shall be prepared on cash basis.
the  exception  of  such  book
adjustments  as  may  be  authorised  by
Government Accounting Rules, 1990 or by
any general or special order issued by the
Central Government on the advice of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India,
the  transactions  in  Government  accounts
shall represent the actual cash receipts and
disbursements  during  a  financial  year  as
distinguished from amounts due to or by
Government during the same period.
Period of Accounts. The annual accounts
of  the  Central  Government  shall  record
transactions  which  take  place  during  a
financial year running from the 1st April to
the 31st March thereof.
Currency in which Accounts are kept.
The  accounts  of  Government  shall  be
maintained  in  Indian  Rupees.  All  foreign
currency transactions and foreign aid shall
be brought into account after conversion
into Indian Rupees.
Main  Divisions  and  structure  of
Accounts.  The  accounts  of  Government
shall be kept in three parts, Consolidated
Fund  (Part-I),  Contingency  Fund  (Part-II)
and Public Account (Part-III).
Part-I – Consolidated Fund is divided into
two  Divisions,  namely,  ‘Revenue’  and
‘Capital’  divisions.  The  Revenue  Division
comprises the following sections:
‘Receipt Heads (Revenue Account)’ dealing
with  the  proceeds  of  taxation  and  other
receipts  classified  as  revenue  and  the
Account)’  dealing  with
expenditure  met  therefrom.  The  Capital
Division  comprises  three  sections,  viz.,
‘Expenditure Heads (Capital Account)’ and
‘Public  Debt,  Loans  and  Advances,  etc.’.
These  sections  are  in  turn  divided  into
sectors such as ‘General Services’, ‘Social
and  Community  Services’,
Services’,  etc.,  under  which  specific
functions  or  services  are  grouped
the  sectors  of
classification and which are represented by
Heads wherever necessary).
In  Part-II  –  Contingency  Fund-  are
recorded transactions connected with the
Contingency  Fund  set  up  by  the
Government of India under Article 267 of
the  Constitution  or  Section  48  of
Government  of  Union  Territories  Act,
1963. There shall be a single Major Head
to  record  the  transactions  thereunder,
which  will  be  followed  by  Minor,  Sub
and/or Detailed Heads.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 4
In  Part-III  –  Public  Account-  transactions
relating to debt (other than those included
in  Part-I),  reserve
advances, suspense, remittances and cash
balances shall be recorded.
Classification  of  transactions
Government  Accounts.  As  a  general
rule,  classification  of
Government  Accounts,  shall  have  closer
reference  to  functions,  programmes  and
activities of the Government and the object
of revenue or expenditure, rather than the
department  in  which  the  revenue  or
Heads  wherever  necessary)  are  divided
into Minor Heads. Minor Heads may have
a number of subordinate heads, generally
known as Sub Heads. The Sub Heads are
into  Detailed  Heads
followed by Object Heads.
The Major Heads of account, falling within
for  expenditure  heads,
Government,  while  the  Minor  Heads
identify  the  programmes  undertaken  to
achieve  the  objectives  of  the  functions
represented by the Major Head. The Sub
Head  represents  schemes,  the  Detailed
Head  denotes  sub  scheme  and  Object
the  primary  unit  of
nature of expenditure such as salaries and
wages,  office  expenses,  travel  expenses,
professional  services,  grants-in-aid,  etc.
The  above  six  tiers  are  represented  by  a
unique 15 digit numeric code.
Authority  to  open  a  new  Head  of
Account.  The  List  of  Major  and  Minor
Heads of Accounts of Union and States is
maintained  by  the  Ministry  of  Finance
(Department  of  Expenditure  –  Controller
General of Accounts) which is authorised
to  open  a  new  head  of  account  on  the
advice  of  the  Comptroller  and  Auditor
General of India under the powers flowing
from  Article  150  of  the  Constitution.  It
contains  General  Directions  for  opening
Heads of Accounts and a complete list of
the Sectors, Major, Sub-Major and Minor
Heads  of  Accounts  and  also  some
Sub/detailed  heads,  authorised  to  be  so
Ministries/Departments  may  open  Sub-
Heads and Detailed Heads as required by
them  in  consultation  with  the  Budget
Division  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  Their
Principal  Accounts  Offices  may  open
Sub/Detailed  Heads  required  under  the
Minor  Heads  falling  within  the  Public
Account  of  India  subject  to  the  above
The  Object  Heads  have  been  prescribed
under  Government  of  India’s  Orders
below  Rule  8  of  Delegation  of  Financial
Power  Rules.  The  power  to  amend  or
modify  these  Object  heads  and  to  open
new Object Heads rest with Department of
Expenditure of Ministry of Finance on the
advice  of  the  Comptroller  and  Auditor
General of India.
Conformity of budget heads with rules
of classification. Budget Heads exhibited
in  estimates  of  receipts  and  expenditure
framed  by  the  Government  or  in  any
appropriation  order  shall  conform  to  the
prescribed rules of classification.
Responsibility  of  Departmental
officers.   Every officer responsible for the
collection  of  Government  dues  or
expenditure  of  Government  money  shall
see  that  proper  accounts  of  the  receipts
and expenditure, as the case may be, are
maintained in such form as may have been
prescribed for the financial transactions of
Government  with  which  he  is  concerned
and  tender  accurately  and  promptly  all
such accounts and returns relating to them
as  may  be  required  by  Government,
Controlling Officer or Accounts Officer, as
the case may be.
Classification should be recorded in all
the  bills  and  challans  by  Drawing
Officers.  Suitable  classification  shall  be
recorded by Drawing Officers on all bills
drawn by them. Similarly, classification on
challans crediting Government money into
the Bank shall be indicated or recorded by
Departmental Officers responsible for the
collection  of  Government  dues,  etc.  In
cases of doubt regarding the Head under
which a transaction should be accounted,
the matter shall be referred to the Principal
Accounts  Officer  of
Department concerned for clarification of
the Ministry of Finance and the Controller
General of Accounts, wherever necessary.
Charged  or  Voted  Expenditure.  The
expenditure covered under Article 112 (3)
of the Constitution of India is charged on
Chapter – 4
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
the Consolidated Fund of India and is not
subject to vote by the legislature. All other
expenditure met out of the Consolidated
treated  as  Voted
e x p e n d i t u r e .   C h a r g e d   o r   Vo t e d
Expenditure shall be shown separately in
the  accounts  as  well  as  in  the  Budget
Capital  or  Revenue  Expenditure.
Significant  expenditure  incurred  with  the
object  of  acquiring  tangible  assets  of  a
organisation  and  not  for  sale  in  the
ordinary course of business) or enhancing
the utility of existing assets, shall broadly
be defined as Capital expenditure.
Subsequent  charges  on  maintenance,
repair,  upkeep  and  working  expenses,
which are required to maintain the assets
in  a  running  order  as  also  all  other
expenses  incurred  for  the  day  to  day
running  of  the  organisation,  including
establishment  and  administrative
expenses  shall  be  classified  as  Revenue
expenditure.  Capital  and  Revenue
expenditure shall be shown separately in
Banking  Arrangements.  The  Reserve
Bank of India (RBI) shall be the banker to
the  Government.  It  shall  maintain  cash
balance of the Government and provide
banking  facilities  to  the  Ministries  and
subordinate  or  attached  offices  either
directly through its own offices or through
its agent banks. For this purpose, RBI shall,
in consultation with the Controller General
of Accounts, nominate a bank to function
as  Accredited  Bank  of  a  Ministry  or
Department.  Pay  &  Accounts  offices  and
Cheque Drawing and Disbursing Officer
shall  have  assignment  accounts  with  the
identified branches of the Accredited Bank
of the Ministry. All payments shall be made
through  these  identified  bank  branches.
These  branches  shall  also  collect
departmental  and  other  receipts.  Tax
revenues  of  the  Government  shall  be
collected by the RBI through its own offices
or through the nominated branches of its
Note: Detailed procedure to be followed
for remittance of Government receipts into
G o v e r n m e n t   c a s h   b a l a n c e   a n d
reimbursement  of  payments  made  on
behalf  of  Government  by  the  banks  are
the  Memoranda  of
Instructions issued by the Reserve Bank of
Public  Financial  Management  System
(1) Public Financial Management System
Management  System  of  Controller
General of Accounts, Government of
India,  shall  be  used  for  sanction
preparation, bill processing, payment,
receipt  management,  Direct  Benefit
Transfer, fund flow management and
(2) All the ministries sanctioning grant-in-
aid  shall  register  all  implementing
a g e n c i e s
l e v e l   o f
implementation on PFMS to track fund
flow and unspent balances.
l a s t
t i l l
(3) All the payment, to the extent possible,
shall be released ‘just-in-time’ by the
Ministries through PFMS.
(4) Detailed  Demand  for  Grants  (DDG),
as  approved,  must  be  uploaded  on
PFMS  at  the  start  of  each  Financial
the  re-appropriation  orders,
surrender  order  shall  be  generated
through PFMS system.
(6) All  grantee  institutions  shall  submit
Utilisation Certificates on PFMS.
Rule   87  Direct Benefit Transfer.
(1) Transfer  of  benefits  should  be  done
directly to beneficiaries under various
G o v e r n m e n t   S c h e m e s   a n d
Programmes  using  Information  and
Necessary  process  reengineering  to
minimise  intermediary  levels  and  to
reduce delay in payments to intended
beneficiaries  with  the  objective  of
minimising pilferage and duplication
should  be  done  for  all  Government
Schemes  and  Programmes.  The
process for implementation of DBT as
prescribed should be adopted.
(2) DBT should include in-kind and cash
transfers  to  beneficiaries  as  well  as
transfers/honorariums  given  to
various  enablers  of  government
schemes like community workers, etc.
for  successful  implementation  of  the
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 4
(3) Transfer  of  cash  benefits
Ministries/Departments  should  be
done (a) directly to beneficiaries from
Ministries/Departments;  (b)  through
State Treasury Account; or (c) through
Implementing  Agency  as
a p p o i n t e d   b y   C e n t r e / S t a t e
includes  schemes  or
components of schemes where in-kind
benefits are given by the Government
or through any Implementing Agency
as  appointed  by  Centre/State
G o v e r n m e n t s
I n d i v i d u a l
B e n e f i c i a r y / H o u s e h o l d / S e r v i c e
(5) Ministries/Departments will use PFMS
platform  for  processing  of  payments
for  cash  /
individual  beneficiaries  as  per
framework laid down by Department
of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance.
I m p l e m e n t i n g   A g e n c i e s   s h a l l
generate  Electronic  Utilisation
Certificate  (E-UCs)  on  PFMS  portal
and submit them online. E-UCs shall
be  used  to  certify  that  money  was
actually  utilized  for  the  purpose  for
which  it  was  sanctioned  to  eliminate
the  need  for  physical  generation  of
(7) Transaction  charges  for  the  financial
payments shall be paid as stipulated
by Ministry of Finance.
Appropriation Accounts. Appropriation
Accounts of Central Ministries (other than
Ministry of Railways) and of Central Civil
Departments  (excluding  Department  of
Posts  and  Defence  Services)  shall  be
the  Principal  Accounts
Officers  of  the  respective  Ministries  and
Departments  (under  the  guidance  and
supervision  of  the  Controller  General  of
Accounts)  and  signed  by  their  respective
Chief  Accounting  Authorities  i.e.,  the
Secretaries in the concerned Ministries or
Departments.  Union  Government
Appropriation Accounts (Civil) required to
be  submitted  to  Parliament,  shall  be
prepared  annually  by
General of Accounts by consolidating the
aforesaid Appropriation Accounts.
Appropriation  Accounts  pertaining  to
Departments of Posts and Defence Services
shall  be  prepared  and  signed  by  the
Secretaries to the Government of India in
the  Department  of  Posts  and  Ministry  of
Defence respectively and that of Ministry of
Railways by the Chairman, Railway Board.
Finance  Accounts.  Annual  accounts  of
the  Government  of
transactions  of  Department  of  Posts  and
Ministries  of  Defence  and  Railways  and
transactions under Public Account of India
of Union Territory Governments), showing
under  the  respective  Heads  the  annual
receipts and disbursements and statement
of balances for the purpose of the Union,
called Finance Accounts, shall be prepared
and  signed  by  the  Controller  General  of
Accounts  countersigned  by  the  Secretary
(Expenditure), Ministry of Finance.
Presentation  of  Annual  accounts.  The
Appropriation  and  Finance  accounts
mentioned above, shall be prepared by the
respective authorities on the dates mutually
agreed  upon  with  the  Comptroller  and
Auditor  General  of  India,  in  the  forms
prescribed by the President on the advice of
the  Comptroller  and  Auditor  General  of
India  and  sent  to  the  latter  for  recording
his/her  certificate.  The  certified  Annual
Accounts  and  the  Reports  relating  to  the
accounts  shall  be  submitted  by  the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India
to  the  President  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of Section 11 of the Comptroller
and Auditor General’s (Duties, Powers and
Conditions  of  Service)  Act,  1971  and
Clause (1) of Article 151 of the Constitution
Administrative  Ministries  /  PSUs  /
Subordinate  /  Statutory  /  Autonomous
Bodies may have financial stakes in Public
Sharing  Contracts  (PSCs)/  Joint  Ventures
(JV’s)/  Subsidiary  companies  etc.  In  such
case details of the financial stakes of the
Government  or  other  entities  mentioned
above, should be disclosed in the Annual
Report of the Administrative Ministry.
Chapter – 4
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Subsidiary  Accounts  of  Government
Departments undertaking commercial
activities. Where the operations of certain
Government  Departments  working  on  a
commercial  or  quasi-commercial  basis
e.g., an industrial factory or a store cannot
be suitably brought within the cash based
Government accounting system, the Head
of the units shall be required to maintain
such  subsidiary  proforma  accounts  in
commercial  form  as  may  be  agreed
between  Government  and  Comptroller
and  Auditor  General  of
includes  the  maintenance  of  suitable
Manufacturing,  Trading,  Profit  &  Loss
Accounts and Balance Sheet.
Methods  and  principles  on  which
subsidiary  accounts  in  commercial
form are to be kept. The methods and
in  accordance  with  which
subsidiary  and  proforma  accounts  in
commercial form are to be kept shall be
regulated  by  orders  and
issued by Government in each case.
Note  1.  Proforma  accounts  of  regular
Government  Workshops  and  Factories
shall  be  kept  in  accordance  with  the
detailed rules and procedure prescribed in
the  departmental  regulations.  Proforma
accounts relating to Public Works shall be
prepared  by  the  Accounts  Officers  in
accordance with the instructions contained
in Account Code for Accountants General.
Note  2.  The  Heads  of  Account  (which
should, as far as possible, be common to
the  Government  accounts  and
General  Ledger  maintained  by  a
Commercial  Undertaking)  shall  be
selected with due regard to the principles
of  Governmental  and  Commercial
accounting so that the monthly classified
account of income and expenditure of the
undertaking  may  be  prepared  readily
from the General Ledger maintained by it.
Adequate regulations to be framed to
ensure  cost  deduced  is  accurate  and
true.  Where  commercial  accounts  are
maintained for the purpose of assessment
of the cost of an article or service, the Head
of  the  unit  shall  ensure  that  adequate
regulations are framed with the approval
of Government in order to ensure that the
accurate and true.
Maintenance  and  submission  of
subsidiary accounts and statements by
department units. The Head of the unit
shall  arrange  to  obtain  the  orders  of
Government  regarding  the  nature  and
form  of  subsidiary  accounts  and
statements,  if  any.  Such  accounts  and
statements  shall  be  submitted  to  the
Accounts Officer on such date as may be
required  by  him.  The  same  shall  be
appended  to  the  Appropriation  Accounts
of each year.
PERSONAL DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS
Personal  Deposit  Account.  Personal
Deposit  Account  is  a  device  intended  to
facilitate the Designated Officer thereof to
credit receipts into and effect withdrawals
directly  from  the  account,  subject  to  an
overall check being exercised by the bank
in  which  the  account  is  authorised  to  be
opened.  The  Designated  Officer  shall
ensure (with the help of a personal ledger
account to be maintained by the bank for
the purpose) that no withdrawal will result
in  a  minus  balance
Government officers acting in their official
or  any  other  capacity  shall  be
Designated Officer thereof.
(1) Authority to open Personal Deposit
Account.  The  Personal  Deposit  Account
shall  be  authorised  to  be  opened  by  a
special order by the concerned Ministry or
in  consultation  with  the
Controller  General  of  Accounts.  Such
special order or permission shall be issued
or granted by the Ministry or Department
concerned after it is satisfied that the initial
accounts  of  the  moneys  to  be  held  in  a
personal  deposit  account  and  disbursed,
shall  be  arranged  to  be  maintained
properly  and  shall  be  subject  to  audit.
Every  personal  deposit  account  so
authorised to be opened, shall form part of
the Government Account and be located in
the Public Account thereof. The provisions
relating to “Personal Deposit Account” are
contained in para 16.7 of Civil Accounts
Manual  and  Rule  191  to  194  of  Central
(2)  Personal  Deposit  accounts  shall
generally  be  authorised  to  be  opened  in
the following types of cases:
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 4
in  favour  of  a  Designated  Officer
the  purpose  of
administering monies tendered by or
on  behalf  of  wards  and  attached
e s t a t e s   u n d e r   G o v e r n m e n t
management. It shall also be ensured
that proper arrangements are made
for  the  maintenance  and  audit  of
connected initial accounts;
in  relation  to  Civil  and  Criminal
Courts’  deposits,  in  favour  of  the
Chief Judicial Authority concerned;
(c) where,  under  certain  regulatory
activities of the Government, receipts
are realised and credited to a Fund or
Account under the provisions of an Act
to  be  utilised  towards  expenditure
thereunder  and  no  outgo  from  the
Consolidated Fund is involved.
(d) where  a  personal  deposit  account  is
required  to  be  created  by  a  law  or
rules  having  the  force  of  law  and
Government  out  of
liabilities  devolve  on
(e) officers commanding units and others
concerned  in  the  administration  of
Departments  can  be  authorised  to
open  personal  deposit  accounts  for
CAPITAL AND REVENUE ACCOUNTS
Capital  Expenditure.  Significant
expenditure  incurred  with  the  object  of
acquiring tangible assets of a permanent
nature (for use in the organisation and not
for sale in the ordinary course of business)
or enhancing the utility of existing assets,
shall  broadly  be  defined  as  Capital
expenditure.  Subsequent,  charges  on
maintenance, repair, upkeep and working
expenses, which are required to maintain
the  assets  in  a  running  order  as  also  all
other expenses incurred for the day to day
running  of  the  organisation,  including
establishment  and  administrative
expenses,  shall  be  classified  as  Revenue
expenditure.  Capital  and  Revenue
expenditure shall be shown separately in
Expenditure  on  a  temporary  asset  or  on
grants-in-aid  cannot  ordinarily  be
considered  as  a  capital  expenditure  and
shall  not,  except  in  cases  specifically
authorised by the President on the advice
of the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India, be debited to a Capital Head.
Capital expenditure is generally met from
receipts of capital nature, as distinguished
from  ordinary  revenues  derived  from
taxes, duties, fees, fines and similar items
of current income including extraordinary
receipts. It is open to the Government to
meet  capital  expenditure  from  ordinary
revenues,  provided  there  are  sufficient
revenue resources to cover this liability.
Expenditure of a Capital nature as defined
above,  shall  not  be  classed  as  Capital
expenditure  in  the  Government  Accounts
unless the classification has been expressly
authorised by general or special orders of
Expenditure  of  a  Capital  nature  shall  be
d i s t i n g u i s h e d
t h e   R e v e n u e
f r o m
Expenditure both in the Budget Estimates
and in Government Accounts.
Principles for allocation of expenditure
between  Capital  and  Revenue.  The
the  main  principles
governing  the  allocation  of  expenditure
between Revenue and Capital:
(a) Capital shall bear all charges for the
first construction and equipment of a
project  as  well  as  charges  for
intermediate maintenance of the work
while  not  yet  opened  for  service.  It
shall  also  bear  charges  for  such
further  additions  and  improvements,
which  enhance  the  useful  life  of  the
asset,  as  may  be  sanctioned  under
rules made by competent authority.
(b) Subject  to  Clause  (c)  below,  revenue
shall  bear  subsequent  charges  for
maintenance  and  all  working
expenses.  These  embrace  all
the  working  and
upkeep  of  the  project  and  also  on
renewals  and  replacements  and
a d d i t i o n s ,
i m p r o v e m e n t s   o r
extensions that are revenue in nature
as per rules made by Government.
In  the  case  of  works  of  renewal  and
r e p l a c e m e n t ,   w h i c h   p a r t a k e
expenditure  both  of  a  capital  and
revenue  nature,  the  allocation  of
expenditure shall be regulated by the
Chapter – 4
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
broad  principle  that  Revenue  should
pay  or  provide  a
adequate  re-  placement  of  all
wastage  or  depreciation  of  property
originally  provided  out  of  capital
grants.  Only  the  cost  of  genuine
improvements,  which  enhance  the
the  asset  whether
determined  by  prescribed  rules  or
formulae, or under special orders of
Government,  may  be  debited  to
Capital. Where under special orders
of  Government,  a  Depreciation  or
Renewals Reserve Fund is established
for renewing assets of any commercial
department  or  undertaking,
distribution  of  expenditure  on
renewals  and  replacements  between
Capital  and  the  Fund  shall  be  so
to  guard  against
overcapitalisation  on  the  one  hand
and  excessive  withdrawals  from  the
Fund on the other.
(d) Expenditure on account of reparation
of  damage  caused  by  extraordinary
calamities  such  as
earthquake, enemy action, etc., shall
be charged to Capital, or to Revenue,
or divided between them, depending
upon whether such expenditure results
in  creation/acquisition  of  new  assets
or whether it is only for restoring the
condition  of  the  existing  assets,  as
may  be  determined  by  Government
according to the circumstance of each
(e) Expenditure  on  a  temporary  asset
cannot ordinarily be considered as a
capital  expenditure  and  shall  not,
except in cases specifically authorised
by the President on the advice of the
Comptroller  and  Auditor  General  of
India, be debited to a Capital Head.
Rule 100  Allocation  between  capital  and
revenue  expenditure  :  The  allocation
between capital and revenue expenditure
on a Capital Scheme for which separate
Capital and Revenue Accounts are to be
kept, shall be determined in accordance
with such general or special orders as may
be  prescribed  by  the  Government  after
consultation  with  the  Comptroller  and
Auditor General of India.
Rule 101 Capital  receipts  during  construction
mainly  to  be  utilised  in  reduction  of
capital expenditure :
Capital  receipts  in  so  far  they  relate  to
expenditure previously debited to Capital
accruing during the process of construction
of a project, shall be utilised in reduction of
capital  expenditure.  Thereafter  their
treatment in the accounts will depend on
circumstances,  but  except  under  special
rule or order of Government, they shall not
be credited to the revenue account of the
department or undertaking.
Receipts  and  recoveries  representing
recoveries  of  expenditure  previously
debited to Capital Major Head: Receipts
and recoveries on Capital Account in so far
as they represent recoveries of expenditure
previously  debited  to  a  Capital  Major
Head  shall  be  taken  in  reduction  of
the  Major  Head
concerned except where, under the rules of
to  a  particular
department, such receipts have to be taken
Rule 103 Conversion  of  outstanding  loans  into
equity  investments  or  grants-in-aid.
Government  takes  from  time  to  time,
restructure  the  Capital  base  of  public
sector enterprises so that these enterprises
their  performance  and
productivity.  As  a  part  of  the  package
scheme,  financial  relief  in  the  form  of
conversion of outstanding loans into equity
investments  or  grants-in-aid  are  also
Where  loans  outstanding  against  Public
Sector  Undertakings  are  proposed  to  be
converted into equity investments in or as
the  Public  Sector
the  approval  of  the
Parliament  to  such  proposals,  shall  be
obtained by including a token provision in
the  relevant  Demands  for  Grants  or
Supplementary  Demands  for  Grants  as
may  be  found  expedient.  The  details  of
such conversion of loans may be explained
in  the  relevant  Budget/Supplementary
Demand  documents.  After  obtaining  the
approval of the Parliament, the balances
expenditure  of  the  Capital  Heads  of
Accounts  shall  be  corrected  proforma  in
the  relevant  Accounts  of
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 4
Major Heads concerned.
ADJUSTMENT  WITH  GOVERNMENT
INTEREST ON CAPITAL
Interest  rate.  Except  in  special  cases
r e g u l a t e d   b y   s p e c i a l   o r d e r s   o f
Government, interest at such rates as may
be  specified  from  time  to  time  shall  be
charged in the accounts of all Commercial
Departments  or  units  for  which  separate
capital  and  revenue  accounts  are
(1)  Charging  of  interest  on  capital
outlay met out of specific loans raised
by  Government.  For  capital  outlay  met
out  of  specific
loans  raised  by
Government, the interest shall be charged
at  such  rate  as  may  be  prescribed  by
Government, having regard to the rate of
interest  actually  paid  on  such  loans  and
the incidental charges incurred in raising
and managing them.
By specific loans are meant loans that are
raised in the open market for one specific
purpose  which  is  clearly  specified  in  the
prospectus and in regard to which definite
information is given at the time of raising
of the loans.
(2) For capital outlay provided otherwise,
interest  shall  be  charged  at  the  rate  of
interest to be determined each year by the
Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry
Rule 106 Method of calculation of interest. The
interest  shall  be  calculated  on  the  direct
capital  outlay  at  the  end  of  the  previous
year plus half the outlay of the year itself,
irrespective  of  whether  such  outlay  has
been met from current revenues or from
Rule 107 How interest charged to capital is to be
written  back.  When  under  any  special
orders of Government, charges for interest
during  the  process  of  construction  of  a
project are temporarily met from capital,
the writing back of capitalised interest shall
form  the  first  charge  on  any  capital
receipts  or  surplus  revenue  derived  from
the project when opened for working.
in  respect  of
Rule 108  Adjustments with State Governments.
Subject  to  the  relevant  provision  of  the
Constitution or of law made by Parliament
or  any  orders
transactions with State Governments shall,
unless otherwise provided for, be made in
such manner, and to such extent as may be
mutually agreed upon between the Central
Government  and  the  State  Government
concerned.  However,  adjustments  with
State Government in respect of the matters
mentioned below shall be regulated by the
rules  contained  in  Appendix-5  to  the
Government Accounting Rules, 1990. The
r u l e s   a r e   b a s e d   o n   r e c i p r o c a l
arrangements  made  with
Governments and are, therefore, binding
on all of them:-
(i) Pay and Allowances, other than Leave
(ii) Leave Salaries.
(iv) Expenditure  involved  in  Audit  and
(v) Cost  of  Police  functions  on  Railways
the  cost  of  protecting
(vi) Cost of Forest Surveys carried out by
the Survey of India, and Forest maps
prepared by that Department.
(vii) L e a v e   S a l a r y   a n d   P e n s i o n
Contributions recovered in respect of
Government servants lent on Foreign
Rule 109  Re-audit.  As  a  convention,  a  period  of
three  years  has  been  accepted  by  the
Central and State Governments for the re-
audit of past transactions involving errors
Rule 110 W h e n   a d j u s t m e n t   n e c e s s a r y.
Adjustment  shall  always  be  made  unless
otherwise agreed upon —
If  a  commercial  department  or
undertaking or a regularly organised
store department or store section of a
department is concerned, or
If under the operation of any rule or
order, an adjustment would have been
made if the particular transaction with
Chapter – 4
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
State Government were a transaction
between  two  departments  of  the
Petty  and  isolated  claims  for  services
rendered  not  to  be  preferred.  The
Union  Territories)  and
Governments  have  agreed  under
reciprocal  arrangements  not  to  prefer
petty  and  isolated  claims  for  an  amount
not  exceeding  Rupees
against one another
is  covered  by
Rule 112 Criteria  in  determining  whether  a
particular  claim  is  covered  by  the
reciprocal arrangement. The significant
in  determining  whether  a
reciprocal  arrangement  mentioned
above, will be that the claim shall be both
petty and of an occasional character and
shall  cover  services  rendered  and  not
supplies made unless the latter forms part
of service. The term “service rendered” will
be  taken  to  mean  an  individual  act  of
service,  like  providing  police  escort  to  a
high dignitary and will not apply to supply
of  stores  etc.  Claims  relating
Commercial  undertakings  under
Governments  such  as
Railways,  the  Department  of  Post,  the
Electrical  undertakings,  etc.,  shall  fall
outside  the  purview  of  the  proposed
reciprocal  arrangements  and  shall
continue to be settled as hitherto.
If a doubt arises as to whether a particular
claim  would  fall  within  or  outside  the
purview of the proposed arrangement, it
shall be decided by mutual consultation.
The  above  arrangements  will  remain  in
force without any time limit in respect of all
Projects  jointly  executed  by  several
State  Governments.  In  the  case  of
jointly  executed  by  several
Governments, where the expenditure is to
b e   s h a r e d   b y
t h e   p a r t i c i p a t i n g
Governments  in  agreed  proportions,  but
the expenditure is ab-initio incurred by one
Government  and  shares  of  other
participating  Governments  recovered
subsequently; such recoveries from other
Governments  shall  be  exhibited  as
abatement of charges under the relevant
expenditure Head of Account in the books
Rule 114  Claims  of  State  Governments  on
account  of  the  extra  cost  of  agency
functions. Claims of State Governments,
on  account  of  the  extra  cost  of  agency
functions  entrusted  to  them  under  Article
258 of the Constitution shall be dealt with
and  settled  in  accordance  with  such
directions  as  may  be  issued  by  the
President in this regard from time to time
The following principles shall be generally
observed in dealing with claims preferred
by State Governments under Clause (3) of
Article 258 of the Constitution: —
the  agency  work
employment  of  a  State  Commercial
Department, it would be open to that
department  to  charge  its  normal
(ii) Public Works Department agency costs
shall  be  represented  by  such
percentage  charges  on  the  cost  of
Central Works executed by the State as
may  be  agreed  between  the  Central
and the State Government concerned,
works  outlay  being  treated  as  an
amount placed at the disposal of the
expenditure  on  the  execution  of  the
(iii) The cost of regular joint establishment
shall be shared as far as practicable
on  the  basis  of  fixed  annual  sums
settled  in  agreement  with  the  State
(iv) In  other  cases,
procedure  shall  be  adopted  unless
there  are  special  orders
(a) Details  of  claims  preferred  by
State  Governments  shall  be
If the work has been performed by
the State Government in the past,
the  charges  shall  be  compared
with those charged in the past but
it is not necessary to be meticulous
in the matter.
If  the  charges  are  found  to  be
reasonable  and  do  not  exceed
Rupees Fifty thousand per annum
connected group of items), a five
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 4
years contract shall be offered to
the  State  Government  during
which  the  Central  Government
would  pay  the  fixed  sum  per
annum for the work. The amount
will be subjected to review at the
end of each period of five years.
the  amount  agreed  upon
exceeds Rupees Fifty thousand, it
shall  be  necessary  to  have  an
annual  statement  of  proposed
t h e   S t a t e
c h a r g e s
f r o m
However, if in any individual case,
the  charges  are  obviously  static,
then the contract system may be
adopted in these cases also.
In  exceptional  cases
arbitration has to be resorted to, the
Ministry  of  Finance  will  make  the
requisite arrangement in the matter.
(vi) The  Ministry  of  Finance  shall  be
consulted on all matters arising under
Article 258 (3) of the Constitution.
Principles  governing  transactions  in
connection  with  the  agency  functions
entrusted  to  State  Government.  The
following  procedure  shall  be  followed  in
connection  with  the  agency  functions
entrusted to the State Governments under
Article 258 of the Constitution:
(i) The  expenditure  on  extra  staff  or
contingencies  which  the  State
Government  have  to  incur-The
extra  cost  to  the  State  Government
arising  mainly  in  respect  of  the
additional  staff  employed  or
contingent and other expenditure, as
in the case of work devolving on the
State Governments in connection with
the administration of the Census Act,
is reimbursable under Article 258 (3)
of the Constitution. Expenditure in this
regard shall be provided in the State
Budget  in  the  first  instance  and
adjusted in the accounts of the State
Heads  of  Accounts.  These  will  be
reimbursed  in  lumpsum  to  the  State
Governments,  necessary  provision
being made under a distinct sub-head
”Amounts paid to other Governments,
Departments,  etc.”,  under
concerned  Demand  of  the  Ministry
administratively  concerned  with  the
subject.  In  computing  the  extra  cost,
the element of leave and pensionary
charges  can  also  be
provided  the  relevant  service  and
t h e   S t a t e
f i n a n c i a l   r u l e s   o f
Governments provide for this.
(ii) The expenditure on work entrusted
to  the  State  Government,  such  as
expenditure  on  construction  and
m a i n t e n a n c e   o f   N a t i o n a l
Highways, expenditure on Defence
Works,  Aviation  Works,  etc.-The
expenditure  directly  connected  with
the  execution  of  the  scheme  or  work
entrusted  to  the  State  Government
s u c h   a s   e x p e n d i t u r e   o n   t h e
construction  or  maintenance  of
National  Highways  etc.,  will  be
adjusted direct in the accounts of the
Central  Government  under  the
relevant  Head  of  Account.  The
question of including the estimates in
this regard in the Budget of the State
Governments and subjecting them to
the vote of the State Legislature will not
arise. The expenditure will be adjusted
under  the  Head  “8658  –  Suspense
Accounts  –PAO  Suspense”  in  the
Remittance  Section  of
Accounts in the first instance pending
their eventual clearance in accordance
with the prescribed procedure.
Note: In the converse case relating to the
entrustment  of  a  State  function  to  the
Central  Government  under  Article258-A
of the Constitution, a procedure similar to
that indicated in the Rule 116 above shall
be  followed.  The  extra  cost  on  staff  and
other  contingent  expenditure,  etc.,  will
accordingly  have  to  be  provided  in  the
Budget of the Central Government in the
usual  manner  and  recovery  made  in
lumpsum  from  the  State  Government
concerned.  The  other  expenditure  on
execution  of  the  work  proper  should  be
the  State  Government
concerned  directly  and  the  question  of
obtaining a vote of the Parliament for the
same will not arise.
Rule 117 Crucial  date  for  closure  of  Inter-
Governmental adjustments can be carried
out upto the 15th of April on which date the
Chapter – 4
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
books of the Reserve Bank are closed for
the  month  of  March.  Every  endeavour
must, therefore, be made to settle as far as
transactions  with  State
Governments before the close of the year.
Rule 118  A d j u s t m e n t s   w i t h   f o r e i g n
Governments,  outside  bodies,  etc.
Unless  exempted  by  Government  by
general  or  special  orders,  services  shall
not  be  rendered
Government or non-Government body or
institution or to a separate fund constituted
as such except on payment.
Recoveries of expenditure for services
rendered to non-Government parties.
Recoveries  of  expenditure  for  services
rendered  or  supplies  made  to  non-
G o v e r n m e n t   p a r t i e s   o r   o t h e r
Governments  (including  local  funds  and
Governments  outside  India),  shall  in  all
cases,  be  classified  as  receipts  of  the
Government rendering such services.
Recoveries of expenditure for services
rendered  as  an  agent.  When  a
Government undertakes a service merely
as an agent of a private body, the entire
cost of the service shall be recovered from
that  body  so
Government is nil. The recoveries shall be
taken as reduction of expenditure.
Explanation: The term ‘recovery’ is used
in these rules to denote repayment of, or
payment  by  non-Government  parties  or
initially  incurred  and  classified  by  a
Central  Government  Department  in  the
account, as final expenditure by debit to a
Revenue  or  Capital  Head  of  Account.
tools  and  plants,
procurement  of  inspection  of  stores  or
both etc., effected at percentage rates or
otherwise, are some examples.
Payments to outside body or fund to be
through  grant-in-aid.  Any  relief
respect of payment for services rendered
or supplies made to any outside body or
fund  shall  ordinarily  be  given  through  a
grant-in-aid  rather  than  by  remission  of
the  net  cost
Rule 122  Charges  relating  to  the  maintenance
and  demarcations  and  disputes  over
boundaries.  The  incidence  of  charges
the  maintenance  and
demarcations  and  disputes  over
boundaries between India and a foreign
country  is  regulated  by  the  following
(i) Maintenance – Half the maintenance
charges  will  be  borne  by  the  Central
Government,  the  other  half  being
recovered, as far as practicable, from
the  foreign  country,  failing  which  the
foreign  country’s  share  will  also  be
borne by the Central Government.
(iii) Demarcation and Disputes – Charges
relating to demarcation of boundaries
and  boundary  disputes  will  be  borne
by  the  Central  Government  under
Entry  10  of  the  Union  List,  subject  to
such recovery as shall be made from
the Foreign Country.
(iii) Where streams or other watercourses
form  the  boundaries  and  where  the
ordinary  principle  of  median  line
applies,  the  Government  concerned
(i.e.,  Foreign  Country  or  India)  will
bear  the  cost  of  maintenance  of  the
boundary  line  on  its  side.  Where  a
separate  set  of  survey  marks
maintained  by  each  of
Governments  on  its  side,  the  cost  of
maintenance of the survey marks shall
be  borne  by
(a) The arrangement in (i) above in its
to  Nepal  will  be
subject  to  special  arrangements
worked  out  in  consultation  with
the Nepal Government.
(b) The  share  of
and demarcation of and disputes
over boundaries will be borne by
the  Central  Government  for  the
Inter-Departmental Adjustments. Save
as  expressly  provided  by  any  general  or
special orders, a Service Department shall
not charge other Departments for services
rendered  or  supplies  made  which  falls
within  the  class  of  duties  for  which  the
However,  a  commercial  Department  or
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 4
undertaking  shall  ordinarily  charge  and
be  charged  for  any  supplies  made  and
to,  or  by,  other
departments of Government.
Rule 124  Principles for division of Departments
for  purposes  of  inter-departmental
payments.  For  purposes  of
Departmental payments, the Departments
of  a  Government  shall  be  divided  into
service  Departments  and  commercial
departments  according  to  the  following
(i) Service  Departments.  -These  are
constituted for the discharge of those
functions which either-
(a) Are  inseparable  from  and  form
part  of  the  idea  of  Government
e . g .   D e p a r t m e n t s   o f
Administration  of  Justice,  Jails,
Police, Education, Medical, Public
Health, Forest, Defence; or
(b) Are  necessary  to,  and  form  part
of,  the  general  conduct  of  the
business  of  Government  e.g.
D e p a r t m e n t s   o f   S u r v e y,
Government  Printing,  Stationery,
Public Works (Building and Roads
Branch),  Central  Purchase
of  Supplies  and  Disposals,  New
(ii) C o m m e r c i a l   D e p a r t m e n t s   o r
Undertakings.-These  are  established
mainly for the purposes of rendering
services  or  providing  supplies,  of
certain special kinds, on payment for
the  services  rendered  or  for  the
articles  supplied.  They  perform
functions,  which  are  not  necessarily
governmental  functions.  They  are
required to work to a financial result
maintained on commercial principles.
Period  for  preferment  of  claims.  All
claims  shall  ordinarily  be  preferred
between  Departments,  both  commercial
and  non-commercial  of
Government,  within  the  same  financial
year and not beyond three years from the
however, may be waived in specific cases
by  mutual  agreement  between
Procedure  for  settlement  of  inter-
departmental  adjustments.  The
s e t t l e m e n t   o f
i n t e r- d e p a r t m e n t a l
adjustments  shall  be  regulated  by  the
directions  contained  in  Chapter  4  of
Government Accounting Rules, 1990.
I n t e r - d e p a r t m e n t a l   a n d   o t h e r
adjustments to be made in the account
year. Under the directions contained in the
Account  Code  for  Accountants  General,
Inter-departmental and other adjustments
are not to be made in the accounts of the
past  year,  if  they  could  not  have  been
reasonably  anticipated  in  time  for  funds
being obtained from the proper authority.
In  all  cases,  where  the  adjustment  could
have reasonably been anticipated as, for
example,  recurring  payments  to  another
Government or department and payments
which, though not of fixed amount, are of a
fixed character, etc., the Accounts Officer
will automatically make the adjustment in
the accounts before they are finally closed.
The onus of proving that the adjustments
could  not  have  been  reasonably
anticipated should lie with the Controlling
As  between  different  Departments  of  the
same Government, the recoveries effected
for services rendered shall be classified as
deductions  from  the  gross  expenditure.
However,  recoveries  made  by  a
Commercial  Department,  e.g.,  Railways,
Posts  or  a  departmental  commercial
undertaking in respect of services rendered
in pursuance of the functions for which the
Commercial  Department  is  constituted
treated  as  receipts  of  the
Department but where it acts as an agent
for the discharge of functions not germane
to the essential purpose of the Department,
the recoveries shall be taken as reduction
purchase, inspection, etc., effected by the
Central  Purchase  Organizations  of
Government  of  India,  are  treated  as
receipts of the Department concerned.
NOTE 1.-The term ‘recovery’ is used in this
rule to denote repayment of/or payment by
one Department of the same Government
towards  charges  initially  incurred  and
classified  by  another  Department  in  its
accounts as final expenditure by debit to a
Revenue  or  Capital  Head  of  Account.
Recoveries towards establishment charges,
Chapter – 4
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
pension as prescribed in the appropriate
order  issued  from  time  to  time  under
Appendix-II  of  Fundamental  and
tools and plants, fees for procurement or
inspection of stores or both, etc., effected
at percentage rates or otherwise, are some
NOTE 2.-Recoveries effected from another
Department  of  the  same  Government
which  are  to  be  classified  as  deduction
from the gross expenditure, shall be shown
in  the  relevant  Demand  for  Grant  as
“below  the  line”  recovery  under  the
appropriate  Major  Head  of  Account  etc.
Recovery actually effected, irrespective of
the  year  to  which  it  relates  shall  be
adjusted  in  accounts  in  the  schedule  of
to  be  attached
Appropriation Account of the year in which
the recovery is effected.
Rule 128  Adjustment of Pensionary Charges of
certain  Commercial  Departments.
Except  as  otherwise  provided,
liability  of  commercial
departments and undertakings, for which
forma  commercial  accounts  are
maintained,  shall  be  assessed  on  a
contribution basis at such rates as may be
fixed by Government from time to time. In
t h e   c a s e   o f   d e p a r t m e n t s   a n d
for  which  no  regular
commercial  accounts  are  maintained
either  within  or  outside
Government  accounts  but  which  are
allowed  to  charge  for  their  products  or
services rendered, the pensionary liability
shall be taken into account in the estimate
of  overhead  charges  and  manufacturing
costs  for  the  purpose  of  calculating  the
issue price of goods manufactured or fees
for services rendered. The calculation shall
be  made  at  rates  prescribed  for  the
purpose by Government.
NOTE:  The  Railways,  Posts  and  Defence
Departments  are  regarded  as  separate
the  purpose  of
adjustment of pensionary charges.
Rule: 129 Pensionary  liability  in  the  case  of
G o v e r n m e n t   D e p a r t m e n t s /
Undertakings declared as commercial.
In  the  case  of  Government  Departments
a n d   U n d e r t a k i n g s   d e c l a r e d   a s
commercial,  adjustment  of  Pensionary
liability  shall  be  made  in  the  regular
accounts by charging the average of the
percentage for 15th year of service based
on  the  rates  of  monthly  contribution  of
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Rule 130 Original  works  means  all  new
constructions,  site  preparation,  additions
and alterations to existing works, special
repairs to newly purchased or previously
abandoned  buildings  or  structures,
including remodelling or replacement.
Minor  works  mean  works  which  add
capital value to existing assets but do not
create new assets.
Repair works means works undertaken to
maintain building and fixtures. Works will
also include services or goods incidental
or consequential to the original or repair
Rule 131 Administrative  control  of  works
(i)  assumption  of  full  responsibility  for
construction,  maintenance  and
(ii)  proper  utilization  of  buildings  and
(iii)  provision  of  funds  for  execution  of
Powers to sanction works. The powers
to  various  subordinate
to  accord  administrative
approval,  sanction  expenditure  and  re-
appropriate funds for works are regulated
by  the  Delegation  of  Financial  Powers
Rules, and other orders contained in the
respective departmental regulations.
(1)  A  Ministry  or  Department  at  its
discretion  may  directly  execute  repair
works estimated to cost up to Rupees Thirty
Lakhs  after  following  due  procedure
indicated in Rule 139, 159 & 160.
(2)  A  Ministry  or  Department  may,  at  its
discretion, assign repair works estimated
to  cost  above  Rupees  thirty  Lakhs  and
original/minor works of any value to any
Public Works Organisation (PWO) such as
Central  Public  Works  Department
(CPWD), State Public Works Department,
others Central Government organisations
authorised  to  carry  out  civil  or  electrical
works such as Military Engineering Service
(MES), Border Roads Organisation (BRO),
etc. or Ministry/Department’s construction
wings of Ministries of Railways, Defence,
Environment  &  Forests,  Information    &
Broadcasting  and  Departments  of  Posts,
and Space etc.
(3) As an alternative to 133(2), a Ministry
or  Department  may  award  repair  works
Chapter – 5
estimated to cost above Rupees thirty Lakhs
and original works of any value to:
(i)  any Public Sector Undertaking set up
by the Central or State Government to
carry out civil or electrical works or
t o   a n y   o t h e r   C e n t r a l /   S t a t e
Government organisation /PSU which
may  be  notified  by  the  Ministry  of
Urban Development (MoUD) for such
purpose  after  evaluating  their
financial  strength  and
For the award of work under this sub-rule,
the  Ministry/  Department  shall  ensure
c o m p e t i t i o n   a m o n g   s u c h   P S U s /
Organisations.  This  competition  shall  be
essentially  on  the  lump  sum  service
charges  to  be  claimed  for  execution  of
In  exceptional  cases,  for  award  of  work
under  (i)  and  (ii)  above,  on  nomination
basis, the conditions contained in Rule 194
would  apply.  The  work  under
circumstances shall also be awarded only
on the basis of lump sum service charge
Rule 134 Work under the administrative control
of  the  Public  Works  Departments.
Works  not  specifically  allotted  to  any
Ministry or Department shall be included in
for  Civil  Works  to  be
administered  by  Central  Public  Works
Department.  No  such  work  may  be
financed  partly  from  funds  provided  in
departmental budget and partly from the
budget  for  Civil  works  as  mentioned
(1)  General  Rules.  Subject
these  general  rules,
(including  Rule  144)the
authorization  and  execution  of  works
to  a  particular  Ministry  or
Department shall be regulated by detailed
rules  and  orders  contained  in  the
respective  departmental  regulations  and
by other special orders applicable to them.
(2)  Ministry  or  Department  shall  put  in
place,  as  far  as  possible,  empowered
project  teams  for  all  large  value  projects
and these teams should be tasked only with
project  execution  and  not  given  other
(1)  No  works  shall  be  commenced  or
liability incurred in connection with it until:
(i)  administrative  approval  has  been
Chapter – 5
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
authority in each     case.
(ii) sanction  to  incur  expenditure  has
been  obtained  from  the  competent
(iii)  a  properly  detailed  design  has  been
sanctioned;  while  designing
projects  etc,  principles  of  Life  Cycle
cost may also be considered.
(iv) estimates  containing
specifications  and  quantities  of
various items have been prepared on
the  basis  of  the  Schedule  of  Rates
maintained by CPWD or other Public
Works Organisations and sanctioned.
funds to cover the charge during the
year  have  been  provided  by
tenders  invited  and  processed  in
accordance with rules.
(vii) a Work Order issued.
(2) On grounds of urgency or otherwise, if
it becomes necessary to carry out a work or
incur a liability under circumstances when
the provisions set out under sub rule 1 of
rule  136  cannot  be  complied  with,  the
concerned executive officer may do so on
his  own  judgement  and  responsibility.
Simultaneously, he should initiate action to
obtain  approval  from  the  competent
authority  and  also
concerned Accounts Officer.
(3)  Any  development  of  a  project
considered  necessary  while  a  work  is  in
progress,  which  is  not  contingent  on  the
execution of work as first sanctioned, shall
have  to  be  covered  by  a  supplementary
Rule 137  For purpose of approval and sanctions, a
group of works which forms one project,
shall  be  considered  as  one  work.  The
for  obtaining  approval  or
sanction  of  higher  authority  to  a  project
which  consists  of  such  a  group  of  work
should not be avoided because of the fact
that the cost of each particular work in the
project  is  within  the  powers  of  such
approval or sanction of a lower authority.
This provision, however, shall not apply in
case of works of similar nature which are
independent of each other.
Any anticipated or actual savings from a
sanctioned estimate for a definite project,
shall  not,  without  special  authority,  be
applied  to  carry  out  additional  work  not
contemplated in the original project.
Procedure for Execution of Works.  The
broad  procedure  to  be  followed  by  a
Ministry  or  Department  for  execution  of
works under its own arrangements shall be
as under :-
(i)  the  detailed  procedure  relating  to
expenditure  on  such  works  shall  be
p r e s c r i b e d   b y   d e p a r t m e n t a l
regulations  framed  in  consultation
with  the  Accounts  Officer,  generally
based  on  the  procedures  and  the
principles underlying the financial and
accounting rules prescribed for similar
works carried out by the Central Public
Works Department (CPWD);
(ii)  preparation  of  detailed  design  and
estimates  shall  precede  any  sanction
(iii)  no  work  shall  be  undertaken  before
Issue  of  Administrative  Approval  and
Expenditure Sanction by the competent
Authority  on  the  basis  of  estimates
(iv) Open tenders will be called for works
costing Rs. Five lakh to Rs. Thirty lakh;
limited tenders will be called for works
costing less than Rupees five lakhs;
(vi)  execution  of  Contract  Agreement  or
Award of work should be done before
commencement of the work;
(vii) final payment for work shall be made
only on the Personal Certificate of the
Officer-in-charge  of  execution  of  the
work in the format given below:
“I …... Executing Officer of (Name of
the Work), am personally satisfied that
the work has been executed as per the
C o n t r a c t   A g r e e m e n t   a n d   t h e
workmanship  is  up  to  the  standards
followed in the Industry.”
Rule 140  For original/minor works and repair works
entrusted  as  per  Rule  133(2)  or  Rule
133(3),  the  Administrative  Approval  and
Expenditure  Sanction  shall  be  accorded
and  funds  allotted  by  the  concerned
these  rules  and  in
the  Delegation  of
Financial  Power  Rules.  The  Public  Works
the  Public  Sector
Undertaking or any Organisation allotted
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 5
work shall then execute the work entrusted
to  it  in  accordance  with  the  rules  and
t h a t
p r o c e d u r e s   p r e s c r i b e d   i n
organisation.  A  Memorandum  of
Understanding (MoU) may be drawn with
Public  Works  Organisation  or  the  Public
Sector  Undertaking  for  proper  execution
Review of Projects. After a project costing
Rs. 100 crore or above is approved, the
Administrative Ministry or Department will
set up a Review Committee consisting of a
r e p r e s e n t a t i v e   e a c h
t h e
Administrative  Ministry,  Finance  (Internal
Finance Wing) and the Executing Agency
to  review  the  progress  of  the  work.  The
Review Committee shall have the powers
to  accept  variation  within  10%  of  the
approved  estimates.  For  works  costing
less  than  Rs.  100  crore,  it  will  be  at  the
Ministry/Department to set up a suitable
mechanism for review and acceptance of
variation  within  10%  of  the  approved
f r o m
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS
This  chapter  contains  the  general  rules
a p p l i c a b l e
t o   a l l   M i n i s t r i e s   o r
Departments,  regarding  procurement  of
goods  required  for  use  in  the  public
service.  Detailed  instructions  relating  to
procurement of goods may be issued by
the  procuring  departments  broadly  in
the  general  rules
contained in this Chapter.
b) not  indicate  a  requirement  for  a
particular trade mark, trade name
the  specifications  in  terms  of  quality,
type etc., as also quantity of goods to
be  procured,  should  be  clearly  spelt
out keeping in view the specific needs
of  the  procuring  organisations.  The
specifications  so  worked  out  should
the  basic  needs  of  the
superfluous  and  non-essential
features,  which  may  result  in
(iii) Where  applicable,
practicable, be based on the national
technical  regulations  or  recognized
national standards or building codes,
wherever such standards exist, and in
their  absence,  be  based  on  the
relevant  international  standards.  In
case  of  Government  of  India  funded
specifications  may  be  framed  based
on requirements and standards of the
host  beneficiary  Government,  where
such standards exist.
Provided that a procuring entity may,
for reasons to be recorded in writing,
t e c h n i c a l
a d o p t   a n y   o t h e r
(iv) Care  should  also  be  taken  to  avoid
purchasing  quantities  in  excess  of
(v) offers  should  be  invited  following  a
transparent  and  reasonable
the  procuring  authority  should  be
the  selected  offer
adequately meets the requirement in
(vii) the procuring authority should satisfy
itself that the price of the selected offer
is reasonable and consistent with the
(viii)  at  each  stage  of  procurement  the
concerned  procuring  authority  must
place on record, in precise terms, the
considerations  which  weighed  with  it
(ix)  a  complete  schedule  of  procurement
Rule 143 Definition  of  Goods.  The  term  ‘goods’
used  in  this  chapter  includes  all  articles,
material,  commodity,  livestock,  furniture,
fixtures, raw material, spares, instruments,
machinery,  equipment,  industrial  plant,
vehicles,  aircraft,  ships,  medicines,
railway  rolling  stock,  assemblies,  sub-
assemblies,  accessories,  a  group  of
machineries comprising of an integrated
production process or such other category
of  goods  or  intangible  products  like
software,  technology  transfer,  licenses,
patents  or  other  intellectual  properties
purchased  or  otherwise  acquired  for  the
use  of  Government  but  excludes  books,
publications, periodicals, etc. for a library.
The term ‘goods’ also includes works and
services  which  are
consequential to the supply of such goods,
installation, commissioning, training and
Fundamental  principles  of  public
buying (for all procurements including
procurement of works). Every authority
delegated  with  the  financial  powers  of
procuring  goods  in  public  interest  shall
have the responsibility and accountability
to  bring  efficiency,  economy,  and
transparency in matters relating to public
procurement  and  for  fair  and  equitable
treatment  of  suppliers  and  promotion  of
competition in public procurement.
The procedure to be followed in making
public  procurement  must  conform  to  the
following yardsticks :-
The description of the subject matter
practicable should  -
a) be  objective,  functional,  generic
and  measurable  and  specify
t e c h n i c a l ,   q u a l i t a t i v e   a n d
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 6
cycle from date of issuing the tender to
date of issuing the contract should be
published when the tender is issued.
(x) All  Ministries/Departments  shall
prepare  Annual  Procurement  Plan
before the commencement of the year
and the same should also be placed
on their website.
Rule 145 Authorities  competent  to  purchase
goods.   An authority which is competent
to  incur  expenditure  may  sanction  the
purchase  of  goods  required  for  use  in
in  accordance  with
provisions  in  the  Delegation  of  Financial
Powers  Rules,    following  the  general
procedure  contained  in  the  following
Procurement  of  goods  required  on
mobilisation  Procurement  of  goods
required  on  mobilisation  and/  or  during
the  continuance  of  Military  operations
shall  be  regulated  by  special  rules  and
orders issued by the Government on this
behalf from time to time.
Powers for procurement of goods. The
Ministries  or  Departments  have  been
delegated full powers to make their own
arrangements for procurement of goods.
In case, however, a Ministry or Department
does  not  have  the  required  expertise,  it
may  project  its  indent  to  the  Central
Purchase Organisation (e.g. DGS&D) with
the approval of competent authority. The
indent form to be utilised for this purpose
will be as per the standard form evolved by
the Central Purchase Organisation
Rate  Contract.  DGS&D  shall  conclude
rate contracts with the registered suppliers
for such goods, which are not available on
GeM, and are identified as common use
items and are needed on recurring basis
by various Central Government Ministries
or Departments.  DGS&D will furnish and
update all the relevant details of the rate
contracts on its website.   The Ministries or
contracts to the maximum extent possible.
Rule 149. Government  e-Market  place  (GeM).
DGS&D or any other agency authorized by
the  Government  will  host  an  online
Government  e-Marketplace  (GeM)  for
common  use  Goods  and  Services.
DGS&D  will  ensure  adequate  publicity
including  periodic  advertisement  of  the
items to be procured through GeM for the
prospective suppliers. The Procurement of
Goods  and  Services  by  Ministries  or
Departments will be mandatory for Goods
or  Services  available  on  GeM.  The
credentials of suppliers on GeM shall be
certified  by  DGS&D.  The  procuring
authorities will certify the reasonability of
rates. The GeM portal shall be utilized by
the Government buyers for direct on-line
purchases as under :-
(i) Up to Rs.50,000/- through any of the
the  requisite  quality,
available  suppliers  on
specification and delivery period.
(ii) Above  Rs.50,000/-  and  up  to
Seller having lowest price amongst the
available  sellers,  of  at  least  three
different  manufacturers,  on  GeM,
the  requisite  quality,
specification and delivery period.  The
tools  for  online  bidding  and  online
reverse auction available on GeM can
be used by the Buyer if decided by the
(iii) Above  Rs.30,00,000/-  through  the
supplier  having  lowest  price  meeting
the requisite quality, specification and
delivery  period  after  mandatorily
obtaining  bids,  using  online  bidding
or  reverse  auction  tool  provided  on
the  online  e-
bidding/reverse  auction  will  be
available to all the existing Sellers or
other Sellers registered on the portal
a n d   w h o   h a v e   o f f e r e d   t h e i r
goods/services  under  the  particular
product/service category, as per terms
and conditions of GeM.
(v) The  above  mentioned  monetary
ceiling is applicable only for purchases
made through GeM. For purchases, if
any, outside GeM, relevant GFR Rules
(vi) The Ministries/Departments shall work
out their procurement requirements of
Goods and Services on either “OPEX”
model or “CAPEX” model as per their
requirement/ suitability at the time of
preparation  of  Budget  Estimates  (BE)
and  shall  project
Procurement  Plan  of  goods  and
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
services on GeM portal within 30 days
of Budget approval.
(vii) The  Government  Buyers  may
ascertain the reasonableness of prices
before  placement  of  order  using  the
Business Analytics (BA) tools available
on  GeM  including  the  Last  Purchase
Price on GeM, Department’s own Last
Purchase Price etc.
(viii) A  demand  for  goods  shall  not  be
divided into small quantities to make
procurement  through  L-1  Buying  /
bidding / reverse auction on GeM or
the necessity of obtaining the sanction
of  higher  authorities  required  with
reference to the estimated value of the
Registration of Suppliers
(i) With  a  view  to  establishing  reliable
sources  for  procurement  of  goods
commonly  required  for  Government
t h e   C e n t r a l   P u r c h a s e
u s e ,
(e.g.  DGS&D)  will
prepare and maintain item-wise lists
of  eligible  and  capable  suppliers.
Such  approved  suppliers  will  be
known  as  “Registered  Suppliers”.  All
Ministries or Departments may utilise
these  lists  as  and  when  necessary.
Such  registered  suppliers  are  prima
facie  eligible  for  consideration  for
procurement  of  goods
Limited Tender Enquiry. They are also
ordinarily  exempted  from  furnishing
bid  security  along  with  their  bids.  A
Head of Department may also register
suppliers  of  goods  which  are
s p e c i f i c a l l y   r e q u i r e d   b y
t h a t
Department  or  Office,  periodically.
Registration of the supplier should be
done following a fair, transparent and
reasonable  procedure  and  after
giving due publicity.
(ii) C r e d e n t i a l s ,   m a n u f a c t u r i n g
capability,  quality  control  systems,
past performance, after-sales service,
financial  background  etc.  of  the
supplier(s) should be carefully verified
(iii) The supplier(s) will be registered for a
fixed  period  (between  1  to  3  years)
depending on the nature of the goods.
At the end of this period, the registered
supplier(s)  willing  to  continue  with
registration  are  to  apply  afresh  for
renewal  of  registration.  New
supplier(s) may also be considered for
registration at any time, provided they
fulfil all the required conditions.
(iv) Performance  and  conduct  of  every
registered supplier is to be watched by
the concerned Ministry or Department.
The registered supplier(s) are liable to
be removed from the list of approved
suppliers  if  they  fail  to  abide  by  the
terms  and  conditions  of  the
registration or fail to supply the goods
on time or supply substandard goods
or make any false declaration to any
Government agency or for any ground
the  opinion  of  the
Government, is not in public interest.
(v) The list of registered suppliers for the
subject  matter  of  procurement  be
the  Central  Public
Procurement Portal and websites of the
Procuring  Entity/  e-Procurement/
Rule 151 Debarment from bidding.
(i) A bidder shall be debarred if he has
been convicted of an offence—
(a) u n d e r
t h e   P r e v e n t i o n   o f
Corruption Act, 1988; or
(b)  the  Indian  Penal  Code  or  any
other  law  for  the  time  being  in
force, for causing any loss of life or
property  or  causing  a  threat  to
public health as part of execution
of a public procurement contract.
(ii) A bidder debarred under sub-section
(i) or any successor of the bidder shall
not  be  eligible  to  participate  in  a
procurement process of any procuring
entity for a period not exceeding three
years  commencing  from  the  date  of
d e b a r m e n t .   D e p a r t m e n t   o f
Commerce  (DGS&D)  will  maintain
such list which will also be displayed
on the website of DGS&D as well as
Central Public Procurement Portal.
(iii) A procuring entity may debar a bidder
its  successors,  from
or  any  of
in  any  procurement
process undertaken by it, for a period
two  years,  if  it
the  bidder  has
breached  the  code  of  integrity.  The
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 6
Ministry/Department  will  maintain
such list which will also be displayed
on their website.
(iv) The  bidder  shall  not  be  debarred
unless such bidder has been given a
reasonable  opportunity  to  represent
against such debarment
Enlistment of Indian Agents. As per the
Compulsory  Enlistment  Scheme  of  the
Department  of  Expenditure,  Ministry  of
Finance,  it  is  compulsory  for  Indian
agents,  who  desire  to  quote  directly  on
behalf  of  their  foreign  principals,  to  get
themselves  enlisted  with
However, such enlistment is not equivalent
to registration  of suppliers as mentioned
under Rule 150.
R e s e r v e d   I t e m s   a n d   o t h e r
Purchase/Price Preference Policy.
(i)  The  Central  Government,  through
reserved all items of hand spun and
hand-woven textiles (khadi goods) for
exclusive purchase from Khadi Village
Industries Commission (KVIC). It has
also reserved all items of handloom
t e x t i l e s   r e q u i r e d   b y   C e n t r a l
exclusive purchase from KVIC and/or
the  notified  handloom  units  of
Association of Corporations and Apex
Societies of Handlooms (ACASH).
(ii)  Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium
(MSME)  have  notified
procurement policy under section 11
of  the  Micro,  Small  and  Medium
Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
(iii)  The  Central  Government  may,  by
notification,  provide  for  mandatory
procurement of any goods or services
from  any  category  of  bidders,  or
provide for preference to bidders on
the  grounds  of  promotion  of  locally
manufactured  goods  or
Purchase of goods without quotation
Purchase  of  goods  upto  the  value  of
Rs. 25,000 (Rupees twenty five thousand)
only  on  each  occasion  may  be  made
without inviting quotations or bids on the
basis of a certificate to be recorded by the
“I,,  am  personally  satisfied  that  these
goods  purchased  are  of  the  requisite
quality  and  specification  and  have  been
purchased  from  a  reliable  supplier  at  a
Purchase  of  goods  by  Purchase
Committee.  Purchase  of  goods  costing
above  Rs.  25,000  (Rupees  twenty  five
thousand  only)  and  upto  Rs.2,50,000/-
(Rupees two lakh and fifty thousand only)
on  each  occasion  may  be  made  on  the
recommendations  of  a  duly  constituted
Local  Purchase  Committee  consisting  of
three members of an appropriate level as
decided by the Head   of the Department.
The  committee  will  survey  the  market  to
ascertain  the  reasonableness  of  rate,
quality and specifications and identify the
a p p r o p r i a t e   s u p p l i e r.   B e f o r e
recommending placement of the purchase
order, the members of the committee   will
jointly record a certificate as under.
that  we,  members  of  the
purchase  committee  are
recommended  for  purchase  are  of  the
requisite  specification  and  quality,  priced
at  the  prevailing  market  rate  and  the
supplier  recommended  is  reliable  and
to  supply  the  goods  in
question,  and  it  is  not  debarred  by
Department  of  Commerce  or  Ministry/
(1)  Purchase  of  goods  directly  under
Rate  Contract.  In  case  a  Ministry  or
Department  directly  procures  Central
Purchase Organisation (e.g. DGS&D) rate
contracted  goods  from  suppliers,  the
prices to be paid for such goods shall not
exceed those stipulated in the rate contract
and the other salient terms and conditions
of the purchase should be in line with those
specified in the Rate Contract. The Ministry
or  Department  shall  make  its  own
arrangement for inspection and testing of
such goods where ever required.
(2)  The  Central  Purchase  Organisation
( e . g .   D G S & D )   s h o u l d   h o s t   t h e
specifications,  prices  and  other  salient
details  of  different  rate  contracted  items,
appropriately updated, on the web site for
the  procuring  Ministry  or
Rule 157  A demand for goods should not be divided
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
into  small  quantities  to  make  piecemeal
the  necessity  of
obtaining the sanction of higher authority
required  with  reference  to  the  estimated
value of the total demand.
Purchase of goods by obtaining bids.
Except  in  cases  covered  under  Rule
154,155,  and  156(1),  Ministries  or
Departments  shall  procure  goods  under
the powers referred to in Rule 147 above
by  following  the  standard  method  of
obtaining bids in :
(ii)  Limited Tender Enquiry
(iii)  Two-Stage Bidding
(iv)  Single Tender Enquiry
(v)  Electronic Reverse Auctions
Advertised Tender Enquiry
It  is  mandatory  for  all  Ministries/
D e p a r t m e n t s   o f
t h e   C e n t r a l
their  attached  and
Subordinate Offices and Autonomous
/Statutory  Bodies  to  publish  their
tender enquiries, corrigenda thereon
and  details  of  bid  awards  on  the
Central  Public  Procurement    Portal
Individual cases where confidentiality
is  required,  for  reasons  of  national
security, would be exempted from the
mandatory e-publishing requirement.
The  decision  to  exempt  any  case  on
the said grounds should be approved
by  the  Secretary  of  the  Ministry/
Department  with  the  concurrence  of
the  concerned  Financial  Advisor.    In
the case of Autonomous Bodies and
Statutory  Bodies’  approval  of  the
H e a d  of
concurrence  of  the  Head  of  the
Finance  should  be  obtained  in  each
such  case.  Statistical  information  on
the  number  of  cases
exemption was granted and the value
of the concerned contract should be
intimated on a Quarterly basis to the
Ministry  of  Finance,  Department  of
th e   B od y   w i t h
(iii)  The  above  instructions  apply  to  all
Tender  Enquiries,  Requests
Proposals, Requests for Expressions of
Interest, Notice for pre Qualification/
Registration  or  any  other  notice
inviting bids or proposals in any form
whether they are advertised, issued to
limited number of parties or to a single
(iv)  In  the  case  of  procurements  made
though  DGS&D  Rate  Contracts  or
t h r o u g h   a n y   o t h e r   C e n t r a l
Procurement  Organizations  (CPOs)
only  award  details  need
(v)  These  instructions  would  not  apply  to
provisions  of Rules 154 (Purchase of
goods  without  quotations)  or  155
(Purchase  of  goods  by  purchase
committee)  of  General  Financial
to  receive  all  bids
through  e-procurement  portals  in
respect of all procurements.
(ii) Ministries/ Departments  which do not
have a large volume of  procurement
or  carry  out    procurements  required
only for day-to-day running of offices
i n i t i a t e d
a n d   a l s o   h a v e   n o t
e-procurement  through  any  other
solution  provided  so  far,    may  use
e-procurement solution developed by
NIC.   Other Ministries/ Departments
may  either  use  e-procurement
solution developed by NIC or engage
any  other  service  provider  following
(iii) These  instructions  will  not  apply  to
procurements  made  by  Ministries  /
Departments  through  DGS&D  Rate
In  individual  case  where  national
security  and  strategic  considerations
demands  confidentiality,  Ministries/
Departments may exempt such cases
from  e-procurement  after  seeking
approval of concerned Secretary and
with  concurrence  of  Financial
In  case  of  tenders  floated  by  Indian
M i s s i o n s   A b r o a d ,   C o m p e t e n t
Authority  to  decide  the  tender,  may
f r o m   e -
e x e m p t   s u c h   c a s e
Rule 161 Advertised Tender Enquiry
(I)  Subject  to  exceptions  incorporated
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 6
u n d e r   R u l e 1 5 4 ,   1 5 5 , 1 6 2
advertisement  should  be  used  for
procurement  of  goods  of  estimated
value of Rs. 25 lakhs (Rupees Twenty
Five  Lakh)and  above.  Advertisement
in  such  cases  should  be  given  on
Central  Public  Procurement  Portal
(CPPP)  at  www.eprocure.gov.in  and
on  GeM.  An  organisation  having  its
own website should also publish all its
advertised  tender  enquiries  on  the
(ii)   The organisation should also post the
complete  bidding  document  in  its
website  and  on  CPPP  to  enable
prospective bidders to make use of the
document  by  downloading  from  the
(iii)  The  advertisements  for  invitation  of
tenders should give the complete web
address  from  where  the  bidding
documents can be downloaded.
(iv)  I n   o r d e r
t o   p r o m o t e   w i d e r
participation and ease of bidding, no
cost  of  tender  document  may  be
charged  for  the  tender  documents
downloaded by the bidders.
(iv) Where  the  Ministry  or  Department
feels  that  the  goods  of  the  required
quality, specifications etc., may not be
available  in  the  country  and  it  is
necessary  to  also  look  for  suitable
competitive  offers  from  abroad,  the
Ministry  or  Department  may  send
copies  of  the  tender  notice  to  the
Indian Embassies abroad as well as to
the  foreign  Embassies  in  India.  The
selection of the embassies will depend
on the possibility of availability of the
required  goods  in  such  countries.  In
such cases e-procurement as per Rule
160 may not be insisted.
(v)    Ordinarily,  the  minimum  time  to  be
allowed for submission of bids should
be  three  weeks  from  the  date  of
publication  of  the  tender  notice  or
availability  of  the  bidding  document
for sale, whichever is later. Where the
Department  also  contemplates
obtaining  bids  from  abroad,  the
minimum  period  should  be  kept  as
four  weeks  for  both  domestic  and
Rule 162  Limited Tender Enquiry
This  method  may  be  adopted  when
estimated  value  of  the  goods  to  be
procured is up to Rupees Twenty five
Lakhs.  Copies  of
document  should  be  sent  directly  by
speed post/registered post/courier/ e-
mail to firms which are borne on the
list  of  registered  suppliers  for  the
goods  in  question  as  referred  under
Rule  150  above.  The  number  of
in  Limited  Tender
Enquiry  should  be  more  than  three.
Efforts  should  be  made  to  identify  a
higher number of approved suppliers
to  obtain  more  responsive  bids  on
Further,  an  organisation  should
publish its limited tender enquiries on
Central  Public  Procurement  Portal
(CPPP) as per Rule 159.   Apart from
CPPP, the organisations should publish
t e n d e r   e n q u i r i e s   o n   t h e
t h e
Department’s or Ministry’s web site.
(ii)  The  unsolicited  bids  should  not  be
accepted.  However  Ministries/
Departments  should  evolve  a  system
by which interested firms can register
and bid in next round of tendering.
through  Limited  Tender
Enquiry may be adopted even where
t h e   e s t i m a t e d   v a l u e   o f   t h e
procurement  is  more  than  Rupees
twenty-five  Lakhs,  in  the  following
(a) The  competent  authority  in  the
Ministry  or  Department  certifies
that the demand is urgent and any
additional expenditure involved by
not  procuring  through  advertised
tender enquiry is justified in view of
u r g e n c y.   T h e   M i n i s t r y   o r
Department  should  also  put  on
record  the  nature  of  the  urgency
and reasons why the procurement
could not be anticipated.
(b) There are sufficient reasons, to be
in  writing  by  the
competent  authority,  indicating
that it will not be in public interest
to  procure  the  goods  through
advertised tender enquiry.
(c) The  sources  of  supply  are
definitely known and possibility of
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
fresh  source(s)  beyond
being tapped is remote.
(iv)  Sufficient  time  should  be  allowed  for
submission of bids in Limited Tender
Rule 163  Two bid system (simultaneous receipt
of  separate  technical  and  financial
bids) :   For purchasing high value plant,
machinery etc. of a complex and technical
nature, bids may be obtained in two parts
as under :
Technical  bid  consisting  of  all
t e c h n i c a l   d e t a i l s   a l o n g   w i t h
commercial  terms  and  conditions;
(ii) Financial  bid  indicating  item-wise
price  for  the  items  mentioned  in  the
The  technical  bid  and  the  financial  bid
should be sealed by the bidder in separate
covers duly super-scribed and both these
sealed  covers  are  to  be  put  in  a  bigger
cover  which  should  also  be  sealed  and
duly super-scribed. The technical bids are
to be opened by the purchasing Ministry or
Department  at  the  first  instance  and
evaluated  by  a  competent  committee  or
authority.  At  the  second  stage  financial
bids  of  only  these  technically  acceptable
offers  should  be  opened  after  intimating
them  the  date  and  time  of  opening  the
financial  bid  for  further  evaluation  and
ranking before awarding the contract.
Rule 164  Two-Stage Bidding (Obtain bids in two
stages with receipt of financial bids after
receipt and evaluation of technical bids)
(i) Ministry/Department  may    procure
the subject matter of procurement by
the method of two-stage bidding, if
it  is  not  feasible  to  formulate
detailed specifications or identify
specific  characteristics  for  the
subject  matter  of  procurement,
w i t h o u t   r e c e i v i n g
i n p u t s
regarding  its  technical  aspects
from bidders; or
the character of the subject matter
of procurement is subject to rapid
technological advances or market
fluctuations or both; or
(c)  Ministry/Department  seeks
enter  into  a  contract  for  the
purpose of research, experiment,
study  or  development,  except
where  the  contract  includes  the
production  of  items  in  quantities
to  establish  their
commercial viability or to recover
research  and  development
(d) The bidder is expected to carry out
a detailed survey or investigation
and  undertake  a  comprehensive
assessment  of  risks,  costs  and
obligations  associated  with  the
(ii) The procedure for two stage bidding
i n v i t e   b i d s
shall include the following, namely:—
(a)  in  the  first  stage  of  the  bidding
process, the Ministry/Department
s h a l l
t h r o u g h
advertised  tender  containing  the
technical aspects and contractual
terms  and  conditions  of  the
proposed procurement without a
( c )
(b)  all  first  stage  bids,  which  are
otherwise  eligible,  shall  be
e v a l u a t e d
t h r o u g h   a n
a p p r o p r i a t e   c o m m i t t e e
t h e   c o m m i t t e e   m a y   h o l d
discussions with the bidders and if
any such discussion is held, equal
opportunity  shall  be  given  to  all
in revising the relevant terms and
conditions  of  the  procurement,
the  procuring  entity  shall  not
modify the fundamental nature of
the  procurement  itself,  but  may
add,  amend  or  omit  any
specification of the subject matter
of  procurement  or  criterion  for
in the second stage of the bidding
process, the procuring entity shall
invite bids from all those bidders
whose bids at the first stage were
not  rejected,  to  present  final  bid
with  bid  prices  in  response  to  a
revised  set  of
conditions of the procurement;
(f) any bidder, invited to bid but not in
a  position  to  supply  the  subject
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 6
matter  of  procurement  due  to
modification in the specifications
or  terms  and  conditions,  may
any bid security that he may have
been required to provide or being
in  any  way,  by
withdraw  from  the  procurement
proceedings  with  adequate
Late Bids. In the case of advertised tender
enquiry or limited tender enquiry, late bids
(i.e. bids received after the specified date
and time for receipt of bids) should not be
Single  Tender  Enquiry.  Procurement
from a single source may be resorted to in
the following circumstances :
It  is  in  the  knowledge  of  the  user
department that only a particular firm
is  the  manufacturer  of  the  required
In a case of emergency, the required
goods  are  necessarily
purchased  from  a  particular  source
and the reason for such decision is to
be  recorded  and  approval  of
competent authority obtained.
(iii) For  standardisation  of  machinery  or
spare  parts  to  be  compatible  to  the
existing  sets  of  equipment  (on  the
advice  of  a  competent  technical
expert  and  approved  by
competent  authority),  the  required
item is to be purchased only from a
Note : Proprietary Article Certificate in the
following  form  is  to  be  provided  by  the
Ministry/Department before procuring the
goods  from  a  single  source  under  the
provision of sub Rule 166 (i) and 166 (iii)
T h e
manufactured by M/s.......................
i n d e n t e d   g o o d s   a r e
(ii)  No other make or model is acceptable
f o l l o w i n g   r e a s o n s   :
f o r
(iii) Concurrence  of  finance  wing  to  the
t h e
(iv) Approval  of  the  competent  authority
(Signature with date and designation
of the indenting officer)
Rule 167  Electronic Reverse Auction
(i)  Electronic  Reverse  Auction  means  an
online real-time purchasing technique
utilised by the procuring entity to select
the  successful  bid,  which  involves
presentation by bidders of successively
favourable  bids  during  a
scheduled  period  of
automatic evaluation of bids;
(ii)  A  procuring  entity  may  choose  to
procure  a  subject  matter  of
procurement by the electronic reverse
auction method, if:
It  is  feasible  for  the  procuring
entity  to  formulate  a  detailed
description of the subject matter of
(b) There  is  a  competitive  market  of
bidders anticipated to be qualified
to  participate  in  the  electronic
reverse  auction,  so  that  effective
competition is ensured;
(c)  The  criteria  to  be  used  by  the
procuring entity in determining the
successful  bid  are  quantifiable
and can be expressed in monetary
(iii) The  procedure  for  electronic  reverse
auction  shall  include  the  following,
(a)  The  procuring  entity  shall  solicit
bids  through  an  invitation  to  the
electronic  reverse  auction  to  be
published  or  communicated  in
accordance  with  the  provisions
similar to e-procurement; and
(b) The invitation shall, in addition to
the  information  as  specified  in
opening  and  closing  of  the
auction and Norms for conduct of
Rule 168  Contents of Bidding Document
All the terms, conditions, stipulations and
information  to  be  incorporated  in  the
bidding document are to be shown in the
appropriate chapters as below :-
Chapter – 1:
Instructions to Bidders.
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 2:  Conditions of Contract.
Chapter – 3:  Schedule of Requirements.
Chapter – 4:  Specifications and allied
Chapter – 5: Price Schedule (to be
utilised by the bidders
for quoting their prices).
Chapter – 6:  Contract Form.
Chapter – 7:  Other  Standard  Forms,  if
any,  to  be  utilised  by  the
purchaser and the bidders.
Rule 169 Maintenance Contract.   Depending on
the  cost  and  nature  of  the  goods  to  be
purchased,  it  may  also  be  necessary  to
enter  into  maintenance  contract(s)  of
suitable period either with the supplier of
the  goods  or  with  any  other  competent
firm,  not  necessarily  the  supplier  of  the
subject  goods.  Such  maintenance
contracts  are  especially  needed
sophisticated  and  costly  equipment  and
machinery.  It  may,  however,  be  kept  in
mind that the equipment or machinery is
maintained free of charge by the supplier
during  its  warranty  period  or  such  other
extended  periods  as  the  contract  terms
may  provide  and  the  paid  maintenance
should commence only thereafter.
To  safeguard  against  a  bidder’s
withdrawing or altering its bid during
the bid validity period in the case of
advertised  or  limited  tender  enquiry,
Bid  Security  (also  known  as  Earnest
Money)  is  to  be  obtained  from  the
bidders  except  Micro  and  Small
Enterprises (MSEs) as defined in MSE
Department  of  Micro,  Small  and
Medium  Enterprises  (MSME)  or  are
registered  with  the  Central  Purchase
Ministry  or  Department.  The  bidders
should be asked to furnish bid security
along with their bids. Amount of bid
security  should  ordinarily  range
between two percent to five percent of
the estimated value of the goods to be
procured. The amount of bid security
should be determined accordingly by
the  Ministry  or  Department  and
indicated  in  the  bidding  documents.
The  bid  security  may  be  accepted  in
the  form  of  Account  Payee  Demand
Draft, Fixed Deposit Receipt, Banker’s
Cheque or Bank Guarantee from any
of the Commercial Banks or payment
in  an  acceptable
safeguarding the purchaser’s interest
in  all  respects.  The  bid  security  is
normally to remain valid for a period
of forty-five days beyond the final bid
(ii)  Bid  securities  of  the  unsuccessful
bidders should be returned to them at
the earliest after expiry of the final bid
validity and latest on or before the 30th
day after the award of the contract.
(iii)  In  place  of  a  Bid  security,  the
Ministries/  Departments  may  require
to  sign  a  Bid  securing
declaration  accepting  that  if  they
withdraw  or  modify  their  Bids  during
the  period  of  validity,  or  if  they  are
awarded the contract and they fail to
sign  the  contract,  or  to  submit  a
performance  security  before  the
deadline  defined  in  the  request  for
bids document, they will be suspended
for the period of time specified in the
request for bids document from being
eligible  to  submit  Bids  for  contracts
with the entity that invited the Bids.
To  ensure  due  performance  of  the
contract, Performance Security is to be
obtained  from  the  successful  bidder
awarded the contract. Unlike contracts
of  Works  and  Plants,  in  case  of
contracts for goods, the need for the
Performance Security depends on the
market  conditions  and  commercial
practice  for  the  particular  kind  of
goods.   Performance Security should
be  for  an  amount  of  five  to  ten  per
cent.  of  the  value  of  the  contract  as
the  bid  documents.
Performance  Security  may  be
furnished  in  the  form  of  an  Account
Payee  Demand  Draft,  Fixed  Deposit
Receipt  from  a  Commercial  bank,
Bank Guarantee from a Commercial
bank  or  online  payment
acceptable  form  safeguarding  the
purchaser’s interest in all respects.
(ii) Performance  Security  should  remain
valid for a period of sixty days beyond
the  date  of  completion  of  all
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 6
contractual obligations of the supplier
including warranty obligations.
(iii) Bid security should be refunded to the
successful  bidder  on  receipt  of
(1) Advance payment to supplier
Ordinarily, payments for services rendered
or supplies made should be released only
after the services have been rendered or
supplies made. However, it may become
necessary to make advance payments for
example in the following types of cases :-
(i)  Advance payment demanded by firms
holding  maintenance  contracts  for
servicing  of  Air- conditioners,
computers,  other  costly  equipment,
(ii)  Advance payment demanded by firms
against fabrication contracts, turn-key
Such  advance  payments  should  not
exceed the following limits :
(a) Thirty  per  cent.  of  the  contract
value to private firms;
(b)  Forty  per  cent.  of  the  contract
value to a State
Government  agency  or  a  Public
Sector Undertaking; or
(c)  in case of maintenance contract,
the amount should not exceed the
amount  payable  for  six  months
under the contract.
Ministries  or  Departments  of  the
Central  Government  may  relax,
in  consultation  with
Financial Advisers concerned, the
laid  down for advance  payment
above.  While  making  any
advance  payment  as  above,
adequate safeguards in the form
of bank guarantee etc. should be
obtained from the firm.
(2)  Part  payment  to  suppliers:
Depending  on  the  terms  of  delivery
incorporated in a contract, part payment
to  the  supplier  may  be  released  after  it
dispatches the goods from its premises in
terms of the contract.
purchases  should  be  made  in  a
transparent, competitive and fair manner,
to  secure  best  value  for  money.  This  will
also  enable  the  prospective  bidders  to
formulate and send their competitive bids
with confidence. Some of the measures for
ensuring the above are as follows:-
the  text  of  the  bidding  document
should  be  self-contained  and
c o m p r e h e n s i v e   w i t h o u t   a n y
a m b i g u i t i e s .   A l l   e s s e n t i a l
information,  which  a  bidder  needs
for  sending  responsive  bid,  should
be  clearly  spelt  out  in  the  bidding
document  in  simple  language.  The
condition of prior turnover and prior
experience  may  be  relaxed  for
Startups (as defined by Department
of  Industrial  Policy  and  Promotion)
subject  to  meeting  of  quality  &
technical specifications and making
suitable  provisions  in  the  bidding
document.  The  bidding  document
should contain, inter alia.
(a) Description and  Specifications
of goods  including the nature,
quantity,  time  and  place  or
places of delivery.
the  criteria  for  eligibility  and
qualifications to be met by the
bidders such as minimum level
o f   e x p e r i e n c e ,   p a s t
p e r f o r m a n c e ,
t e c h n i c a l
facilities and financial position
l i m i t a t i o n   f o r
e t c   o r
participation  of  the  bidders,  if
(c)  eligibility  criteria
indicating any legal restrictions
or conditions about the origin of
goods etc which may required
to  be  met  by  the  successful
the procedure as well as date,
time and place for sending the
time  and  place  of
opening of the bid.
(e)  Criteria for evaluation of bids
t e r m s   a f f e c t i n g
s p e c i a l
performance, if any.
E s s e n t i a l
t e r m s   o f   t h e
Rule 173  Transparency,  competition,  fairness
and elimination of arbitrariness in the
procurement  process    All  government
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(h) Bidding  Documents  should
include a clause that “if a firm
q u o t e s   N I L   c h a r g e s /
consideration, the bid shall be
treated  as  unresponsive  and
will not be considered”.
(ii)  Any  other  information  which  the
procuring entity considers necessary
for the bidders to submit their bids.
(iii) Modification to bidding document:
In  case  any  modification  is
made to the bidding document
or  any  clarification  is  issued
which  materially  affects  the
terms contained in the bidding
document, the procuring entity
shall  publish  or  communicate
s u c h   m o d i f i c a t i o n   o r
manner  as  the  publication  or
communication  of  the  initial
bidding document was made.
In  case  a  clarification  or
modification  is  issued  to  the
b i d d i n g   d o c u m e n t ,
t h e
procuring  entity  shall,  before
the last date for submission of
bids, extend such time limit, if,
in  its  opinion  more  time  is
required by bidders to take into
account  the  clarification  or
modification, as the case may
be, while submitting their bids.
t e r m s   o f
(c)  Any bidder who has submitted
his  bid  in  response  to  the
original  invitation  shall  have
the opportunity to modify or re-
submit it, as the case may be,
or   withdraw such bid in case
the  modification  to  bidding
document materially affect the
e s s e n t i a l
t h e
procurement, within the period
initially  allotted  or  such
extended  time  as  may  be
allowed for submission of bids,
the  modifications  are
made to the bidding document
by the procuring entity:
the  bid  as
modified by the bidder shall be
considered for evaluation
the  bidding  document  to  enable  a
conditions, bidding process and/ or
rejection of its bid. The reasons for
rejecting  a  tender  or  non-issuing  a
tender  document  to  a  prospective
bidder  must  be  disclosed  where
enquiries are made by the bidder.
Suitable  provision  for  settlement  of
disputes, if any, emanating from the
resultant contract, should be kept in
the bidding document.
The  bidding  document  should
indicate  clearly  that  the  resultant
contract  will  be  interpreted  under
(vii)  The  bidders  should  be  given
reasonable  time  to  prepare  and
send their bids.
(viii) The bids should be opened in public
and  authorised  representatives  of
the  bidders  should  be  permitted  to
attend the bid opening.
The  specifications  of  the  required
goods  should  be  clearly  stated
without  any  ambiguity  so  that  the
prospective  bidders  can  send
meaningful bids. In order to attract
sufficient  number  of  bidders,  the
specification should be broad based
to the extent feasible
Pre-bid conference: In case of turn-
key  contract(s)  or  contract(s)  of
special  nature  for  procurement  of
sophisticated  and  costly  equipment
or wherever felt necessary, a suitable
provision is to be kept in the bidding
documents for one or more rounds
of pre-bid conference for clarifying
issues  and  clearing  doubts,  if  any,
about  the  specifications  and  other
allied technical details of the plant,
equipment  and  machinery  etc.
projected in the bidding document.
The date, time and place of pre-bid
conference  should  be  indicated  in
the  bidding  document.  This  date
should  be  sufficiently  ahead  of  bid
opening  date.  The  records  of  such
conference shall be intimated to all
bidders and, shall also be exhibited
on the website(s) where tender was
(iv)  Suitable provision should be kept in
(xi)  C r i t e r i a
f o r   d e t e r m i n i n g
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 6
time of  delivery.
responsiveness are to be taken into
account for evaluating the bids such
(b) Pe r f o r m a n c e /   e f f i c i e n c y /
(c)  the  terms  of  payment  and  of
guarantees  in  respect  of  the
subject matter of procurement
(e)  cost  of  operating,  maintaining
and repairing etc.
(xii)  Bids received should be evaluated in
terms  of  the  conditions  already
documents; No new condition which
was not incorporated in the bidding
documents should be brought in for
e v a l u a t i o n   o f
t h e   b i d s .
D e t e r m i n a t i o n   o f   a   b i d ’ s
responsiveness should be based on
the contents of the bid itself without
recourse to extrinsic evidence.
(xiii)  Bidders should not be permitted to
alter or modify their bids after expiry
of the deadline for receipt of bids.
(xiv)  Negotiation  with  bidders  after  bid
o p e n i n g   m u s t   b e   s e v e r e l y
d i s c o u r a g e d .   H o w e v e r,
exceptional  circumstances  where
price negotiation against an ad-hoc
procurement  is  necessary  due  to
some  unavoidable  circumstances,
the  same  may  be  resorted  to  only
with the lowest evaluated responsive
In the Rate Contract system, where a
number of firms are brought on Rate
negotiation  as  well  as  counter
offering of rates are permitted to the
bidders and for this purpose special
permission  has  been  given  to  the
Directorate General of Supplies and
(xvi)  Contract  should  ordinarily  be
awarded  to  the  lowest  evaluated
bidder whose bid has been found to
be  responsive  and  who  is  eligible
contract  satisfactorily  as  per  the
terms  and  conditions  incorporated
the  corresponding  bidding
document.  However,  where
lowest  acceptable  bidder  against
ad-hoc  requirement  is  not  in  a
position  to  supply  the  full  quantity
required, the remaining quantity, as
far as possible, be ordered from the
next higher responsive bidder at the
rates  offered  by
(xvii) Procurement  of  Energy  Efficient
Electrical  Appliances:  Ministries/
Departments  while  procuring
electrical  appliances  notified  by
Department  of  Expenditure  shall
ensure  that  they  carry  the  notified
threshold  or  higher  Star  Rating  of
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE).
(xviii) The  name  of  the  successful  bidder
awarded  the  contract  should  be
mentioned in the CPPP, Ministries or
Departments  website  and  their
notice board or bulletin.
(xix)  Rejection of all Bids is justified when
a.  effective competition is lacking.
b.  all  Bids  and  Proposals  are  not
substantially  responsive  to  the
r e q u i r e m e n t s   o f   t h e
the  Bids’/Proposals’  prices  are
substantially  higher  that  the
updated  cost  estimate  or
available budget; or
d.  none of the technical Proposals
meets  the  minimum  technical
(xx)  Lack of competition in rule 173(xix)
shall not be determined solely on the
basis of the number of Bidders. Even
when only one Bid is submitted, the
process  may  be  considered  valid
provided  following  conditions  are
t h e   p r o c u r e m e n t   w a s
satisfactorily  advertised  and
sufficient  time  was  given  for
submission of bids.
the  qualification  criteria  were
not unduly restrictive; and
c.  prices  are  reasonable  in
comparison to market values
(xxi) When  a  limited  or  open  tender
results in only one effective offer, it
shall  be  treated  as  a  single  tender
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
In  case  a  purchase  Committee  is
c o n s t i t u t e d
t o   p u r c h a s e   o r
recommend  the  procurement,  no
member of the purchase Committee
should be reporting  directly  to any
other member of such Committee in
c a s e   e s t i m a t e d   v a l u e   o f
procurement exceeds Rs. 25 lakhs.
Rule 174  Efficiency, Economy and Accountability
in Public Procurement System.   Public
procurement  procedure  should  ensure
efficiency, economy and accountability in
the  system.  To  achieve  the  same,  the
following keys areas should be addressed
(i)  To  reduce  delay,  appropriate  time
frame for each stage of procurement
should be prescribed by the Ministry
o t h e r w i s e
i n f l u e n c e   t h e
(b)  a n y   o m i s s i o n ,   o r
mislead or attempt to mislead so
that financial or other benefit may
be  obtained  or  an  obligation
(c) any collusion, bid rigging or anti-
competitive  behavior  that  may
impair the transparency, fairness
the  progress  of  the
improper  use  of
provided by the procuring entity
to  the  bidder  with  an  intent  to
gain  unfair  advantage  in  the
procurement  process  or  for
(ii)  To  minimise  the  time  needed  for
decision  making  and  placement  of
contract,  every  Ministry/Department,
with  the  approval  of  the  competent
authority,  may  delegate,  wherever
necessary,  appropriate  purchasing
powers to the lower functionaries.
(iii)  The Ministries or Departments should
ensure  placement  of  contract  within
the  original  validity  of  the  bids.
Extension  of  bid  validity  must  be
discouraged  and  resorted  to  only  in
(iv)  The  Central  Purchase  Organisation
(e.g.  DGS&D)  should  bring  into  the
Rate Contract system more and more
items  which  are
frequently needed in bulk by various
Central  Government  Departments.
The  Central  Purchase  Organisation
(e.g. DGS&D) should also ensure that
the  Rate  Contracts  remain  available
without any break.
(1) Code of Integrity
No official of a procuring entity or a
bidder  shall  act  in  contravention  of
the codes which includes
(i)  prohibition of
(a) making  offer,  solicitation  or
acceptance  of  bribe,  reward  or
gift or any material benefit, either
directly or indirectly, in exchange
for  an  unfair  advantage  in  the
procurement  process  or
financial  or  business
transactions  between  the  bidder
and any official of the procuring
execution  process  of  contract;
which  can  affect  the  decision  of
the  procuring  entity    directly  or
(f)  any  coercion  or  any  threat  to
impair  or  harm,  directly  or
indirectly, any party or its property
to  influence  the  procurement
(g)  obstruction of any investigation or
auditing  of  a  procurement
false  declaration  or
providing  false  information  for
participation in a tender process
or to secure a contract;
(ii) disclosure of conflict of interest.
(iii) Disclosure  by  the  bidder  of  any
transgressions  made  in
respect of the provisions of sub-clause
(i) with any entity in any country during
the  last  three  years  or  of  being
debarred  by  any  other  procuring
(2)  The  procuring  entity,  after  giving  a
reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard,
comes to the conclusion that a bidder or
prospective  bidder,  as  the  case  may  be,
has contravened the code of integrity, may
take appropriate measures.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 6
Rule 176  Buy-Back Offer
When it is decided with the approval of the
competent authority to replace an existing
old item(s) with a new and better version,
the department may trade the existing old
item  while  purchasing  the  new  one.  For
this  purpose,  a  suitable  clause  is  to  be
incorporated in the bidding document so
that the prospective and interested bidders
their  bids  accordingly.
Depending on the value and condition of
the old item to be traded, the time as well
as the mode of handing over the old item
to the successful bidder should be decided
and relevant details in this regard suitably
incorporated  in  the  bidding  document.
Further, suitable provision should also be
kept in the bidding document to enable the
purchaser either to trade or not to trade the
item while purchasing the new one.
PROCUREMENT OF SERVICES
Rule  177  "Consulting  Service"  means  any  subject
matter  of  procurement
distinguished  from  ‘Non-  Consultancy
Services’  involves  primarily  non-physical
procedural  processes  where  outcomes/
deliverables  would  vary
consultant to another), other than goods
or  works,  except  those  incidental  or
consequential to the service, and includes
professional,  intellectual,  training  and
advisory  services  or  any  other  service
classified  or  declared  as  such  by  a
procuring entity but does not include direct
engagement    of  a  retired  Government
Note:  These  Services  typically  involve
providing expert or strategic advice e.g.,
m a n a g e m e n t   c o n s u l t a n t s ,   p o l i c y
consultants, communications consultants,
Advisory  and  project  related  Consulting
Services which  include, feasibility studies,
project  management,  engineering
services, finance, accounting and taxation
services, training and development etc.
The  Ministries  or  Departments  may  hire
external  professionals,  consultancy  firms
or  consultants  (referred  to  as  consultant
hereinafter) for a specific job, which is well
defined in terms of content and time frame
for its completion.
Rule  179  This  chapter  contains  the  fundamental
principles  applicable  to  all  Ministries  or
Departments  regarding  engagement  of
consultant(s).  Detailed  instructions  to  this
effect  may  be  issued  by  the  concerned
Ministries  or  Departments.  However,  the
Ministries or Departments shall ensure that
they  do  not  contravene  the  basic  rules
contained in this chapter.
Identification of Services required to be
performed by Consultants: Engagement
of  consultants  may  be  resorted  to  in
situations  requiring  high  quality  services
the  concerned  Ministry/
Department  does  not  have  requisite
expertise.  Approval  of  the  competent
authority  should  be  obtained  before
Preparation  of  scope  of  the  required
C o n s u l t a n t ( s ) :   T h e   M i n i s t r i e s /
Departments should prepare in simple and
the  scope  of  the
a s s i g n m e n t .   T h e   e l i g i b i l i t y   a n d
prequalification  criteria  to  be  met  by  the
consultants  should  also  be  clearly
identified at this stage.
Estimating  reasonable  expenditure:
Ministry  or  Department  proposing  to
engage  consultant(s)  should  estimate
reasonable  expenditure  for  the  same  by
the  prevalent  market
c on di ti on s   an d  c on s ul t i n g  oth e r
organisations engaged in similar activities.
Identification of likely sources.
(i)  Where  the  estimated  cost  of  the
consulting  service  is  up  to  Rupees
twenty-five  lakhs,  preparation  of  a
long list of potential consultants may
be  done  on  the  basis  of  formal  or
Ministries  or  Departments  or
activities, Chambers of Commerce &
Industry,  Association  of  consultancy
(ii)  Where  the  estimated  cost  of  the
consulting  services  is  above  Rupees
twenty-five  lakhs,  in  addition  to(i)
above,  an  enquiry
Interest ’  from
consultants  should  be  published  on
Central  Public  Procurement  Portal
(CPPP) at www.eprocure.gov.in and on
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GeM. An organisation having its own
website  should  also  publish  all  its
advertised    tender  enquiries  on  the
Expression  of  Interest  should  include
in  brief,  the  broad  scope  of  work  or
service, inputs to be provided by the
Ministry or Department, eligibility and
the pre-qualification criteria to bemet
by  the  consultant(s)  and  consultant’s
past  experience  in  similar  work  or
service. The consultants may also be
asked to send their comments on the
objectives  and  scope  of  the  work  or
Adequate time should be allowed for
Rule 184  Short  listing  of  consultants.    On  the
basis  of  responses  received  from  the
interested parties as per Rule 183 above,
should  be  short
consideration. The number of short listed
consultants should not be less than three.
Preparation  of  Terms  of  Reference
The TOR should include
(i)  Precise statement of objectives.
(ii)  Outline of the tasks to be carried out.
(iii)  Schedule for completion of tasks.
(iv)  The support or inputs to be provided
by  the  Ministry  or  Department  to
facilitate the consultancy.
(v)  List  of  key  position  whose  CV  and
experience would be evaluated.
(vi)  Bid  evaluation  criteria  and  selection
(vii) Standard  formats  for  technical  and
(viii) Proposed contract terms.
(ix) Procedure proposed to be followed for
midterm review of the progress of the
work  and  review  of  the  final  draft
Receipt  and  opening  of  proposals
Proposals  should  ordinarily  be  asked  for
from consultants in ‘Two bid’ system with
financial  bids  sealed
separately.  The  bidder  should  put  these
two sealed envelopes in a bigger envelop
duly  sealed  and  submit  the  same  to  the
Ministry  or  Department  by  the  specified
date and time at the specified place. On
receipt, the technical proposals should be
opened first by the Ministry or Department
at the specified date, time and place.
Late Bids. Late bids i.e. bids received after
the  specified  date  and  time  of  receipt
should not be considered.
Evaluation of Technical Bids:  Technical
bids should be analysed and evaluated by
a  Consultancy  Evaluation  Committee
(CEC)  constituted  by  the  Ministry  or
Department. The CEC shall record in detail
the reasons for acceptance or rejection of
the  technical  proposals  analysed  and
evaluated by it.
(v)  The final outputs that will be required
of the Consultant.
Rule 186  Preparation  and  Issue  of  Request  for
Proposal (RFP).   RFP is the document to
be  used  by  the  Ministry/Department  for
obtaining  offers  from  the  consultants  for
the  required  service.  The  RFP  should  be
issued to the shortlisted consultants to seek
their  technical  and  financial  proposals.
The RFP should contain :
(i)  A letter of Invitation
(ii)  Information to Consultants regarding
for  submission  of
(iii)  Terms of Reference (TOR).
(iv)  Eligibility  and  pre-qualification
criteria in case the same has not been
Expression of Interest.
Rule 190  Evaluation  of  Financial  Bids  of  the
technically  qualified  bidders:  The
Ministry  or  Department  shall  open  the
financial  bids  of  only  those  bidders  who
have  been  declared  technically  qualified
by the Consultancy Evaluation Committee
as per Rule 189 above for further analysis
or  evaluation  and  ranking  and  selecting
the successful bidder for placement of the
Rule 191 Methods  of  Selection/  Evaluation  of
The  basis  of  selection  of  the  consultant
shall  follow  any  of  the  methods  given  in
Rule  192  to  194  as  appropriate  for  the
circumstances in each case.
Rule 192. Quality  and  Cost  Based  Selection
(QCBS):QCBS  may  be  used  for
Procurement  of  consultancy  services,
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 6
where  quality  of  consultancy  is  of  prime
the  quality  of
technical  proposals  is  scored  as  per
criteria  announced  in  the  RFP.  Only
those responsive proposals that have
achieved  at  least  minimum  specified
qualifying score in quality of technical
proposal are considered further.
(ii) After  opening  and  scoring,
Financial  proposals  of  responsive
technically  qualified  bidders,  a  final
combined score is arrived at by giving
predefined relative weight ages for the
score  of  quality  of  the  technical
proposal  and  the  score  of  financial
(iii)  The  RFP  shall  specify  the  minimum
qualifying  score  for  the  quality  of
technical  proposal  and  also
relative weight ages to be given to the
quality and cost (determined for each
case  depending  on
importance  of  quality  vis-a-vis  cost
aspects in the assignment, e.g. 70:30,
60:40, 50:50 etc). The proposal with
the highest weighted combined score
(quality and cost) shall be selected.
(iv)  The  weight  age  of  the  technical
parameters in no case should exceed
Least  Cost  System  (LCS).  LCS
appropriate for assignments of a standard
or  routine  nature  (such  as  audits  and
engineering  design  of  non-complex
w o r k s )   w h e r e   w e l l   e s t a b l i s h e d
methodologies,  practices  and  standards
exist. Unlike QCBS, there is no weight age
for Technical score in the final evaluation
and  the  responsive  technically  qualified
proposal  with  the  lowest  evaluated  cost
shall be selected.
Single  Source  Selection/Consultancy
by nomination.   The selection by direct
negotiation/nomination,  on  the  lines  of
Single  Tender  mode  of  procurement  of
goods,  is  considered  appropriate  only
under exceptional circumstance such as:
that  represent  a  natural
continuation of previous work carried
out by the firm;
in  case  of  an  emergency  situation,
situations  arising  after  natural
disasters,  situations  where  timely
completion  of  the  assignment  is  of
utmost importance; and
(iii) situations  where  execution  of  the
involve  use  of
proprietary  techniques  or  only  one
consultant has requisite expertise.
(iv)  Under  some  special  circumstances,  it
may  become  necessary  to  select  a
particular consultant where adequate
single-source selection in the context
of the overall interest of the Ministry or
single  source  selection  should  be
recorded  in  the  file  and  approval  of
the  competent  authority  obtained
before resorting to such single-source
It shall ensure fairness and equity, and
shall  have  a  procedure  in  place  to
ensure that the prices are reasonable
and  consistent  with  market  rates  for
tasks  of  a  similar  nature;  and  the
required consultancy services are not
split into smaller sized procurement.
Rule 195 M o n i t o r i n g   t h e   C o n t r a c t .   T h e
Ministry/Department  should  be  involved
throughout in the conduct of consultancy,
preferably by taking a task force approach
and  continuously  monitoring  the
performance  of  the  consultant(s)  so  that
the output of the consultancy is in line with
the Ministry /Department’s objectives.
Public  competition  for  Design  of
symbols/logos.  Design  competition
should be conducted in a transparent, fair
and  objective  manner.  Wide  publicity
should be given to the competition so as to
ensure that the information is accessible to
all possible participants in the competition.
This  should  include  publication  on  the
w e b s i t e   o f   M i n i s t r y / D e p a r t m e n t
concerned,  as  also  the  Central  Public
Procurement  Portal.  If  the  selection  has
been by a jury of experts nominated for the
purpose, the composition of the jury may
also be notified.
OUTSOURCING OF SERVICES
"Non-Consulting  Service"  means  any
subject  matter  of  procurement  (which  as
‘ C o n s u l t a n c y
f r o m
d i s t i n g u i s h e d
Chapter – 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Services’),    involve  physical,  measurable
d e l i v e r a b l e s /   o u t c o m e s ,   w h e r e
performance  standards  can  be  clearly
identified  and  consistently  applied,  other
than  goods  or  works,  except
incidental or consequential to the service,
and  includes    maintenance,  hiring  of
vehicle, outsourcing of   building facilities
management,  security,  photocopier
service,  janitor,  office  errand  services,
drilling,  aerial  photography,  satellite
imagery, mapping etc.
Procurement  of  Non-consulting
A  Ministry  or  Department  may  procure
certain  non-consulting  services  in  the
interest of  economy  and efficiency  and  it
may  prescribe  detailed  instructions  and
this  purpose  without,
however, contravening the following basic
Identification of likely contractors.
The  Ministry  or  Department  should
prepare  a  list  of  likely  and  potential
contractors  on  the  basis  of  formal  or
informal enquiries from other Ministries or
Departments and Organisations involved
in  similar  activities,  scrutiny  of  ‘Yellow
pages’,  and  trade  journals,  if  available,
web site etc.
Preparation of Tender enquiry.
Ministry or Department should prepare a
tender enquiry containing, inter alia :
(i)  The details of the work or service to be
performed by the contractor;
(ii)  The facilities and the inputs which will
be  provided  to  the  contractor  by  the
Ministry or Department;
(iii)  Eligibility  and  qualification  criteria  to
be  met  by
performing the required work/service;
(iv) The  statutory  and  contractual
obligations to be complied with by the
Invitation of Bids.
(i)  For  estimated  value  of  the  non-
consulting  service  up  to  Rupees  ten
less:  The  Ministry  or
Department  should  scrutinise
preliminary list of likely contractors as
identified  as  per  Rule  199  above,
decide  the  prima  facie  Eligible  and
capable contractors and issue limited
tender enquiry to them asking for their
offers by a specified date and time etc.
as per standard practice. The number
of  the  contractors  so  identified  for
issuing limited tender enquiry should
be more than three.
(ii) For  estimated  value  of  the  non-
consulting service above Rs.10 lakhs:
The  Ministry  or  Department  should
issue  advertisement  in  such  case
should  be  given  on  Central  Public
P r o c u r e m e n t   P o r t a l ( C P P P ) a t
www.eprocure.gov.in and on GeM. An
organisation  having  its  own  website
should  also  publish  all  its  advertised
tender  enquiries  on  the  website.  The
tenders should give the complete  web
documents can be downloaded.
Rule 202  Late Bids. Late bids i.e. bids received after
the  specified  date  and  time  of  receipt
should not be considered.
Evaluation of Bids Received.
The  Ministry  or  Department  should
evaluate,  segregate,  rank  the  responsive
bids  and  select  the  successful  bidder  for
placement of the contract.
l e a d i n g
Rule 204  Procurement  of  Non-consulting
services  by  nomination.  Should
become  necessary,  in  an  exceptional
situation  to  procure  a  non-consulting
from  a  specifically  chosen
contractor, the Competent Authority in the
Ministry  or  Department  may  do  so  in
consultation with the Financial Adviser. In
such  cases  the  detailed  justification,  the
t o   s u c h
c i r c u m s t a n c e s
procurement  by  choice  and  the  special
interest or purpose it shall serve, shall form
an integral part of the proposal.
Rule 205 Monitoring the Contract.  The Ministry or
D e p a r t m e n t   s h o u l d   b e
i n v o l v e d
throughout in the conduct of the contract
and continuously monitor the performance
of the contractor.
Any circumstances which are not covered
in Rule 198 to Rule 205 for procurement of
non-consulting  services,  the  procuring
entity  may  refer  Rule  135  to  Rule  176
pertaining  to  procurement  of  goods  and
not  to  the  procurement  of  consulting
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 7
Rule  207  This  chapter  contains  the  basic  rules
applicable to all Ministries or Departments
instructions  and  procedures
relating to inventory management may be
prescribed  by  various  Ministries  or
Departments  broadly  in  conformity  with
the basic rules contained in this chapter.
(1)  Receipt  of  goods  and  materials
from private suppliers.
(i)  While  receiving  goods  and  materials
from a supplier, the officer–in-charge
of stores should refer to the relevant
prescribed procedure for receiving the
(ii)  All  materials  shall  be  counted,
measured or weighed and subjected
to  visual  inspection  at  the  time  of
receipt  to  ensure  that  the  quantities
are correct, the quality is according to
the required specifications and there
is  no  damage  or  deficiency  in  the
materials. Technical inspection where
required should be carried out at this
stage  by  Technical
Agency approved for the purpose. An
appropriate  receipt,  in  terms  of  the
relevant contract provisions may also
be given to the supplier on receiving
(iii)  Details  of  the  material  so  received
should  thereafter  be  entered  in  the
appropriate stock register, preferably
in an IT-based system. The officer-in-
charge of stores should certify that he
has actually received the material and
recorded  it  in  the  appropriate  stock
Receipt/issue  of  goods  and  materials
from  internal  divisions  of  the  same
The indenting officer requiring goods
and materials from internal division(s)
of  the  same  organisation  should
project  an  indent  in  the  prescribed
form for this purpose. While receiving
the  supply  against  the  indent,  the
indenting  officer  shall  examine,
count, measure or weigh the materials
as the case may be, to ensure that the
quantities are correct, the quality is in
line  with  the  required  specifications
and there is no damage or deficiency
in  the  materials.  An  appropriate
receipt shall also be given to this effect
by the indenting officer to the division
sending the materials.
(ii)  In the case of issue of materials from
s t o c k
f o r   d e p a r t m e n t a l   u s e ,
manufacture, sale, etc., the Officer-in
charge of the stores shall see that an
appropriate indent, in the prescribed
form  has  been  projected  by  the
indenting  officer.  A  written/online
acknowledgement  of  receipt  of
material issued shall be obtained from
the indenting officer or his authorised
representative at the time of issue of
(iii)  In  case  of  materials  issued  to  a
the  cost  of  which  is
recoverable  from  the  contractor,  all
recovery  rates  and  the  total  value
chargeable  to  the  contractor  should
be  got  acknowledged
contractor duly signed and dated.
(iv)  If the Officer-in-charge of the stores is
unable  to  comply  with  the  indent  in
full, he should make the supply to the
extent  available  and  make  suitable
entry  to  this  effect  in  the  indentor’s
copy of the indent. In case alternative
materials are available in lieu of the
indented  materials,  a  suitable
indication to this effect may be made
in the document.
Rule 210 Custody  of  goods  and  materials.  The
officer-in-charge of stores having custody
of  goods  and  materials,  especially
valuable and/or combustible articles, shall
take appropriate steps for arranging their
s a f e   c u s t o d y,   p r o p e r   s t o r a g e
accommodation, including arrangements
for  maintaining  required  temperature,
dust free environment etc.
Rule 211  Lists and Accounts.
(i)  The  Officer-in-charge  of  stores  shall
maintain  suitable  item-wise  lists  and
accounts  and  prepare  accurate
returns  in  respect  of  the  goods  and
materials  in  his  charge  making  it
possible at any point of time to check
the  actual  balances  with  the  book
the  stock  accounts
mentioned above shall be determined
with  reference  to  the  nature  of  the
Chapter – 7
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
goods and materials, the frequency of
(ii) Separate accounts shall be kept for
(a) Fixed  Assets  such  as  plant,
machinery, equipment, furniture,
fixtures etc. in the Form GFR-22.
(b)  Consumables  such  as  office
s t a t i o n e r y ,   c h e m i c a l s ,
maintenance  spare  parts  etc.  in
the Form GFR-23.
(c)  Library books in the Form GFR 18
(d)  Assets  of  historical/artistic  value
held  by  museum/government
departments in the Form GFR-24.
forms  can  be
supplemented  with  additional
d e t a i l s   b y   M i n i s t r i e s /
Departments as required.
Rule 212 Hiring out of Fixed Assets. When a fixed
asset is hired to local bodies, contractors
or others, proper record should be kept of
the assets and the hire and other charges
as determined under rules prescribed by
the  competent  authority,  should  be
recovered  regularly.  Calculation  of  the
charges  to  be  recovered  from  the  local
bodies,  contractors  and  others  as  above
should be based on the historical cost.
(1) Physical verification of Fixed Assets.
fixed  assets  shall
ordinarily  be  maintained  at  site.  Fixed
assets should be verified at least once in a
year  and  the  outcome  of  the  verification
recorded  in  the  corresponding  register.
Discrepancies,  if  any,  shall  be  promptly
investigated and brought to account.
(2) Verification of Consumables:
A  physical  verification  of  all
consumable goods and materials should
be undertaken at least once in a year and
discrepancies, if any, should be recorded
in the stock register for appropriate action
by the competent authority.
(3) Procedure for verification :
(i) Verification  shall  always  be  made  in
the presence of the officer, responsible
for the custody of the inventory being
(ii) A certificate of verification along with
the findings shall be recorded in the
(iii) Discrepancies,  including  shortages,
damages and unserviceable goods, if
identified  during  verification,
shall  immediately  be  brought  to  the
notice  of  the  competent  authority  for
t a k i n g   a p p r o p r i a t e   a c t i o n   i n
accordance  with  provision  given  in
Rule 33 to 38.
Buffer Stock. Depending on the frequency
of requirement and quantity thereof as well
as the pattern of supply of a consumable
material, optimum buffer stock should be
determined by the competent authority.
Note: As the inventory carrying cost is an
expenditure that does not add value to the
material  being  stocked,  a  material
remaining  in  stock  for  over  a  year  shall
generally  be  considered  surplus,  unless
adequate reasons to treat it otherwise exist.
The items so declared surplus may be dealt
as per the procedure laid down under Rule
Physical verification of Library books.
(i)  Complete  physical  verification  of
books  should  be  done  every  year  in
case of libraries having not more than
twenty thousand volumes. For libraries
having  more  than  twenty  thousand
volumes  and  up  to  fifty  thousand
volumes,  such  verification  should  be
done  at  least  once  in  three  years.
Sample  physical  verification  at
intervals of not more than three years
should  be  done  in  case  of  libraries
volumes.  In  case  such  verification
reveals  unusual  or  unreasonable
shortages, complete verification shall
(ii) Loss of five volumes per one thousand
volumes of books issued/consulted in
a  year  may  be  taken  as  reasonable
losses  are  not
to  dishonesty  or
negligence. However, loss of a book of
a value exceeding Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees
One  thousand  only)  and  rare  books
irrespective of value shall invariably be
investigated  and  appropriate  action
Transfer of charge of goods, materials
etc. In case of transfer of Officer-in-charge
of the goods, materials etc., the transferred
officer shall see that the goods or material
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 7
are made over correctly to his successor. A
statement giving all relevant details of the
goods, materials etc., in question shall be
prepared  and  signed  with  date  by  the
relieving  officer  and  the  relieved  officer.
Each of these officers will retain a copy of
the signed statement.
Rule 217 Disposal of Goods.
(i) An  item  may  be  declared  surplus  or
obsolete or unserviceable if the same
is  of  no  use  to  the  Ministry  or
Department.  The  reasons
declaring the item surplus or obsolete
or unserviceable should be recorded
the  authority  competent
purchase the item.
(ii)  The  competent  authority  may,  at  his
discretion,  constitute  a  committee  at
appropriate level to declare item(s) as
surplus or obsolete or unserviceable.
(iii)  The  book  value,  guiding  price  and
reserved price, which will be required
while disposing of the surplus goods,
should  also  be  worked  out.  In  case
where it is not possible to work out the
book  value,  the  original  purchase
price of the goods in question may be
utilised. A report of stores for disposal
shall be prepared in Form GFR - 10.
I n   c a s e   a n
i t e m   b e c o m e s
fraud  or  mischief  on  the  part  of  a
Government  servant,  responsibility
for the same should be fixed.
(v)  Sale  of  Hazardous  waste/Scrap
Batteries/Electronic  waste:  Scrap
lots  comprising  of  hazardous  waste,
batteries etc. shall be sold keeping in
view the extant guidelines of Ministry
of Environment & Forest.   Prospective
bidders  of  such  lots  of  hazardous
waste/scrap batteries/ e-waste should
be in possession of registration, valid
on the date of e-Auction and on the
date  of  delivery,  as  recycler/  pre-
Rule 218 Modes of Disposal.
(I) Surplus  or  obsolete  or  unserviceable
goods  of  assessed  residual  value
above  Rupees  Two  Lakh  should  be
disposed of by :
(a) obtaining bids through advertised
(b) public auction.
t h e   n e c e s s i t y
(ii) Fo r   s u r p l u s   o r   o b s o l e t e   o r
unserviceable  goods  with  residual
value less than Rupees Two Lakh, the
mode of disposal will be determined
by the competent authority, keeping in
v i e w
t o   a v o i d
accumulation  of  such  goods  and
consequential blockage of space and,
also, deterioration in value of goods to
b e   d i s p o s e d   o f .   M i n i s t r i e s /
Departments  should,  as  far  as
possible prepare a list of such goods.
(iii) Certain  surplus  or  obsolete  or
unserviceable goods such as expired
medicines,  food  grain,  ammunition
etc., which are hazardous or unfit for
human  consumption,  should  be
disposed of or destroyed immediately
by  adopting  suitable  mode  so  as  to
avoid  any  health  hazard  and/or
environmental pollution and also the
possibility of misuse of such goods.
(iv) Surplus  or  obsolete  or  unserviceable
goods,  equipment  and  documents,
which  involve  security  concerns  (e.g.
receipt  books,  stamps,  security  press
etc.) should be disposed of/ destroyed
in  an  appropriate  manner  to  ensure
compliance  with  rules  relating  to
official  secrets  as  well  as  financial
Rule 219 Disposal  through  Advertised  Tender.
(i) The broad steps to be adopted for this
purpose are as follows :
(a) P r e p a r a t i o n   o f   b i d d i n g
Invitation of tender for the surplus
goods to be sold.
(c) Opening of bids.
(d) Analysis  and  evaluation  of  bids
(e) Selection  of  highest  responsive
(f)  Collection of sale value from the
Issue of sale release order to the
(h)  Release of the sold surplus goods
to the selected bidder.
(i)  Return  of  bid  security  to  the
(ii) The  important  aspects  to  be  kept
Chapter – 7
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
in  view  while  disposing  the  goods
through  advertised  tender  are  as
(a) The basic principle for sale of
s u c h   g o o d s
t h r o u g h
advertised tender is ensuring
fairness  and  elimination  of
discretion.  Wide  publicity
should be ensured of the sale
plan  and  the  goods  to  be
sold.  All  the  required  terms
and conditions of sale are to
b i d d i n g   d o c u m e n t
comprehensively in plain and
l a n g u a g e .
s i m p l e
relevant,  should  be  clearly
stated in the document.
(b) The  bidding  document
l o c a t i o n   a n d   p r e s e n t
condition of the goods to be
sold  so  that  the  bidders  can
the  goods  before
(c) The bidders should be asked
to  furnish  bid  security  along
with their bids. The amount of
bid security should ordinarily
ten  per  cent.  of
assessed or reserved price of
the  goods.  The  exact  bid
security  amount  should  be
(d) The  bid  of
that  bi dder
acceptable responsive bidder
should normally be accepted.
However, if the price offered
acceptable,  negotiation  may
be held only with that bidder.
In case such negotiation does
not provide the desired result,
the reasonable or acceptable
price may be counter offered
to the next highest responsive
In case the total quantity to be
disposed of cannot be taken
up by the highest acceptable
b i d d e r,
t h e   r e m a i n i n g
quantity may be offered to the
next  higher  bidder(s)  at  the
price  offered  by  the  highest
(f) Full payment, i.e. the residual
amount after adjusting the bid
security  should  be  obtained
from  the  successful  bidder
before releasing the goods.
In  case  the  selected  bidder
does  not  show  interest  in
lifting  the  goods,  the  bid
security  should  be  forfeited
and  other  actions  initiated
including re-sale of the goods
in question at the risk and cost
th e   de f aul te r,  af te r
obtaining legal advice.
(iii)  Late  bids  i.e.  bids  received  after  the
specified date and time of receipt should
not to be considered.
Rule 220 Disposal through Auction.
(i) A  Ministry  or  Department  may
undertake  auction  of  goods  to  be
disposed of either directly or through
t o   e n s u r e
(ii) The  basic  principles  to  be  followed
here are similar to those applicable for
disposal through advertised tender so
t r a n s p a r e n c y,
competition, fairness and elimination
of  discretion.  The  auction  plan
including  details  of  the  goods  to  be
applicable terms and conditions of the
sale etc. should be given wide publicity
in the same manner as is done in case
of advertised tender.
(iii) While starting the auction process, the
condition and location of the goods to
be  auctioned,  applicable  terms  and
conditions  of  sale  etc.,  (as  already
indicated  earlier  while  giving  vide
publicity  for  the  same),  should  be
announced again for the benefit of the
(iv) D u r i n g
t h e   a u c t i o n   p r o c e s s ,
acceptance or rejection of a bid should
be  announced  immediately  on  the
stroke  of  the  hammer.  If  a  bid  is
accepted,  earnest  money  (not  less
than  twenty-five  per  cent.  of  the  bid
value) should immediately be taken on
the  spot  from  the  successful  bidder
Chapter – 7
(iii) anticipated  losses  on  account  of
obsolescence of stores or of purchases
in excess of requirements;
losses due to damage, and
losses due to extra ordinary situations
under ‘Force Majeure’ conditions like
fire, flood, enemy action, etc.;
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
either  in  cash  or  in  the  form  of
drawn  in  favour  of  the  Ministry  or
Department  selling  the  goods.  The
goods should be handed over to the
successful bidder only after receiving
the balance payment.
(v) The composition of the auction team
will  be  decided  by  the  competent
authority.  The  team  should  however
include  an  officer  of  the  Internal
Finance Wing of the department
Rule 221 Disposal  at  scrap  value  or  by  other
modes.  If  a  Ministry  or  Department  is
unable to sell any surplus or obsolete or
unserviceable item in spite of its attempts
through  advertised  tender  or  auction,  it
may dispose of the same at its scrap value
with  the  approval  of  the  competent
authority  in  consultation  with  Finance
the  Ministry  or
Department is unable to sell the item even
at its scrap value, it may adopt any other
mode of disposal including destruction of
the item in an eco-friendly manner.
Rule 222  A  sale  account  should  be  prepared  for
goods disposed of in Form GFR 11 duly
signed  by  the  officer  who  supervised  the
sale or auction.
(1)  Powers  to  write  off.  All  profits  and
losses due to revaluation, stock-taking or
other causes  shall  be  duly recorded and
adjusted  where  necessary.  Formal
sanction of the competent authority shall
be  obtained  in  respect  of  losses,  even
though no formal correction or adjustment
in  government  accounts
Powers to write off of losses are available
under the Delegation of Financial Powers
(2) Losses due to depreciation : Losses
due to depreciation shall be analysed, and
following  heads,  as
(I) normal fluctuation of market prices;
(ii) normal wear and tear;
(iii) lack  of
(iv)  negligence after purchase.
(3)  Losses  not  due  to  depreciation  :
Losses  not  due  to  depreciation  shall  be
grouped under the following heads :-
losses due to theft or fraud;
(ii)  losses due to neglect;
Chapter – 8
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(1)  All  contracts  shall  be  made  by  an
authority empowered to do so by or under
the  orders  of  the  President  in  terms  of
Article 299 (1) of the Constitution of India.
(2)  All  the  contracts  and  assurances  of
property  made  in  the  exercise  of  the
executive  power  of  the  Union  shall  be
executed  on  behalf  of  the  President.  The
words “for and on behalf of the President
of  India”  should  follow  the  designation
appended  below  the  signature  of  the
officer authorized in this behalf.
Note 1:  The  various  classes  of  contracts
and assurances of property, which may be
executed  by  different  authorities,  are
specified in the Notifications issued by the
Ministry of Law from time to time.
Note 2: The powers of various authorities,
the  conditions  under  which  such  powers
should  be  exercised  and  the  general
procedure  prescribed  with  regard
various  classes  of  contracts  and
assurances  of  property  are  laid  down  in
Rule  21  of  the  Delegation  of  Financial
Rule 225  General principles for contract.
The following general principles should be
observed while entering into contracts:—
The terms of contract must be precise,
definite and without any ambiguities.
The  terms  should  not  involve  an
uncertain or indefinite liability, except
in the case of a cost plus contract or
where there is a price variation clause
in the contract.
(ii) Standard forms of contracts should be
adopted wherever possible, with such
modifications  as  are  considered
necessary  in  respect  of  individual
contracts.  The  modifications  should
be  carried  out  only  after  obtaining
financial and legal advice.
(iii)  In  cases  where  standard  forms  of
contracts  are  not  used,  legal  and
financial  advice  should  be  taken  in
drafting the clauses in the contract.
(iv) (a) A Ministry or Department may, at its
discretion,  make  purchases  of
value up to Rupees two lakh and
fifty thousand by issuing purchase
orders containing basic terms and
(b) In respect of Works Contracts, or
Contracts  for  purchases  valued
between  Rupees  one  lakh  to
Rupees  ten  lakhs,  where  tender
documents  include  the  General
Conditions  of  Contract  (GCC),
Special  Conditions  of  Contract
(SCC)  and  scope  of  work,  the
letter of acceptance will result in a
(c)  In  respect  of  contracts  for  works
with estimated value of Rupees ten
lakhs  or  above  or  for  purchase
Contract  document  should  be
executed,  with  all  necessary
it  a  self-
contained  contract.  If  however,
these are preceded by Invitation to
Tender,  accompanied  by  GCC
and SCC, with full details of scope
and  specifications,  a  simple  one
page contract can be entered into
by  attaching  copies  of  the  GCC
and  SCC,  and  details  of  scope
and  specifications,  Offer  of  the
Te n d e r e r   a n d   L e t t e r   o f
(d)  Contract  document  should  be
invariably  executed  in  cases  of
turnkey works or agreements for
maintenance  of  equipment,
provision of services etc.
(v)  No  work  of  any  kind  should  be
commenced without proper execution
of  an  agreement  as  given  in  the
(vi) Contract document, where necessary,
should be executed within 21 days of
the issue of letter of acceptance. Non-
fulfilment of this condition of executing
a  contract  by  the  Contractor  or
Supplier  would  constitute  sufficient
ground  for  annulment  of  the  award
forfeiture  of  Earnest  Money
(vii)  Cost  plus  contracts  should  ordinarily
be  avoided.  Where  such  contracts
become unavoidable, full justification
should  be  recorded  before  entering
into  the  contract.  Where  supplies  or
special work covered by such cost plus
contracts have to continue over a long
duration,  efforts  should  be  made  to
convert future contracts on a firm price
basis  after  allowing  a  reasonable
period to the suppliers/contractors to
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 8
stabilize  their  production/  execution
methods and processes.
Explanation : A cost plus contract means
a contract in which the price payable for
supplies or services under the contract is
determined on the basis of actual cost of
production  of  the  supplies  or  services
concerned plus profit either at a fixed rate
per  unit  or  at  a  fixed  percentage  on  the
actual cost of production.
(viii)  (a)  Price  Variation  Clause  can  be
period  extends  beyond  18
months.  In  short-term  contracts
firm  and  fixed  prices  should  be
provided  for.  Where  a  price
variation  clause  is  provided,  the
price agreed upon should specify
the base level viz, the month and
year to which the price is linked,
to  enable  variations  being
calculated  with  reference  to  the
price  levels  prevailing  in  that
month and year.
(b)  A  formula  for  calculation  of  the
price  variations  that  have  taken
place between the Base level and
the  Scheduled  Delivery  Date
should be included in this clause.
The  variations  are  calculated  by
indices  published  by
Governments  or  Chambers  of
Commerce  periodically.  An
formula  has  been
these  rules  at
Appendix -11 for guidance.
(c) The Price variation clause should
also  specify  cut  off  dates  for
material  and  labour,  as  these
inputs  taper  off  well  before  the
scheduled Delivery Dates.
(d) The price variation clause should
provide  for  a  ceiling  on  price
variations,  particularly  where
escalations are involved. It could
be a percentage per annum or an
overall ceiling or both. The buyer
should ensure a provision in the
for  benefit  of  any
reduction in the price in terms of
the  price  variation  clause  being
passed on to him.
(e) The clause should also stipulate a
minimum percentage of variation
of the contract price above which
price variations will be admissible
(e.g.  where  resultant  increase  is
lower than two per cent. no price
adjustment will be made in favour
of the supplier).
(f)  W h e r e   a d v a n c e   o r   s t a g e
payments are made there should
be  a  further  stipulation  that  no
price variations will be admissible
on such portions of the price, after
the dates of such payment.
(g) Where  deliveries  are  accepted
beyond  the  scheduled  Delivery
Date subject to levy of liquidated
damages  as  provided  in  the
Contract, the liquidated damages
(if a percentage of the price) will
be  applicable  on  the  price  as
varied  by  the  operation  of  the
Price variation clause.
(h) No  price  variation  will  be
admissible  beyond  the  original
Scheduled  Delivery  Date  for
the  part  of  the
(i)  Price  variation  may  be  allowed
beyond  the  original  Scheduled
Delivery  Date,  by  specific
alteration of that date through an
amendment  to  the  contract  in
cases of Force Majeure or defaults
(j) Where contracts are for supply of
equipment,  goods  etc,  imported
(subject  to  customs  duty  and
(subject  to  excise  duty  and  other
duties and taxes), the percentage
and  element  of  duties  and  taxes
included  in  the  price  should  be
specifically stated, along with the
selling  rate  of  foreign  exchange
element taken into account in the
calculation  of  the  price  of  the
The  mode  of  calculation  of
variations in duties and taxes and
Foreign  exchange  rates  and  the
documents  to  be  produced  in
support  of  claims
variations  should  also  be
stipulated in the Contract.
Chapter – 8
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(k) The  clause  should  also  contain
the mode and terms of payment
of the price variation admissible.
(ix) Contracts should include provision for
payment of all applicable taxes by the
contractor or supplier.
(x) “Lump  sum’  contracts  should  not  be
in  cases  of
absolute  necessity.  Where  lump  sum
contracts  become  unavoidable,  full
justification should be recorded. The
contracting  authority  should  ensure
that  conditions  in  the  lump  sum
contract  adequately  safeguard  and
t h e
p r o t e c t
i n t e r e s t s   o f
t h e
issue  of  materials
should be avoided as far as possible.
Where it is decided to supply materials
departmentally,  a  schedule  of
quantities with the issue rates of such
material as are required to execute the
contract  work  should
essential part of the contract.
(xii)(a)  In  contracts  where  government
for  use  on
payment  of  hire  charges  or  for
further  work  on  such
property,  specific  provision  for
s a f e g u a r d i n g   g o v e r n m e n t
cover)  and  for  recovery  of  hire
charges  regularly,  should  be
included in the contracts.
(b)  Provision  should  be  made  in  the
contract  for  periodical  physical
verification of the number and the
physical condition of the items at
the contractor’s premises. Results
of  such  verification  should  be
recorded and appropriate penal
action taken where necessary.
(xiii) Copies  of  all  contracts  and
agreements for purchases of the value
of  Rupees  Twenty-five  Lakhs  and
above,  and  of  all  rate  and  running
into  by  civil
departments of the Government other
Directorate  General  of  Supplies  and
Disposals  for  which  a  special  audit
procedure exists, should be sent to the
Audit  Officer  and  /or  the  Accounts
officer as the case may be.
terms  of  a  contract,
the  scope  and
specification once entered into,
should not be materially varied.
(b) Wherever material variation in
any of the terms or conditions in
a   c o n t r a c t   b e c o m e s
unavoidable, the financial and
other effects involved should be
examined  and  recorded  and
specific  approval  of  the
authority competent to approve
the revised financial and other
commitments obtained, before
varying the conditions.
(c)  All such changes should be in
the  form  of  an  amendment  to
the contract duly signed by all
parties to the contract.
(xv)  Normally  no  extensions  of  the
scheduled  delivery  or  completion
dates  should  be  granted  except
where  events  constituting
majeure,  as  provided
contract, have occurred or the terms
include  such  a
for  other  reasons.
Extensions  as  provided
contract  may  be  allowed  through
formal amendments to the contract
duly  signed  by  parties
(xvi)  All  contracts  shall  contain  a
provision for recovery of liquidated
damages for defaults on the part of
the  contractor.  Only  in  exceptional
circumstances  to  be  justified  by
in  writing,  an
exemption from such provision can
(xvii) A  warranty  clause  should  be
in  every  contract,
requiring  the  supplier  to,  without
charge,  repair  or  rectify  defective
goods or to replace such goods with
similar goods free from defect. Any
goods  repaired  or  replaced  by  the
supplier  shall  be  delivered  at  the
buyers premises without costs to the
(xviii)  All  contracts  for  supply  of  goods
the  right  of
Government  to  reject  goods  which
do not conform to the specifications.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 8
(xix)  No  claim  for  the  payment  from
contractor shall be entertained after
the lapse of three years of arising of
Rule 226 Management of Contracts.
Implementation of the contract should
be  strictly  monitored  and  notices
issued promptly whenever a breach of
(ii)  Proper procedure for safe custody and
monitoring  of  Bank  Guarantees  or
other  Instruments  should  be  laid
down.  Monitoring  should  include  a
m o n t h l y   r e v i e w   o f   a l l   B a n k
Guarantees  or  other
expiring  after  three  months,  along
with a review of the progress of supply
or  work.  Extensions  of  Bank
Guarantees  or  other  instruments,
where  warranted,  should  be  sought
W h e r e v e r   d i s p u t e s   a r i s e   d u r i n g
implementation of a contract, legal advice
should be sought before initiating action
to refer the dispute to conciliation and/or
arbitration as provided in the contract or
to file a suit where the contract does not
include an arbitration clause. The draft of
the  plaint  for  arbitration  should  be  got
vetted  by  obtaining  legal  and  financial
advice. Documents to be filed in the matter
of resolution of dispute, if any, should be
carefully  scrutinized  before
safeguard government interest.
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GRANTS-IN-AID AND LOANS
Rule 228  As a general principle Grants-in-aid can
be given to a person or a public body or an
institution  having  a  distinct  legal  entity.
Thus Grants-in-aid including scholarships
may  be  sanctioned  by  an  authority
competent to do so under the Delegation
of Financial Powers Rules to :—
Institutions or Organizations set up as
Autonomous Organisations, under a
specific  statute  or  as  a  society
Registration Act, 1860 or Indian Trusts
Act, 1882 or other statutes.
(b) Voluntary  organizations  or  Non-
Government  Organisations  carrying
out  activities  which  promote
welfare schemes and programmes of
the  Government  should  be  selected
on  the  basis  of  well-defined  criteria
financial  and  other
resources,  credibility  and  type  of
(c) Educational  and  other  institutions  by
way of scholarships or stipends to the
(d) Urban  and  Rural
(e) Co-operative societies.
(f) Societies  or  clubs  set  up  by
amongst  themselves  social,  cultural
and  sports  activities  as  recreational
Rule 229 General  Principles  for  setting  up  of
Autonomous Organisations referred to
under Rule 228(a):-
(i) No  new  autonomous
should  be  created  by  Ministries  or
Departments without the approval of
(ii) No  new  autonomous
should be created by an Autonomous
Body  itself,  the  appraisal/approval
for  creation  of  new
autonomous  bodies  would  apply  in
such  cases  too.  However,  Regional
Centres/Offices/Sub-Stations  of  any
autonomous body can be created with
prior  approval  of  the  administrative
ministry  in  consultation  with  Ministry
(iii) Stringent  criteria  should  be  followed
for  setting  up  of  new  autonomous
organisations and the type of activities
to  be  undertaken  by  them.  The
Ministry  or  Department  should
examine  in  detail:  (a)  whether  the
activities proposed to be taken up are
necessary  at  all;  (b)  whether  these
activities,  if  necessary,  need  to  be
undertaken  by  setting  up  an
autonomous  organisation  only  or
whether these could be performed by
the concerned Government agency or
any  other  organisation  already
(iv) All autonomous organisations, new or
in  existence  should  be
encouraged  to  maximise  generation
of  internal  resources  and  eventually
(v) The  Ministry  or  Department  may
consider  creating  a  Corpus  Fund  for
an Autonomous Body only with prior
concurrence  of  Ministry  of  Finance  if
the corpus is created out of budgetary
allocation. If the corpus is created out
of  internal  accruals  of  the  body,
approval of the administrative Ministry
must be obtained.
(vi) User Charges: Governing Body of the
Autonomous  Body  shall  review  user
charges/  sources  of  internal  revenue
generation  at  least  once  a  year  and
inform the administrative Ministry. This
exercise  should  preferably  be
completed  before  the  formulation  of
Union Annual Budget.
(vii) All  Autonomous  Bodies  should
maintain database relating to grants,
assets  and  employee  strength  in  the
format prescribed by the Department
of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance.
B o d i e s :   E v e r y   a u t o n o m o u s
organisation  should  designate  an
officer  at  appropriate  level  to  render
financial  advice  whose  concurrence
should be obtained for sanction and
incurring of expenditure. The financial
limits up to which such concurrence is
mandatory may be drawn up by each
organisation.  The  Chief  Executive
Officer  of  the  Autonomous  body  will
be  responsible  for  overall  financial
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
(ix) Pe e r   r e v i e w   o f   a u t o n o m o u s
organisations:  Ministry  shall  put  in
place a system of external or internal
p e e r   r e v i e w   o f   a u t o n o m o u s
organisations every three or five years
depending on the size and nature of
activity.   Such a review should be the
administrative  division  of
Ministry/Department  and  should
focus, inter alia, on;
autonomous organisation was set
up  and  whether  these  objectives
have been or are being achieved;
(b) whether  the  activities  should  be
continued  at  all,  either  because
they  are  no  longer  relevant  or
have  been  completed  or  if  there
has  been  a  substantial  failure  in
achievement of objectives.
(c) whether the nature of the activities
is  such  that  these  need  to  be
p e r f o r m e d   o n l y   b y   a n
(d) whether similar functions are also
being  undertaken  by  other
Central  Government  or  State
Governments or the Private Sector,
and if so, whether there is scope
for  merging  or  winding  up  the
organisations under review.
(e) w h e t h e r
t h e
t o t a l   s t a f f
complement,  particularly  at  the
is  kept  at  a
minimum: whether the enormous
strides  in  information  technology
and  communication  facilities  as
also  facilities  for  outsourcing  of
work  on  a  contract  basis,  have
determining  staff  strength;  and
whether  scientific  or
personnel are being deployed on
functions  which  could  well  be
carried  out  by  non-scientific  or
non-technical personnel etc.
(f) whether  user  charges  including
overhead/  institutional  charges  /
management  fee  in  respect  of
sponsored projects, wherever the
output  or  benefit  of  services  are
utilised  by  others,  are  levied  at
the scope for maximizing internal
resources  generation  in  the
o r g a n i s a t i o n   s o
t h a t   t h e
dependence  upon  Government
budgetary support is minimised.
(x) An organisation whose performance is
to  be  outstanding  and
internationally acclaimed as a result of
the  review  envisaged  under  Para  (v)
above  should  be  granted  greater
autonomy and increased flexibility in
matters  of  recruitment  and  financial
rules thereby enabling it to devise and
adopt staff structures, procedures and
(xi) Autonomous  organisations  as  also
others  with  a  budgetary  support  of
more  than  Rupees  five  crores  per
annum,  should  be  required  to  enter
i n t o   a   M e m o r a n d u m   o f
Understanding with the Administrative
Ministry  or  Department,  spelling  out
clearly  performance  parameters,
output  targets  in  terms  of  details  of
programme  of  work  and  qualitative
improvement  in  output,  along  with
commensurate  input  requirements.
targets,  given  in
measurable  units  of  performance,
should  form  the  basis  of  budgetary
s u p p o r t   e x t e n d e d
t o   t h e s e
organisations.  The  roadmap  for
improved  performance  with  clear
milestones  should  form  part  of  the
(xii) Findings of the peer review should be
examined and put up for appropriate
decision  to  the  Secretary  by  the
concerned programme division of the
Administrative  Department.  Further
releases  of  Grant  (after  three  or  five
years, as the case may be), should be
made  conditional  on  conduct  and
decisions on the findings of such peer
(1) Principles and Procedure for award
Any  Institution  or  Organisation  seeking
Grants-in-aid  from  Government  will  be
required  to  submit  an  application  which
includes  all  relevant  information  such  as
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Articles of Association, bye-laws, audited
statement  of  accounts,  sources  and
pattern  of  income  and  expenditure  etc.
enabling  the  sanctioning  authority  to
assess  the  suitability  of  the  Institution  or
Organisation  seeking  Grant.  The
application  should  clearly  spell  out  the
need  for  seeking  Grant  and  should  be
submitted  in  such  form  as  may  be
prescribed  by  the  sanctioning  authority.
The  Institution  or  Organisation  seeking
Grants-in-aid should also certify that it has
not obtained or applied for grants for the
same  purpose  or  activity  from  any  other
Ministry or Department of the Government
of India or State Government.
(2)  In  order  to  obviate  duplication  in
G r a n t s - i n - a i d ,   e a c h   M i n i s t r y   o r
Department  should  maintain  a  list  of
institutions  or  organisations  along  with
details of amount and purpose of Grants
given to them.   These details should also
be made available on the website of the
(3) Award of Grants should be considered
only  on  the  basis  of  viable  and  specific
schemes  drawn  up  in  sufficient  detail  by
the institution or organisation. The budget
for  such  schemes  should  disclose,  inter
alia, the specific quantified and qualitative
targets  likely  to  be  attained  against  the
outlay. In the cases of the schemes where
Grants are given as part of the expenditure
on  reimbursement  basis
expenditure  has  already  been  incurred
on  approved  project/scheme  and
reimbursement  from  the  Government  in
the form of Grant/Subsidy etc. is due) the
same  will  be  treated  as  the  Central
(CFA)  and  no
Utilization Certificate shall be required in
such cases of reimbursements.
(4)  Recurring  Grant  is  defined  as  one
which is released periodically to the same
organization for the same purpose. Non-
recurring Grant is one time release to an
organization for a special purpose (which
could  be  released  in  instalments).  Every
order  sanctioning  a  Grant  shall  indicate
whether  it  is  recurring  or  non-recurring
and specify clearly the object for which it is
being given and the general and special
conditions, if any, attached to the Grant. In
the  case  of  non-recurring  Grants  for
specified  object,  the  order  shall  also
specify  the  time  limit  within  which  the
Grant  or  each  instalment  of  it,  is  to  be
(5)    Central  Autonomous  Organisations
which  receive  Grants  should  account  for
capital  and  revenue  expenditure
separately.    The  Government  of  India,
Ministry  of  Finance  has
standard formats for presentation of final
accounts,  for  all  Central  Autonomous
Organisations.  All  Grant  sanctioning
authorities should enforce the condition of
maintaining  and  presenting  their  annual
accounts  in  the  standard  formats  on  all
Central Autonomous Organisations.
(6)  The  Grants  sanctioning  authorities
should  not  only  take  into  account  the
generated  resources  while
regulating the award of Grants but should
consider  laying  down  targets  for  internal
resources  generation  by  the  Grantee
Institutions  or  Organisations  every
financial  year,  particularly  where  Grants
are given on recurring basis every year.
(7)  Unspent  Balances:  When  recurring
Grants-in-aid are sanctioned to the same
Institution  or  Organisation  for  the  same
purpose,  the  unspent  balance  of  the
previous  Grant  should  be  taken  into
account  in  sanctioning  the  subsequent
Grant.  For  this  purpose,  the  Programme
Division  of  Ministries/Department  shall
take help of PFMS Portal to know the bank
balance  of  the  recipients  before  making
each  release.  The
Department of Expenditure regarding the
use  of  PFMS  Portal  for  Central  Sector
Schemes issued from time to time shall be
followed  by  all  Ministries/
Departments. The principles of ‘just in time
release’, should be applied for releases in
respect  of  all  payments  to  the  extent
possible.   The following broad principles
shall be adhered to:
(i) Cash  balance  at  a
preferably not be more than 3 months
(ii) Funds  should  be  released  as  per
actual requirements and that sanction
may  precede  the  release  of  funds,
though  its  validity  may  be  limited  to
that financial year.
(8) All interests or other earnings against
Grants  in  aid  or  advances  (other  than
reimbursement)  released  to  any  Grantee
institution should be mandatorily remitted
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
the  Consolidated  Fund  of
accounts.   Such advances should not be
allowed  to  be  adjusted  against  future
(9) In making Grants to Non-Government
Organisations, a condition should be laid
down  that  assets  acquired  wholly  or
substantially  out  of  Government  Grants,
except  those  declared  as  obsolete  and
u n s e r v i c e a b l e   o r   c o n d e m n e d
accordance with the procedure laid down
in the General Financial Rules, shall not be
disposed  of  without  obtaining  the  prior
approval of the authority which sanctioned
(10)  The  sanctioning  authority  may
prescribe  conditions  regarding  quantum
and  periodicity  for  release  of  Grants-in-
aid in instalments in consultation with the
Financial Adviser. However, the release of
the  last  instalment  of  the  Annual  Grant
must  be  conditional  upon  the  Grantee
Institutions providing reasonable evidence
of  proper  utilization  of
released  earlier.  In  the  cases  where
Central  Financial  Assistance  (CFA)  has
the  grant  will  be
released  in  one  instalment  upon  the
providing complete evidence of achieving
the  specified  objectives  and  expenditure
incurred supported by Audited Statement
of Expenditure. In these cases, the grantee
institutions will not be required to submit
(11)  In  order  to  finalize  the  Budgetary
Estimates of Grants in aid to the Grantee
Institutions,  the  Ministry  or  Department
Organisation  desiring  Grants
Government, to submit their requirement
with  supporting  details  by  the  end  of
September in the year preceding the year
for which the Grants-in-aid is sought. The
Ministry  or  Department  should  finalize
their examination of the requests with the
utmost expedition and make the necessary
Budget  provision  where  it  is  decided  to
sanction  Grants.  The
Organisation  should  be  informed  of  the
result  of  their  requests  by  April  of  the
(i) A l l   G r a n t e e
I n s t i t u t i o n s   o r
Organisations  which  receive  more
than  fifty  per  cent.  of  their  recurring
expenditure in the form of Grants-in-
aid, should ordinarily formulate terms
and  conditions  of  service  of  their
employees  which  are,  by  and  large,
not  higher  than  those  applicable  to
similar  categories  of  employees  in
Central  Government.  In  exceptional
cases  relaxation  may  be  made  in
the  Ministry  of
(ii)  Grantee  Institutions  or  Organisations
should  be  encouraged
advantage of the pension or gratuity
schemes or Group Insurance Schemes
or  house  buildings  loans  or  vehicle
loans  schemes  etc.  available  in  the
market  for  employees  instead  of
undertaking  liability  on  their  own  or
(13)  The  sanctioning  authority,  while
laying down the pattern of assistance, may
decide whether the ownership of buildings
constructed  with  Grants-in-aid  may  vest
with Government or the Grantee Institution
or Organisation. Where the ownership is
vested  in  the  Government,  the  Grantee
Institution or Organisation may be allowed
to occupy the building as a lessee. In such
cases suitable record of details of location,
cost,  name  of  lessee  and  terms  and
conditions of lease must be maintained in
the  records  of  the  granting  Ministry  or
Department.  In  all  cases  of  buildings
c o n s t r u c t e d   w i t h   G r a n t s - i n - a i d ,
responsibility  of  maintenance  of  such
buildings shall be of the Grantee Institution
(14)  Any  other  special
conditions or procedures for transaction of
business as Government may desire to be
followed  by  the  Grantee  Institution  or
Organisation, shall be got incorporated in
the  Articles  of  Association  or  bye-laws  of
the Institution or Organisation concerned
before release of Grants-in-aid.
(15) Grants-in-aid may be sanctioned to
meet  the  bonafide  expenditure  incurred
not earlier than two years prior to the date
of issue of the sanction.
(16)  The stipulation in regard to refund of
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
the unutilised amount of Grant-in-aid with
interest  thereon  should  be  brought  out
clearly in the letter sanctioning the Grant
as well as in the bond so required to be
(17) (i)  As a precondition to the sanction
of  Grants-in-aid  to  the  agencies
the recipient body employs more
than twenty persons on a regular
basis and at least fifty per cent of
its  recurring  expenditure  is  met
from  Grants-in-aid  from  Central
(b)  the body is a registered society or
a co-operative institution and is in
receipt  of  a  general  purpose
annual  Grants-in-aid  of  Rupees
twenty lakhs and above from the
Consolidated Fund of India;
the  Grant  sanctioning  authority
should ensure that a suitable clause is
invariably  included  in  the  terms  and
conditions under which the Grants-in-
aid  are  given,
reservation for Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes or OBC in posts and
services under such organizations or
agencies. The relative provision may
be on the following lines :-
( N a m e   o f
Institution  or  Organization  etc.)
Scheduled  Castes  and  Scheduled
Tribes or OBC in the posts or services
under its control on the lines indicated
by the Government of India”.
to  make  reservations
(ii) While  sanctioning  Grants-in-aid  to
Institutions or Organisations referred
to in (a) above, the Grant sanctioning
authority  should  keep  in  view  the
progress made by such Institutions or
O r g a n i s a t i o n s
i n   e m p l o y i n g
Scheduled  Castes  and  Scheduled
Tribes  or  OBC  candidates  in  their
(1)  Grants-in-aid  to  “ Voluntary
Organisations” Subject to the following
terms  and  conditions,  Grants-in-aid
towards  administrative  expenditure  may
be sanctioned to voluntary organizations
to ensure a certain minimum staff structure
and qualified personnel to improve their
effectiveness  and  expand  their  activities
under the following conditions :-
(i) The  Grants-in-aid  should  not  exceed
twenty-five  per  cent.  of  approved
administrative expenditure on pay and
allowances  of  the  personnel  of  the
voluntary organisation concerned;
(ii) Grants-in-aid  to  meet  administrative
expenditure to any private institutions
other than the voluntary organizations
should not ordinarily be sanctioned. In
exceptional cases such Grants can be
considered for sanction in consultation
with Internal Finance Wing.
(2)  Before  a  Grant  is  released,  the
members  of  the  Executive  Committee  of
the  Grantee  should  be  asked  to  Execute
Bonds  in  a  prescribed  format  binding
themselves jointly and severally to:-
(i) abide by the conditions of the Grants-
in-aid  by  the  target  dates,  if  any,
specified therein; and
(ii) not  to  divert  the  Grants  or  entrust
execution  of  the  scheme  or  work
concerned to another Institution(s) or
(iii) abide  by  any  other  conditions
specified in the agreement governing
(iv) In the event of the Grantee failing to
the  conditions  or
committing breach of the conditions of
the Bond, the signatories to the Bond
shall be jointly and severally liable to
refund  to  the  President  of  India,  the
whole or a part amount of the Grant
with  interest  at  ten  per  cent.  per
annum  thereon  or  the  sum  specified
under  the  Bond.  The  stamp  duty  for
this  Bond  shall  be  borne  by  the
(3)  Execution  of  Bond  will  not  apply  to
Q u a s i - G o v e r n m e n t
I n s t i t u t i o n s ,
Central  Autonomous  Organisations  and
Institutions  whose  budget  is  approved  by
Rule 232 General  Principles  for  award  of
Grants-in-aid for Centrally Sponsored
Schemes. The following principles should
be kept in view by Ministries/Departments
of the Central Government at the time of
designing  Centrally  Sponsored  Schemes
for implementation in State Governments
or  Union  Territories  and  approving  and
releasing assistance to State Governments
or Union Territories for such schemes: -
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
(i) Every  Centrally  Sponsored  Scheme
s h o u l d   h a v e   a
t i m e - b o u n d
q u a n t i f i a b l e   a n d   m e a s u r a b l e
outcome  targets  with  provisions  for
periodic  monitoring,  mid-term
evaluation  and  detailed
(ii) The  scheme  should  be  designed  in
consultation  with  States  and  Union
Territories. States should be delegated
details  of  the  schemes  to  suit  local
conditions,  subject  to  reporting  such
changes to the concerned Ministry or
(iii) Where schemes are in operation with
similar objectives targeting the same
population,  the  schemes  should  be
(iv) To  ensure  monitoring  and  effective
control  over  such  schemes,
number  of  schemes  should  be
restricted,  so  that  the  gain  from  the
expenditure  on  such  schemes
maximized.  The  role  of  the  Central
Ministries  or  Departments  should  be
c o o r d i n a t i o n   a n d   d e t a i l e d
(v) The  release  of
Governments and monitoring further
utilisation  should  be  undertaken
through  PFMS.  The  Ministries  or
Departments  should  establish  a
mechanism  to  ensure  that  the  funds
earlier released have been effectively
utilised  and  that  the  data  and  facts
reported by the State Governments or
Union  Territories  relating  to  physical
financial  performance  are
correct.  Before  releasing
funds, it should also be ensured that
the  State  Governments  or  Union
Territories have the capacity to actually
spend the balance from the previous
years  and  the  releases  during  the
(vi) The Ministries or Departments should
focus  attention  on  the  attainment  of
the objectives and not on expenditure
only.  A  mechanism
release of large part of funds towards
the end of the year should be devised
and  incorporated  in  the  Scheme
(vii) A  concurrent  monitoring  and
evaluation mechanism should be built
into the Scheme. A periodic review of
every  Centrally  Sponsored  Scheme
should be undertaken for any required
mid-course  correction  or  changes  in
the scheme design
(viii)A  post-completion  review  of  every
Centrally  Sponsored  Scheme  should
b e   u n d e r t a k e n   b y
t h e   S t a t e
Government(s)  or  Union  Territories
t h e   s c h e m e ,
i m p l e m e n t i n g
time  and  cost
overruns,  if  any,  and  suggestions  for
formulating and implementing future
schemes. A copy of the review should
be obtained by the Ministry concerned
and  kept  in  view  while  formulating
new Centrally Sponsored Schemes.
Funding  of  Sponsored  Projects  or
(i) Ministries  or  Departments  of
Government  sponsor  projects  or
to  be  undertaken  by
Technology  and  other  similar
Autonomous  Organisations  such  as
ICAR, CSIR, ICMR etc., the results from
which are expected to be in national
expenditure  on  such  projects  or
i n c l u d i n g   c a p i t a l
s c h e m e s
expenditure, is funded by the Ministry
or Department. The funds released for
such  projects  or  schemes  in  one  or
more  installments  are  not  treated  as
Grants-in-aid  in  the  books  of  the
implementing agency. Apart from the
requirement  of  submission  of
technical  and  financial  reports  on
completion of the project or scheme, a
stipulation  should  be  made  in  such
cases  that  the  ownership  in  the
created or acquired out of such funds
shall  vest  in  the  sponsor.  While  the
Project  or  Scheme  is  ongoing,  the
recipients should not treat such assets
as  their  own  assets  in  their  Books  of
Accounts  but  should  disclose  their
holding and using such assists in the
Notes to Accounts specifically.
(ii) On  completion  of  the  Projects  or
Schemes and the receipt of technical
and  financial  reports,  the  Ministries/
Departments  should  decide  and
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
communicate  to  the  implementing
agencies whether the assets should be
returned, sold or retained by them.
(iii) If  the  assets  are  to  be  sold,  the
therefrom  should  be
s p o n s o r i n g   D e p a r t m e n t /
the  assets  are
to  be  retained  by
I n s t i t u t i o n / O r g a n i s a t i o n ,
t h e
implementing agency should include
the  assets  at  the  book  value  in  their
the  account  of
Register of Grants. A Register of Grants
shall  be  maintained  by  the  sanctioning
Form GFR - 21.
(i) Columns  (i)  to  (v)  of  the  Register  in
format  at  Form  GFR  -  21  should  be
filled in simultaneously with the issue
of the order sanctioning each Grant.
These columns should be attested by
any  Gazetted  Officer  nominated  for
the  purpose  by
authority.  The  serial  number  should
be  recorded  on  the  body  of  the
sanction at the time the item is entered
in the Register as under :   “Noted at
Serial No ………………in the Register
(ii) Such a record will guard against the
possibility  of  double  payment.
Columns (vi) and (vii) should be filled
in  and  attested  by  the  Gazetted
Officer concerned as soon as the bill is
ready.  The  bill  should
submitted  to  the  Gazetted  Officer
nominated  to  act  as  Drawing  and
Disbursing Officer with the register for
signing the bill and to the sanctioning
authority  for  giving  dated  initials  in
column (viii) of Register. It should also
authority to verify that the conditions,
if  any,  attached  to  the  Grant  have
been  duly  accepted  by  the  Grantee
without  any  reservation  and  that  no
other  bill  for  the  same  purpose  has
already  been  paid  before.  No  bill
should  be  signed  unless  it  has  been
noted in the Register of Grants against
the  relevant  sanction.  This  will  also
facilitate  watching  of  payments  in
instalments, if any, in the case of lump
the  duty  of
(iii) Information  at  column  (xiii)  of  the
Form GFR-21 above should be used
also  for  regulating  the  subsequent
Rule 235 Accounts  of  Grantee  Institutions.
Institutions  or  Organisations  receiving
Grants should, irrespective of the amount
involved,  be  required
subsidiary  accounts  of  the  Government
grant and furnish to the Accounts Officer a
set of audited statement of accounts. These
audited statements of accounts should be
required to be furnished after utilization of
the Grants-in-aid or whenever called for.
(1)   Audit of Accounts. The accounts of
all  Grantee  Institutions  or  Organisations
shall  be  open  to  inspection  by  the
sanctioning  authority  and  audit,  both  by
the  Comptroller  and  Auditor  General  of
India under the provision of CAG(DPC) Act
1971  and  internal  audit  by  the  Principal
Accounts  Office  of
the  Ministry  or
Department,  whenever  the  Institution  or
Organisation is called upon to do so and a
provision to this effect should invariably be
incorporated  in  all  orders  sanctioning
(i)  The accounts of the Grantee Institution
or  Organisation  shall  be  audited  by
the Comptroller and Auditor General
of  India  under  Section  14  of  the
Comptroller  and  Auditor  General  of
India (Duties, Powers and Conditions
of Service) Act, 1971, if the Grants or
loans  to  the  institution  in  a  financial
year are not less than Rupees twenty-
five  lakhs  and  also  not  less  than
seventy-five  percent  of
expenditure  of  the  Institution.  The
accounts may also be audited by the
Comptroller  and  Auditor  General  of
India  if  the  Grants  or  loans  in  a
financial year are not less than Rupees
one crore. Where the accounts are so
the  Comptroller  and
Auditor General of India in a financial
year,  he  shall  continue  to  audit  the
accounts  for  a  further  period  of  two
conditions  outlined  above  are  not
(ii) Where any Grant and /or loan is given
for  any  specific  purpose
Institution  or  Organisation  or
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
authority, not being a foreign State or
international Body/Organization, the
Comptroller  and  Auditor  General  is
competent under Section 15 (1) of the
CAG’s (DPC) Act, 1971, to scrutinize
the  procedures  by  which
sanctioning authority satisfies itself as
to  the  fulfillment  of  the  conditions
subject to which such Grants and/or
loans  were  given  and  shall,  for  this
purpose,  have  right  of  access  to  the
books and accounts of that Institute or
Organisation or authority.
(3)    In  all  other  cases,  the  Institution  or
Organisation shall get its accounts audited
from  Chartered  Accountants  of  its  own
(4)   Where the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India is the sole auditor for a
local Body or Institution, auditing charges
will be payable by the auditee Institution in
full  unless  specifically  waived  by
Time  Schedule  for  submission  of
annual  accounts.  The  dates  prescribed
for submission of the annual accounts for
Audit  leading  to  the  issue  of  Audit
Certificate by the Comptroller and Auditor
General  of  India  and  for  submission  of
annual report and audited accounts to the
nodal Ministry for timely submission to the
Parliament are listed below:-
(I)  Approved  and  authenticated  annual
accounts to be made available by the
Autonomous  Body  to  the  concerned
Audit  Office  and  commencement  of
audit of annual accounts-30th June
Issue of the final SAR in English version
with  audit  certificate  to  Autonomous
Body/  Government  concerned
(iii) Submission of the Annual Report and
Audited Accounts to the Nodal for it to
be laid on the Table of the Parliament
Rule  238  (1)  Utilization  Certificates.  In  respect  of
non-recurring  Grants  to  an  Institution  or
Organisation,  a  certificate  of  actual
utilization  of  the  Grants  received  for  the
purpose  for  which  it  was  sanctioned  in
Form GFR 12-A, should be insisted upon
in the order sanctioning the Grants-in-aid.
The  Utilization  Certificate  in  respect  of
Grants referred to in Rule230 (10) should
also  disclose  whether
quantified  and  qualitative  targets  that
should  have  been  reached  against  the
amount utilised, were in fact reached, and
if  not,  the  reasons  therefor.  They  should
contain  an  output  based  performance
performance  assessment.  The  Utilization
Certificate  should  be  submitted  within
twelve  months  of  the  closure  of  the
financial  year  by
Organisation  concerned.  Receipt  of  such
certificate  shall  be  scrutinised  by  the
Ministry or Department concerned. Where
such  certificate  is  not  received  from  the
Grantee  within  the  prescribed  time,  the
Ministry or Department will be at liberty to
blacklist  such  Institution  or  Organisation
from any future grant, subsidy or other type
of financial support from the Government.
(2) In respect of recurring Grants, Ministry
or Department concerned should release
any amount sanctioned for the subsequent
financial  year  only  after  Utilization
in  respect  of  Grants  of
preceding  financial  year  is  submitted.
Release  of  Grants-in-aid  in  excess  of
seventy  five  per  cent  of  the  total  amount
sanctioned  for  the  subsequent  financial
year  shall  be  done  only  after  utilisation
the  annual  audited
the  preceding  year  are
the  satisfaction  of  the
Ministry/Department  concerned.  Reports
submitted by the Internal Audit parties of
the Ministry or Department and Inspection
Reports  received  from  Indian  Audit  and
A c c o u n t s   D e p a r t m e n t   a n d   t h e
performance reports if any received for the
third and fourth quarter in the year should
also  be  looked  into  while  sanctioning
(3)  Utilization  certificates  need  not  be
furnished  in  cases  where  the  Grants  -in
–aid  /  CFA  are  being  made  as
reimbursement  of  expenditure  already
incurred  on  the  basis  of  duly  audited
accounts. In such cases the sanction letters
should  specify  clearly  that  the  Utilization
Certificates will not be necessary.
(4)  In  respect  of  Central  Autonomous
Organisations,  the  Utilization  Certificate
shall  disclose  separately
expenditure incurred and the funds given
to  suppliers  of  stores  and  assets,  to
construction agencies, to staff for (House
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
forward  shall  be
Building  and  Purchase  of  conveyance)
which do not constitute expenditure at that
stage but have been met out of Grants and
are pending adjustments. These shall be
treated  as  unutilized  Grants  allowed
to be carried forward. While recording the
Grants in the subsequent year the amount
(5)  In  the  case  of  Private  and  Voluntary
Organizations receiving recurring Grants-
in-aid from Rupees ten lakhs to less than
Rupees  fifty  lakhs,  all  the  Ministries  or
Departments  of  Government  of  India
should  include  in  their  Annual  Report  a
statement showing the quantum of funds
provided  to  each  of  those  organizations
and  the  purpose  for  which  they  were
utilized, for the information of Parliament.
The  Annual  Reports  and  accounts  of
Private  and  Voluntary  Organizations
receiving  recurring  Grants-in-aid  to  the
tune  of  Rupees  fifty  lakhs  and  above
should be laid on the Table of the House
within  nine  months  of  the  close  of  the
succeeding financial year of the Grantee
(6) In the case of organizations receiving
one-time  assistance  or  non  recurring
Grants as Grants-in-aid from Rupees ten
lakhs to Rupees fifty lakhs, all Ministries or
Departments  of  Government  of  India
should  include  in  their  Annual  Reports,
statements showing the quantum of funds
provided  to  each  of  these  organizations
and the purpose for which the funds were
utilized, for the information of Parliament.
The Annual Reports and Audited Accounts
of Private and Voluntary Organizations or
societies registered under the Registration
of Societies Act, 1860, receiving one-time
assistance/non-recurring  Grants  of
Rupees fifty lakhs and above should also
be laid on the Table of the House, within
nine months of the close of the succeeding
f i n a n c i a l   y e a r   o f
t h e   g r a n t e e
State Government to submit Utilization
Certificate  for  Grants-in-aid  relating
to Scheme. When  Central  Grants  are
implementation  of  Central  Scheme,
Utilization Certificate in format GFR 12-C
may  be  submitted  by
Government in respect of the Scheme. The
to  State  Governments
UC  should  be  counter-signed  by  the
Administrative  Secretary  of  the  Division
regulating the Scheme/Finance Secretary.
State Government to submit Utilization
Certificate when expenditure incurred
through  local  bodies.  When  Central
Grants are given to State Governments for
expenditure  to  be  incurred  by  them
through local bodies or private institutions,
the  Utilization  Certificates  should  be
the  State  Government
Rule 241  Utilisation Certificate in case of Direct
Benefit Transfer (DBT) Scheme. In case
of  the  schemes  covered  under  Direct
Benefit  Transfers  (DBT),  where  the  fund
Government  to  the  beneficiaries,  the
Payments  Corporation  of  India  (Aadhaar
Payment Bridge) regarding deposit of the
funds in the beneficiaries’ bank accounts,
generated as per procedure prescribed by
the  Controller  General  of  Accounts,  may
be treated as a Utilization Certificate.  The
Ministry/Department  releasing  the  Grant
should keep proper record and accounts
relating to such direct releases under DBT
to the beneficiaries bank accounts.
Rule 242   ( 1 )   Pe r f o r m a n c e   p a r a m e t e r s .
Performance parameters should be clearly
set  to  allow  better  oversight  of  the
(2)  Submission  of  Achievement-cum-
i .   T h e   G r a n t e e
I n s t i t u t i o n s   o r
Organisations  should  be  required  to
s u b m i t   p e r f o r m a n c e   c u m
achievement  reports  soon  after  the
end of the financial year, and in any
case,  not  later  than  six  months  after
the close of the financial year.
In  regard  to  non-recurring  Grants
such as those meant for celebration of
anniversaries, conduct of special tours
and  maintenance  Grants  for
e d u c a t i o n ,   p e r f o r m a n c e - c u m -
achievement  reports  need  not  be
In  the  case  of  recurring  Grants,
submission  of  achievement-cum-
performance  reports  should  usually
be insisted upon in all cases. However,
in  the  case  of  Grants-in-aid  not
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
exceeding  Rupees  twenty  five  lakhs,
the  sanctioning  authority  may
the  submission  of
performance - cum-achievement
reports and should, in that event, refer
to  the  Utilization  Certificates  and
other information available with it to
decide whether or not the Grants-in-
aid should continue to be given.
(a)  The  Annual  Reports  and  Audited
Statements  of  Accounts  of
Autonomous  Organisations  are
required to be laid on the table of
the Parliament. In such cases, the
Ministries  or  Departments  of
Central  Government  need  not
In all other cases, if the Grants-in-
aid exceed Rupees ten lakhs but
less  than  rupees  fifty  lakhs,  the
Ministry  or  Departments  of  the
Central  Government  should
include  a  statement
Annual  Report  of
assessment  of  the  achievements
or performance of the Institution
(c)  In cases where the Grants-in-aid
are for Rupees fifty lakhs or more,
the Ministry or Departments of the
Central  Government  should
include  in  their  Annual  Report  a
review  of  the  utilization  of  the
t h e
s p e c i f y i n g
i n   d e t a i l
amount  spent,  the  purpose  and
destination of Grants.
v. Where  the  accounts  of  the  Grantee
Institutions  or  Organisations  are
audited by the CAG of India copies of
reports,  furnished  by  the  grantee
Ministry  or  sanctioning  authority
should be made available to audit. In
other  cases  copies  of  such  reports,
received  by  the  Departments  of  the
C e n t r a l   G o v e r n m e n t   o r
t h e
sanctioning authority should be made
available to audit when local audit of
s u c h   G r a n t s - i n - a i d
t h e
Administrative Ministry or Department
for  Discretionary  Grants
or sanctioning authority is conducted
or  when  it  is  called  for  by  the
Rule 243 Discretionary  Grants.  When  an
placed  at  the  disposal  of  a  particular
Grants  shall  be  regulated  by  general  or
special orders of the competent authority
specifying the object for which the Grants
can  be  made  and  any  other  condition(s)
that  shall  apply
Discretionary  Grants  must  be  non-
recurring  and  not  involve  any  future
Rule 244  Other Grants. Grants, subventions, etc.,
including Grants to States other than those
dealt with in the foregoing rules, shall be
m a d e   u n d e r   s p e c i a l   o r d e r s   o f
(i)  Regulation of recurring Grants-in-aid
for Government employees’ welfare :–
for  provision  of
amenities or of recreational or welfare
facilities to the staff of the offices of the
Government  are  regulated  under
orders of the Ministry of Home Affairs
admissibility  of  the  Grants-in-aid  for
the  welfare  of  the  employees  of  the
Government  should  be  regulated  in
the following manner :-
The Grant in aid will be admissible on
the basis of the total strength borne on
t h e   r e g u l a r   s t r e n g t h   o f   a n
i.e.,  Ministry  or
Department, etc., and its Attached and
Subordinate  Offices  and  such
statutory bodies whose budget forms
part  of  Consolidated  Fund  of  India,
irrespective  of  the  fact  whether  any
individual  is  a  member  of  the  staff
club, etc., or not. However, Grant-in-
aid in respect of Gazetted Officers will
be admissible only to that Ministry or
D e p a r t m e n t   o r   O f f i c e   w h e r e
membership of recreation club is open
to such officers.
Staff  paid  from  contingencies,  work-
charged  staff  etc.,  will  not  be  taken
into calculation for this purpose. Staff
eligible  for  similar  concession  under
some other rule or statutory provision,
e.g., industrial workers will also not be
covered by these orders.
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
ii) Amounts of Grants-in-aid. (a) The rate
of the Grant-in-aid will be Rupees fifty
per  head  per  annum.  In  addition  to
this, an additional Grant-in-aid up to
Rupees  twenty-five  per  head  per
annum  to  match  the  subscriptions
collected during the previous financial
year by the existing staff clubs will be
admissible. In the case of staff clubs
which are started during the financial
year  in  which  Grant-in-aid  is  to  be
given, an additional matching grants-
in-aid  up  to  Rupees  twenty-five  per
head  per  annum,  to  match  the
subscription collected by such clubs up
to the date on which the proposal for
is  mooted,  may  be
sanctioned.  The  total  strength  of  the
eligible staff will be that existing on the
thirty-first  March  of
financial year or that on the date on
which proposal for Grant is mooted in
the  case  of  new  staff  clubs  above
rates, as revised from time to time will
iii) An  illustrative  list  of  items  on  which
expenditure  can  be  incurred  out  of
G r a n t s - i n - a i d   s a n c t i o n e d   b y
for  provision  of
amenities is given below:
i) Articles  of sports –  Outdoor and
indoor games equipment
ii) Cost of uniforms, etc., supplied to
teams of players.
iii) Magazines and periodicals.
iv) Entry fee for tournaments
v) Hiring of playgrounds
vi) Hiring  and  repair  for  furniture,
vii) Purchase of furniture.
viii) Conveyance  expenses  incurred
xi) Film shows.
xii) Hiring  of  accommodation  for
xiii) Cultural,  Sports  and  Physical
xiv) Inter-Ministerial meets.
2.  A maximum one time Grant of Rupees
fifty thousand may be sanctioned for
setting up of a Recreation Club.
the  Ministry  or
D e p a r t m e n t s   o f
t h e   C e n t r a l
Government  and  their  Attached  and
Subordinate Offices will be allocated
the  concerned  Ministry  or
Department  on  receipt  of  formal
requests in the prescribed manner. For
the  purposes  of  these  Grants-in-aid,
the  Departments  of
Government  and  their  attached  and
Subordinate Offices will be treated as
a single unit. It will be the responsibility
of  that  Ministry  or  Department  to
distribute  the  amount  further  to  its
Attached and Subordinate Offices and
to their different clubs. The accounts of
these clubs for the preceding year duly
audited by an Internal Auditor should
be  obtained  immediately  after  the
close of the financial year in any case
by the thirtieth April by the Ministry or
Department  before  allocating  funds
for the next financial year.
4. Grants-in-aid  for  the  provision  of
amenities  or  recreational  or  welfare
facilities to the staff of the Indian Audit
and  Accounts  Department  are
regulated by separate orders
Rule 246  The rules in this Section shall be observed
by  all  authorities  competent  to  sanction
loans  of  public  moneys
Governments,  Local  Administrations  of
Union  Territories,  local  bodies,  foreign
Government on specific recommendation
of  State  Government,  Government
institutions and other Government bodies.
(1)Powers and Procedure for sanction
The  powers  of  Departments
the  Central  Government  and
Administrators  as  well  as  other
subordinate  authorities  to  sanction  loans
are  given  in  the  Delegation  of  Financial
Powers  Rules  and  other  general  and
special orders issued under that rule.
(2)  Nodal  Division  in  Ministry  of
F i n a n c e .   T h e   B u d g e t   D i v i s i o n ,
Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry
of Finance shall be the nodal division in the
Ministry  of  Finance  to  finalise  terms  and
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
their  powers  under
All  sanctions  of
issued  by  a
Department of Central Government or an
Administrator of Union Territory in exercise
provision  of  Delegation  of  Financial
Powers Rules shall include a certificate to
the effect that the same is in accordance
with the rules or principles prescribed by
the Ministry of Finance and that the rate of
interest  on  the  loan  and  the  period  of
repayment  thereof  have  been  fixed  with
the approval of that Ministry.
(1) All sanctions to loans shall be subject to
the Delegation of Financial Powers Rules
and shall specify the terms and conditions
relating to them including the terms and
their  repayment  and
payment of interest.
(2) Borrowers shall be required to adhere
strictly  to  the  terms  settled  for  the  loans
made  to  them.  Modifications  of  these
terms can be made subsequently only for
very  special  reasons  and  after  seeking
prior concurrence of Ministry of Finance.
(1)  General  conditions  for  regulating
all loans : All loans shall be regulated by
the following general conditions :-
(i) A  specific  term  shall  be  fixed  which
shall  be  as  short  as  possible,  within
which each loan has to be fully repaid
with  interest  due.  The  terms  may,  in
very  special  cases,  extend  to  thirty
(ii) The term is to be calculated from the
date on which the loan is completely
drawn  or  declared  by  competent
authority to be closed.
(iii) The  repayment  of  loans  shall  be
effected  by  instalments,  which  shall
ordinarily  be  fixed  on  annual  basis,
and with due dates of payment being
(iv) Any  instalment  paid  before  its  due
date  may  be  taken  entirely  towards
the  principal,  provided
accompanied  by  payment  toward
interest  due  up-to-date  of  actual
payment  of  instalment;  if  not,  the
amount of the instalment shall first be
adjusted towards the interest due for
preceding  and  current  periods  and
the  balance,  if  any,  shall  alone  be
applied  towards  the  principal.  If,
instalment  is  in  advance  of  the  due
the  payment  of
date by fourteen days or less, interest
for  the  full  period  (half-year  or  full
year,  as  the  case  may  be)  shall  be
(v) When  the  due  date  of  repayment  of
any instalment of principal or interest
falls on a Sunday or a public holiday,
the  payment  made  on
working day following the Sunday or
the public holiday, shall be regarded
as payment on the due date and no
interest shall be charged for the day or
days  by  which  the  recovery  is  so
Exception.  If  an
principal or interest is payable on the
thirty-first March of a year, and if that
day happens to be a public holiday the
recoveries  shall  be  made  on  the
immediately  preceding  working  day.
the  due  date  for  the
repayment  of  a  loan  or  payment  of
interest falls on a holiday observed by
the Reserve Bank of India, at which the
effective credit of the same is to take
place this shall be shifted to the next
working  day,  except  when  the  due
date is thirty-first March.
(vi) The  payment  of  interest  and  the
repayment of principal of a loan are
always to be made with reference to
the calendar date on which the loan in
question  is  paid.  However,  where
payment of instalment is in advance of
the due date by fourteen days or less,
interest  for  the  full  year  or  half  year
(depending on the prescribed mode of
recovery) shall be charged thereon. In
the case of a loan sanctioned by the
to  a  State
Government  on  or  before  thirty-first
March of a year, which is adjusted in
the books of the Reserve Bank of India
in  the  month  of  April  but  in  the
accounts  of  the  previous  year  the
instalment of principal and/or interest
shall fall due for payment on the thirty-
first March of the succeeding year and
calendar  date  in  April  on  which  the
inter-Governmental  adjustment  was
the  anniversaries  of
(vii) The date of drawal of a loan by a State
Government  shall  be  determined  as
indicated below –
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(a) When  monetary  settlement
involved-Normally  the  calendar
date on which amount of a loan is
actually credited to the account of
the  State  Government  by  the
Reserve  Bank  is  to  be  treated  as
the date of its drawal.
This  position  shall  also  hold  in
cases  where  adjustment
accounts  is  made  in  one  month
but  date  of  adjustment  in  the
books of the Reserve Bank of India
falls  in  the  following  calendar
month.  The  calendar  date  on
afforded to the State Government
in the books of the Reserve Bank
of  India  in  such  cases  shall  be
treated as the date of its drawal.
Exception.  An  exception  to  this
arrangement  is  in  the  case  of
loans for which credit is afforded
to the recipient State Government
in  the  month  of  April  by  the
Reserve  Bank  of  India  but  in  the
accounts of previous year. In such
cases, a loan shall be deemed to
have been paid on the thirty-first
March of the financial year in the
accounts for which the payment is
adjusted. Consequently, payment
interest  as  also
principal in respect of such loans
shall  fall  due  on  the  thirty-first
March  of  the  succeeding  years
and  not  on  the  anniversaries  of
the  calendar  date  in  April  on
w h i c h
i n t e r- G o v e r n m e n t a l
adjustment  on  account  of  such
loans was carried out in the books
of the Reserve Bank of India.
(b) Where no monetary settlement is
where adjustment in the books of
the  Accounts  Offices  are  only
involved and actual credit through
the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  is  not
necessary,  the  last  date  of  the
month  of  account  in  which  the
adjustment  is  effected  shall  be
taken  as  the  date  of  drawal  of
loan  for  purposes  of  repayment
and charging interest.
(viii)In  order  to  avoid  any  default  in  the
Accounts Officers or Pay and Accounts
Officers  who  maintain  the  detailed
accounts of loans, shall issue notices in
Form  GFR-19  to  the  loanees  (other
than  State  and  Union  Territory
i.e.  Public  Sector
Undertakings,  statutory  bodies  and
Government  institutions  etc.,  say,  a
month in advance of the due date for
the repayment of any instalment of the
principal  and/  or  interest  thereon.
However, omission to give notice does
not  give  the  loanees  any  claim  to
exemption from the consequences of
default  in  the  repayment  of  the
principal and/or interest thereon.
(2)  Before  sanctioning  a  loan  to  private
lending  Ministry  or
Department  shall  examine  the  financial
health  and  managerial  ability  of  such
(3) (i) Before  considering  a  loan
application  from  parties  other  than
State  Governments  and  Local
Administrations  of  Union  Territories,
the  following  requirements  shall  be
it  shall  be  seen  that  there  is
adequate budget provision;
it shall be seen whether the grant
of the loan is in accordance with
approved Government policy and
accepted patterns of assistance.
(ii) Before  approving
applicant shall be asked to furnish the
following materials and information:-
(a) copies  of  profit  and  loss  (or
i n c o m e   a n d   e x p e n d i t u r e )
accounts  and  balance  sheets  for
the last 3 years;
the  main  sources  of  income  and
how  the  loan  is  proposed  to  be
the  security  proposed
offered for the loan together with a
valuation of the security offered by
an  independent  authority  and  a
certificate  to  the  effect  that  the
asset  offered  as  security  is  not
(d) Details of loan or loans taken from
the Central Government or a State
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
G o v e r n m e n t
t h e   p a s t ,
indicating amount, purpose, rate
of  interest,  stipulated  period  of
repayment, date of original loan
and amount outstanding against
the  loan(s)  on  the  date  of  the
application and the assets, if any,
given as security;
(e) a complete list of all other loans,
the  date  of
application  and  the  assets  given
as security against them;
the purpose for which the loan is
proposed  to  be  utilized  and  the
economics of the scheme.
NOTE. Where the loan is to be given to
Government institution on the strength of a
guarantee given by the trust managing it,
similar information should be called for in
respect of the trust also.
(iii) On  receipt  of  the  information  called
for  as  mentioned
confidential enquiries shall be made
from  the  other  Departments  of  the
Central  Government  or  State
Governments  from  which  the  party
performance in regard to the previous
loans.  If  the  replies  indicate  that  the
performance was not satisfactory, the
loan  shall  be  refused.  It  must  be
analysed that the financial position of
the  party  is  sound.  It  shall  also  be
ensured  that  the  security  offered  is
adequate  and  its  value  is  at  least
thirty-three  and  one-third  per  cent.
above  the  amount  of  the  loan.  If
possible, an independent valuation of
the security offered shall be obtained.
The applicant for the loan must satisfy
soundness  and  adequacy  of  security
before a loan is sanctioned.
(iv) In the case of Institutions which receive
Grants-in-aid  from  Government  to
meet  a  part  of  their  deficits  and  the
is  met  by
Government  and  the  Trustees  of
Management, it shall be ensured–
that  in  computing  the  deficit  for
purpose of the Grant-in-aid, the
income from the scheme, if any,
earmarked for servicing the loan
and the instalment of repayment
of the loan and interest (if any) is
that as far as possible, the scheme
for which the loan is given is self-
financing and does not throw an
additional burden on the general
income of the institutions, e.g., in
the  case  of  hostels  for  colleges
the  rents  proposed  are
Institution  produces  an
Government or the Management
that  any  shortfall
interest shall be made good by it.
In  the  latter  case  the  financial
(Trust)  shall  be  investigated  after
calling  for  information  on  the
lines of Rule 250. (3) (i) above.
(v) Ministries  or  Departments  of
Central Government shall lay down a
procedure for periodical review of the
old loans so that prompt action can be
taken,  if  necessary,  for  enforcing
(4) The detailed procedure to be followed
in  connection  with  the  Grant  of  loans  to
local  bodies  shall  be  regulated  by  the
provisions  of  the  Local  Authorities  Loans
Act  and  other  special  Acts  and  by  rules
(1) Interest on Loans.
Interest  shall  be  charged  at  the  rate
prescribed  by  the  Government  for  any
particular  loan  or  for  the  class  of  loans
(2) A loan shall bear interest for the day of
payment but not for the day of repayment.
Interest  for  any  shorter  period  than  a
complete  year  shall  be  calculated  as
follows,  unless  any  other  method  of
calculation is prescribed in any particular
case or class of cases.
Number of days X Yearly rate of interest
365 (366 in case of a leap year)
(1)  Procedure  to  be  followed  for
recovery of loans and interest thereon
and  Grant  of  moratorium.  The
instructions  issued  by  the  Ministry  of
Finance from time to time prescribing the
interest  rates  and  other
conditions  of  loans  to  State  and  Union
Territory  Governments,  Local  Bodies,
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
industrial and commercial undertakings in
the Public Sector shall be strictly followed.
(2) The recovery of loans shall ordinarily
be effected in annual equal instalments of
principal together with interest due on the
outstanding amount of principal from time
to  time.  The  repayment  and  interest
instalments  may  be  rounded  off  to  the
nearest rupee subject to final adjustment
at the time of payment of last instalment of
principal and/or interest.
(3)  A  suitable  period  of  moratorium
towards repayment might be agreed to in
individual  cases  having  regard  to  the
projects  for  which  the  loans  are  to  be
utilized.  However,  no  moratorium  shall
ordinarily be allowed in respect of interest
payable on loans.
(1) Loans to State and Union Territory
Governments, Local Bodies, Statutory
C o r p o r a t i o n s ,   P u b l i c   S e c t o r
Undertakings, etc. L o a n s   s h a l l
ordinarily  be  sanctioned  at  the  normal
rates of interest prescribed by Government
for the particular category of the loanee. In
cases where the normal rate is considered
too  high  and  a  concession  is  justified,  it
shall  take  the  form  of  direct  subsidy
debitable to the grants of the sanctioning
authority.  In  such  cases  interest  shall,
however, be paid by the borrower in the
first  instance  at  the  normal  rates  and
subsidy shall be claimed separately.
( 2 )   A g r e e m e n t s   a n d   o t h e r
In  the  case  of  loans  to  parties  other
than  State  Governments  and  wholly
owned  Government  Companies,  a
loan  agreement  specifying  all  the
terms  and  conditions  shall  be
executed. A clause shall invariably be
in  all  such  agreements
enabling Government at any time to
call  for  accounts  of  the  applicant
relating  to  any  accounting  year  with
power  to  depute  an  officer  specially
authorized for this purpose to inspect
the applicant’s books, if necessary.
(ii) A written undertaking in Form GFR 15
shall  be  obtained  from  a  wholly
Government-owned  company  at  the
time  of  sanctioning  the  loan.  The
sanction  shall  specifically  state  that
such  an  undertaking  would  be
obtained from the loanee before the
drawal of the amount of loan and a
certificate  that  the  undertaking  has
been obtained, shall be recorded by
the Drawing Officer of the office of the
sanctioning  authority  in  the  bill  for
drawal  of  the  amount  of  loan.  The
sanction  in  respect  of  loans  to  other
organizations,  where  a
agreement is required to be executed,
shall  also  be  issued  in  the  same
to  parties  other
Rule 254 Undertaking  to  be  obtained  from
w h o l l y - o w n e d   G o v e r n m e n t
In  the  case  of  loans  to  wholly-owned
Government  Companies,  a  written
undertaking  to  the  effect  that  the  fixed
assets  of  the  company  shall  not  be
hypothecated without prior approval of the
Government  shall  be  obtained  in  Form
GFR 32. No stamp duty need be paid on
these written undertakings.
Governments, wholly owned Government
Companies  and  Local  Administration  of
Union Territories shall be sanctioned only
against adequate security. The security to
be taken shall ordinarily be at least thirty-
three  and  one-third  per  cent.  more  than
the  amount  of  the  loan.  However,  a
competent authority may accept security of
less  value  for  adequate  reasons  to  be
( 1 )   S u b m i s s i o n   o f   U t i l i z a t i o n
Certificate, Reports, Statements, etc. In
cases in which conditions are attached to
the utilization of loan, either in the shape of
the  specification  of  the  particular  objects
on or the time within which the money must
be  spent  or  otherwise,  the  authority
competent  to  sanction  the  loan  shall  be
primarily  responsible  for  certifying  to  the
Accounts  Officer  where  necessary,  the
fulfilment of the conditions attaching to the
loan,  unless  there  is  any  special  rule  or
order to the contrary. The loans sanctioned
to  the  State  Governments  and  the  Local
Administration  of  Union  Territories  shall
not, however, come within the purview of
(i) The certificate referred to in Rule 256
(1) above shall be furnished as in Form
GFR 12-B and at such intervals as may
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
be  agreed  to  between  the  Audit
Officer  and/or  the  Accounts  Officer,
as the case may be, and the Ministry
or  Department  concerned.  Before
recording the certificate, the certifying
officer  shall  take  steps  to  satisfy
himself that the conditions, on which
the loan was sanctioned, have been
or are being fulfilled. For this purpose,
he may require the submission to him
at  suitable  intervals  of  such  reports,
statements, etc., which shall establish
the utilization of loan for the purpose
for  which  it  was  sanctioned.  The
institution  may  also  be
required to furnish a certificate from
attaching to the loan have been or are
being  fulfilled.  The  certificate  shall
give details of the breaches, if any, of
(ii) A Certificate of Utilization of the loan
shall  be  furnished  to  the  Accounts
Officer in every case of loan made for
specific  purposes,  even  if  of  the  any
conditions is not specifically attached
to the grant. Such certificates are not,
however,  necessary  in  cases  where
loans  are  sanctioned  not  for  any
specific purpose or object but take the
shape of a temporary financial aid or
l o a n s   h a v e   b e e n
w h e r e
the  Public  Sector
Undertakings  intended  for  financing
of their approved capital outlays. The
repayment of loan, however, has to be
watched in the usual manner.
t h e
(iii) In  respect  of  loans  the  detailed
accounts of which are maintained in
the  Audit  Offices,  the  authorities
sanctioning the loan shall furnish the
Utilization  Certificate  in  respect  of
each individual case.
(iv) Where  the  detailed  accounts  of  the
loans  are  maintained  by
D e p a r t m e n t a l   a u t h o r i t i e s ,   a
consolidated  Utilization  Certificate
shall  be  furnished  to  Audit  by  the
t h e
I n s t i t u t i o n s /
Organisations for the total amount of
the loans disbursed during each year
for  different  purposes  including  the
loans sanctioned by their subordinate
officers. This certificate shall not cover
the  loans  to  individuals  for  which
l o a n s
Utilization  Certificates  need  not  be
furnished to the Accounts Officer. The
Certificate shall indicate the year-wise
and  object-wise  break-up  of  loans
disbursed  and  the  loans  for  which
Utilizations Certificates are furnished.
The  utilization  certificate  shall  also
show  the  loans  disbursed  separately
for  each  sub-head  of  account  to
facilitate  verification  by  the  Accounts
(v) The  Utilization  Certificates  shall  be
furnished  within  a  ‘reasonable  time’
after the loan is paid to the institutions.
T h e   D e p a r t m e n t   o f   C e n t r a l
Government  shall  prescribe,  in
the  Ministry  of
target  dates  for  the
concerned to the Accounts Officer. The
target date shall, as far as possible, be
not  later  than  eighteen  months  from
the date of sanction of the loan.
(vi) In  respect  of  loans,  the  detailed
accounts of which are maintained by
Departmental  Officers  and  where
consolidated  Utilization  Certificates
are  to  be  furnished  to  Accounts
Officer, the period of 18 months shall
be  reckoned  from  the  expiry  of  the
financial year in which the loans are
d i s b u r s e d .   T h e   c o n s o l i d a t e d
Utilization  Certificates  in  respect  of
such  loans  paid  each  year  shall,
therefore, be furnished not later than
September of the second succeeding
(vii) The  due  dates  for  submission  of  the
Utilization  Certificates  shall  be
specified  in  the  letter  of  sanction  for
loan. The target date as specified shall
be rigidly enforced and extension shall
only  be  allowed  in  very  exceptional
circumstances in consultation with the
Ministry of Finance under intimation to
the Audit Officer and/or the Accounts
Officer, as the case may be. No further
loans  shall  be  sanctioned  unless  the
sanctioning  authorities  are  satisfied
about  the  proper  utilization  of  the
loan  sanctioned  to  an
Instalments  of  Loans.  When  a  loan  of
public money is taken out in instalments,
each instalment of the loan so drawn shall
Chapter – 9
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
be treated as a separate loan for purposes
of repayment of principal and payment of
interest thereon except where the various
instalments drawn during a financial year
are,  for  this  purpose,  allowed  to  be
consolidated into a single loan as at the
end of that particular financial year. In the
latter  event,  simple
prescribed  rate  on  the  various  loan
instalments  from  the  date  of  drawal  of
each  instalment  to  the  date  of  their
consolidation shall be separately payable
by the borrower. Repayment of each loan
or the consolidated loan, as the case may
be,  and  the  payment  of  interest  thereon
shall  be  arranged  by
annually on or before the anniversary date
of drawal or consolidation of the loan in
such  number  of
sanctioning authority may prescribe. The
sanctioning  authority  may  allow,
deserving  cases  a  moratorium  towards
repayment  of  principal  but  not  for  the
payment of interest. Should it appear that
there is an undue delay on the part of the
debtor in taking out the last instalment of a
loan  the  authority  sanctioning  the  loan
may at any time declare that loan closed,
and order repayment of capital to begin.
The Accounts Officer shall bring to notice
any delay that appears to him to require
this  remedy  and  he  shall  take  this  step
whether or not there are any dates fixed for
taking of instalments.
NOTE 1. These instructions are applicable
mutatis mutandis to loans, the repayments
of which are made by other than annual
NOTE 2.  It must be remembered that the
calculation  fixing  the  amount  of  equal
periodical instalments, by which a loan is
repaid with interest, presupposes punctual
payment of the instalment and that, if any
instalment  is  not  punctually  repaid,  the
interest  amount  shall  need
(1)  Defaults  in  Payment.  The  loan
sanctions  in  favour  of  State  or  Union
Territory  Governments  and
sanctions or undertakings or agreements
in  case  of  wholly  Government  owned
companies or Public Sector Undertakings
shall  invariably  include  provision  for  the
levy  of  penal
interest  on  overdue
instalments  of  interest  or  principal  and
loan  sanctions  and
in  all  other  cases  shall
invariably stipulate a higher rate of interest
and provide for lower rate of interest in the
case of punctual payments. The penal or
the higher rate of interest, as the case may
be, shall not, except under special orders
of Government, be less than two and half
per cent per annum above the normal rate
of interest prescribed by Government from
time to time for the loans advanced.
(2) Any default in the payment of interest
upon  a  loan  or  in  the  repayment  of
principal, shall be promptly reported by the
Accounts  Officer,  to  the  authority  which
sanctioned the loan. The responsibility of
the Accounts Officer, under this rule refers
only to the loans, the detailed accounts for
which are kept by him.
(3)  Procedure  to  be  followed  in  case  of
defaults in repayment of interest free loans
or loans sanctioned at concessional rates
of interest :
In  the  case  of  grant  of  interest  free
e d u c a t i o n a l
i n s t i t u t i o n s   f o r
construction  of  hostels,  prompt
repayment shall be made a condition
for the grant of interest free loans. The
sanction  letter  in  such  cases  shall
provide that in the event of any default
interest  at  rates
prescribed by Government from time
to  time  will  be  chargeable  on  the
In  the  case  of  loans  sanctioned  at
concessional  rates  of  interest  the
difference  between  the  normal  rate
and concessional rate), shall be made
conditional upon prompt repayments
of  principal  and  payment  of  interest
thereon by the entity concerned.
(iii) In  the  cases  where  in  addition  to
interest  free  loans,  subsidy  is  also
provided  to  meet  running  expenses
the sanction letter shall provide that in
the event of any default in repayment,
the  defaulted  dues  would  be
recovered out of the subsidy payable.
(4)  On  receipt  of  a  report  of  default
referred  to  in  sub-rule  (2)  above,  the
authority  concerned  shall  immediately
take steps to get the default remedied and
also  consider  enforcement  of  penal  or
higher  rate  of  interest  on  the  overdue
amounts. Where the sanctioning authority
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 9
view  to  enforce  repayments  of  the
principal and interest due.
The  Administrative  Ministries  shall  keep
watch  over  the  receipt  of  the  Annual
Statements in Form GFR 20 regularly from
the Accounts Officer and conduct a close
the  cases  of  defaults  in
repayment of the instalments of principal
and/or interest due, as revealed from these
Annual  Statements  and  take  suitable
measures for enforcing repayments of the
statements  are  not  received  in  time,  the
Accounts  Officer  shall  be  reminded
promptly.  To  facilitate  a  proper  review  of
the  position  of  outstanding  loans,  the
Ministries  may  also  arrange  to  maintain
centrally  a  list  of  all  sanctions  issued
Governments and other entities.
(2) Submission of Annual Assessment
A  copy  of  Annual  Assessment  Report  on
status  of  all  outstanding  loans,  including
timely and accurate payment of principal
and interest due, shall be submitted by the
Financial  Advisor  of  the  Administrative
Ministry  concerned  to  the  Ministry  of
Finance  by  30th  June  of  each  financial
is  satisfied,  having  regard
circumstances  of  the  case,  that  penal  or
higher interest need not be recovered, the
borrower shall ordinarily be asked to pay
interest, at the normal rate prescribed in
the loan sanction, on the overdue amount
(of principal and/or interest) from the due
date  of  payment  up  to  the  date  of
settlement of the default. The recovery of
additional  interest  shall  not  be  waived
except in special circumstances or where
the period of defaults is very short, e.g., a
Irrecoverable  Loans.  A  competent
authority,  after  prior  approval  of  the
Ministry of Finance may remit or write off
any loans owing to their irrecoverability or
Rule 260  Accounts  and  Control.  Subject  to  such
general  or  specific  directions  as  may  be
given  by  the  Comptroller  and  Auditor-
General in this behalf, detailed accounts
of loans to Institutions and Organizations,
etc., shall be maintained by the Accounts
Officer who shall watch their recovery and
see  that  the  conditions  attached  to  each
loan are fulfilled.
Rule 261  The instructions contained in this Chapter
relating  to  cost  of  audit  of  Grants-in-aid
are  applicable  Mutatis  mutandis  in  the
case of loans as well.
Rule 262  Annual Returns.
Each  Principal  Accounts  Officer  shall
submit  to  the  concerned  Ministry  or
Department of Government, a statement
in  Form  GFR  13  showing  the  details  of
outstanding  Central  Loans  borne  on  his
books  as  on  thirty-first  March  each  year.
This statement shall be submitted not later
than the following thirtieth September and
the  aggregate  of
outstanding  balance  of  loans,  details  of
defaults, if any, in repayment of principal
and/ or interest and the earliest period to
which  the  default  pertains,  against  each
State  or  Union  Territory  Government,
foreign  Government,  Railway  or
Department of Posts funds, Central Public
Sector and other Government Institutions
etc.  Where,  however,  detailed  accounts
are not required to be maintained by the
the  statement  shall
contain  departmental  authority-wise
aggregate balances of outstanding loans.
(1) Review of Annual Statements with a
Chapter – 10
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING OF
EXTERNALLY AIDED PROJECTS
(1)  Implementation  of  Projects  or
Schemes through external aid receipt.
The  projects  or  schemes  of
Government of India to be implemented
through  external  aid  receipt
multilateral or bilateral funding agencies
shall  be  shown  in  the  budget  proposals
approved annually by the Parliament.
(2) The external aid comes from bilateral
and multilateral sources as follows:
(i) Bilateral  funding  to  finance  specific
project(s)  by  the  funding  agency(ies)
under  Government  to  Government
(ii) Multi-lateral funding by Multi-Lateral
Funding Agencies, such as the World
Bank under agreement(s) between the
borrower (Government of India) and
the Multilateral Funding Agency(ies).
(3) The Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry  of  Finance  as  the  nodal  agency
shall  execute  the  legal  agreement  for
loans  or  grants  from  external  funding
Agency(ies).  However,  grant  agreements
for  Technical  Assistance  can  also  be
executed  by  the  beneficiary  Ministries  or
Departments with the approval of Ministry
of  Finance,  Department  of  Economic
(4)  The  Office  of  the  Controller  of  Aid
Accounts  and  Audit
Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry
of  Finance  shall  be  responsible
implementing the financial covenants laid
down  in  the  agreement(s)  executed  by
Department(s)  of  Government  of  India
and  the  External  Funding  Agency(ies).  A
copy of all such agreements shall be sent
to  the  Office  of  Controller,  Aid  Accounts
and  Audit,  Department  of  Economic
Affairs for this purpose.
Rule 265 Currency of external aid.
The  external  aid  shall  flow  from  the
Funding  Agency  in  foreign  currency  or
Indian Rupees and shall be received by the
Reserve  Bank  of  India,  Mumbai  which
shall  remit  the  rupee  equivalent  to  the
account  of  Controller,  Aid  Accounts  and
Audit, Department of Economic Affairs at
Reserve  Bank  of  India,  New  Delhi.  The
remittances shall be accounted as external
loan/Grant  receipts  in  the  Consolidated
Fund of India.
Rule 266 Accounting of Cash grants.Cash grants,
as distinct from commodity grant or other
assistance in kind received from external
sources shall be accounted for only by the
office  of  Controller  of  Aid  Accounts  and
Audit, Department of Economic Affairs.
Procedure  for  withdrawal.  The
concerned  administrative  Ministries  or
Departments  shall  be  required  to  make
provision of funds under the relevant head
of account as ‘External Aided Component’
in their Detailed Demands for Grants for
release of external aid amounts during the
year to the respective Project Implementing
Agencies.  There  are  mainly  two
procedures  laid  down  for  withdrawal  of
funds from the loan or grant account:
(1)  Reimbursement  procedure.
Under  the  reimbursement  procedure  the
Project Implementing Agency shall initially
incur  expenditure  and
subsequently  claim  the  amount  from  the
Funding Agency through the office of the
Controller, Aid Accounts. The remittances
shall  be  accounted  as  External  Loan  or
Grant receipt in the Consolidated Fund of
India. There are two ways of dealing with
the reimbursement claims as given below:
(i) Reimbursement  through  Special
Account (Revolving Fund Scheme).
Under the Revolving Fund Scheme, the
Funding  Agency  disburses  the
estimated expenditure of four months
for  the  projects  as  initial  advance  to
India  under  the
respective  loan  or  credit  or  grant
agreement. Office of Controller of Aid
Accounts  &  Audit  withdraws  the
amount specified in the agreement as
Agency,  by  sending  a  simple
prescribed  format  after  the  loan  is
declared effective. Such initial deposit
designated in US Dollars is received by
Reserve  Bank  of  India,  Mumbai  and
Rupee equivalent shall be passed on to
Controller  of  Aid  Accounts  &  Audit
t h r o u g h   G o v e r n m e n t   Fo r e i g n
Transaction  (GFT)  advice.  However,
Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai shall
loan  wise  proforma
account  for  liquidation  of  advance
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 10
received from Funding Agency. Office
of  Controller  of  Aid  Accounts  and
Audit,  on  receipt  of  reimbursement
claims  from  Project  Implementing
Agency,  shall  send  an  advice  to
Reserve  Bank  of
advising it to debit the Special Account
with the US Dollars equivalent of the
amount of the eligible claim. Office of
Controller,  Aid  Accounts  and  Audit
shall consolidate all such claims and
replenishment  of  Special  Account.
This  shall  be  accompanied  by  a
statement of debits and credits made
during the period by Reserve Bank of
India,  Mumbai  and  supporting
documents  received  from  the  Project
to  Funding  Agency
f r o m
(ii) Reimbursement  outside  Special
Account:  Under  the  reimbursement
procedure (where there is no provision
in the loan or credit agreement for the
Special Account or the balance in the
Special  Account  is  ‘Nil’)  office  of
Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit
shall send the reimbursement claims
t h e   P r o j e c t
r e c e i v e d
Implementing  Agency  direct  to  the
Funding  Agency  after  checking  the
eligibility aspect. The Funding Agency
shall disburse the eligible expenditure
the  borrower’s  account  with
Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai, who
shall pass on the Rupee equivalent to
the  account  of  the  Controller  of  Aid
Accounts and Audit at Reserve Bank of
India,  New  Delhi  by  issue  of
Government  Foreign  Transaction
(2)  Direct  Payment  Procedure.
Under  this  procedure  adopted  in  some
cases the Funding Agency, on the request
through  Controller  of  Aid
Accounts  and  Audit),  duly  supported  by
relevant  documents,  shall  directly  pay  to
the  contractor  or  supplier  or  consultant
from the loan or credit or grant account.
The Funding Agency, after satisfying itself
as to the eligibility of the expenditure etc.
remits the amount directly to the account
of  the  payees  as  per  the  payment
instructions. The Funding Agency apprises
the  office  of  Controller  of  Aid  Accounts
and  Audit  and  the  Project  Implementing
Agency of the particulars of the payment
made. Office of Controller of Aid Accounts
and  Audit  shall  work  out  the  rupee
payment.  This  rupee  equivalent  shall  be
recovered  by  office  of  Controller  of  Aid
Accounts  and  Audit  from  the  Project
Implementing  Agencies  or  State
Governments  which  have  availed  of  the
Direct Payment Procedure.
Note  :  In  the  case  of  Central  Projects,
Centrally  Sponsored  Projects  and  Public
Sector  or  Financial
concerned  administrative  Ministry  or
Department shall release the fund to the
Project  Implementing  Agency  with  the
instruction to deposit rupee equivalent of
the  foreign  currency  that  have  been
availed of under Direct Payment Procedure
by them to the account of Controller of Aid
Accounts  and  Audit  at  Reserve  Bank  of
India,  New  Delhi  or  Branch  of  SBI  so
(1)  Fund  Flow  for  State  Projects
financed from external aid source. T h e
respective  Departments  of
Government  shall  provide  in  the  Budget
such expenditure proposed to be incurred
under  Plan  Schemes  during  the  financial
Agencies. These shall be in respect of State
projects to be financed from external aid
sources  both  under  loan  or  credit  and
grants and eligible for disbursement from
Funding Agency under Reimbursement or
Direct Payment Procedure.
(2) Fund flow for State Projects under
Reimbursement  Procedure.  The
disbursements under the “Reimbursement
t h r o u g h   S p e c i a l   A c c o u n t ”   a n d
“Reimbursement  out  side  Special
Account”, referred to in Rule 267 (i), shall
be  consolidated  at  periodical  intervals
under each loan or credit State-wise by the
office of the Controller of Aid Accounts and
Audit. The details of the same shall be sent
to Plan Finance Division of the Department
of Expenditure in the Ministry of Finance for
release  of  funds  to  the  respective  State
Governments. The Plan Finance division of
Department of Expenditure in the Ministry
of Finance shall issue sanctions for actual
release of the disbursement for each State.
A copy of such sanction shall be endorsed
Chapter – 10
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
to  the  Finance  Department  of
concerned  State  Government
information.  The  office  of  the  Chief
Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Finance
shall  issue  the  Inter-Government  (IG)
Advice to Reserve Bank of India, Central
Accounts Section, Nagpur, for effecting the
t he  con cerne d  Stat e
Governments.  The  account  of  the  State
Government maintained at Reserve Bank
India,  Central  Accounts  Section,
Nagpur, shall be credited with the amount
so released, thus, completing the cycle of
funds from the expenditure incurred from
the Budget of the State till receipt of funds
of such expenditure from Government of
India to the State.
(3) Fund flow for State Projects under
D i r e c t   P a y m e n t   P r o c e d u r e .
Under  Direct  Payment  Procedure  the
claims shall be processed as mentioned in
Rule  267  (ii).  Office  of  Controller  of  Aid
Accounts  and  Audit  shall  work  out  the
Rupee equivalent of such Direct Payment
based  on  Reserve  Bank  of  India  buying
rate applicable for the value date on which
the  Direct  Payment  was  made.  Office  of
Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit shall
consolidate such disbursement in Rupees,
and send a list of such disbursement State-
to  Plan  Finance  Division  of
Department  of  Expenditure  at  periodical
intervals  requesting  them  to  release  the
amount to the State concerned notionally
and  recover  the  same  for  credit  to
Controller  of  Aid  Accounts  and  Audit’s
account.  The  Plan  Finance  Division  shall
issue a separate sanction for the amount
to be released to the State concerned and
for simultaneous recovery and credit back
to  the  account  of  the  Controller  of  Aid
Accounts  and  Audit.  A  copy  of  such
sanction  shall  also  be  endorsed  to  the
Finance  Department  of
Government concerned. The office of the
Chief  Controller  of  Accounts,  Ministry  of
Finance  shall  advise  Reserve  Bank  of
India, Central Accounts Section, Nagpur,
for  making  necessary  adjustment  entries
in  the  accounts  of  the  State  concerned
Department of the State and Controller of
Aid  Accounts  and  Audit.  This  completes
the cycle of funds flow in the case of direct
Fund  flow  for  Central  or  Central
sponsored Projects. Under the Central or
Central  sponsored  project  financed  from
external  aid,  whether  loan  or  grant,  the
process of disbursement of such claims by
the Funding Agency shall be the same as
explained  in  Rule  267.  The  respective
Ministry  or  Department  get  EAP  funds
under  a  separate  budget  head  when
Demands  for  Grants  are  passed  in  the
Parliament  and  advised  by  the  Budget
Division  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  The
funds  shall  be  released
Implementing Agency within six weeks by
the administrative Ministry or Department
with reference to expenditure incurred by
the Project Implementing Agency.
Fund flow for Public Sector or Financial
t h e   P r o j e c t
I n s t i t u t i o n s .   W h e n
Implementing  Agency  under  Loan  or
Credit  Agreement  is  a  Public  Sector  or
Financial Institution or Autonomous Body
and Government of India is the Borrower,
the Administrative Ministry concerned shall
provide in its budget funds required to be
passed  on  to  the  Project  Implementing
Agency for the expenditure incurred by the
latter  under  the  externally  aided  project.
The  Project  Implementing  Agency  shall
submit  claims  under  reimbursement  or
direct payment procedures to the office of
the Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit,
Department  of  Economic  Affairs.  The
disbursement of the claims by the Funding
Agency  shall  be  similar  as  explained  in
Rule  267.  The  concerned  administrative
Ministry  or  Department  releases  the
amount  to  Project  Implementing  Agency
based on the certification of disbursement
received  from  the  Funding  Agency  as
certified by the office of the Controller of
Aid Accounts and Audit.
However,  where  the  loan  is  negotiated
directly  by  a  particular  Public  Sector
Undertaking  or  Financial  Institution,  the
funds from the Funding Agency shall flow
direct to the borrowing entity.
Repayment of loans. Office of Controller
of  Aid  Accounts  and  Audit  shall  be
responsible  for  prompt  repayment  of
principal  on  the  due  date  as  per  the
agreements.  The  remittance  of  foreign
currency is arranged through designated
Public  Sector  Commercial  Banks  and
India.  The  Rupee
Reserve  Bank  of
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 10
Department  of  Economic  Affairs  for
making the budget provision in regard to
aid material or equipment.
Note : Refer to Para 4.8.1 of Civil Accounts
Manual and Note (1) below Major Head
‘3606-Aid  Materials  and  Equipments’  of
List of Major and Minor Heads of Account
of Union and States for detail procedure of
adjustment  of  value  of  the  materials  etc.
l o a n   a c c o u n t
equivalent  and  the  amount  of  foreign
currency remitted shall be intimated by the
Banks to Controller of Aid Accounts and
Audit. The Rupee equivalent of the foreign
respective  Banks’  account  maintained  at
Reserve Bank of India, New Delhi, by debit
to Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit’s
account as per standing arrangement. On
the  receipt  of  the  advice  from  Reserve
Bank  of  India,  New  Delhi,  Controller  of
Aid  Accounts  and  Audit  shall  debit  the
c o n c e r n e d
t h e
Consolidated  Fund  of
repayment of loans shall be classified as
charged expenditure. In cases where the
funds  from  externally  aided  Projects  are
further passed on as loans, the recovery of
the  loan  along  with  interest  shall  be  the
r e s p o n s i b i l i t y   o f
t h e   r e s p e c t i v e
administrative Ministry or Department.
Interest Payments. Interest  on  external
loans  shall  be  paid  on  the  due  date  as
stipulated in the loan or credit agreements
against the budget provision made for this
Interest  payments  shall  be
accounted  for  as  debit  under  the  Major
external loans in the Consolidated Fund of
India.  The  procedure  for  transfer  of
amount shall be the same as followed in
the case of repayment of loans, referred to
in Rule 271 above. The interest payment
shall be classified as charged expenditure.
Rule 273  Accounting of exchange variation. T h e
exchange  variation  in  respect  of  foreign
loans that have been fully repaid shall be
a d j u s t e d   w r i t t e n   o f f
t o   “ 8 6 8 0 -
Miscellaneous  Government  Accounts  -
terms  of  Government
Accounting  Rules  and  the  procedures
prescribed  by  CGA  in  consultation  with
Rule 274  Aid
in  form  of  materials  and
equipment.  In  cases  where  materials,
equipment  and  other  commodities,
without  involving  any  cash  inflow,  are
received as aid from foreign countries, the
Funding  Agency  issues  an  advice  to  the
concerned Ministry or Department giving
details  of  materials  supplied  along  with
thereof.  The  Ministry  or
intimate  the  details  to  the  office  of  the
Controller  of  Aid  Accounts  and  Audit,
Chapter – 11
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
the  Union  Government
(1)    Power  to  Give  and  Limits  on
Government Guarantees. The  power
guarantees emanates from and is subject
to such limits as may be fixed in terms of
Article 292 of the Constitution of India, the
Fiscal  Responsibility  and  Budget
Management Act and Rules framed there
under as amended from time to time.
(2) In terms of the Fiscal Responsibility and
Budget  Management  Act  and  Rules
f r a m e d
t h e   C e n t r a l
Government  shall  not  give  guarantees
the  amount  prescribed
(3) Powers to grant Government of India
Guarantee,  including  those  on  external
borrowings, vests with the Budget Division,
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA).
t h e r e u n d e r,
Rule 276 O b j e c t i v e s   o f   G o v e r n m e n t
Guarantees: The sovereign guarantee is
normally  extended  for  the  purpose  of
achieving the following objectives:
To  improve  viability  of  projects  or
activities undertaken by central entities
with  significant  social  and  economic
(ii) To  enable  central  public  sector
companies to raise resources  at lower
interest  charges  or  on  more
(iii) To  fulfil  the  requirement  in  cases
where  sovereign  guarantee
precondition  for  concessional  loans
from  bilateral/  multilateral  agencies
t o   c e n t r a l   p u b l i c   s e c t o r
Rule 277 Guidelines for grant of Government of
India  Guarantee:  The
guidelines  should  be  followed  by  the
Ministries  or  Departments  of
Government  of  India  for  recommending
guarantee or counter guarantee.—
(i) A  proposal
for  guarantee  by
Government must be justified in public
interest  such  as  in  the  case  of
borrowings  by  central  public  sector
institutions for approved development
purposes  or  borrowings  by  central
public sector undertakings from Banks
for  working  capital  and  other
(ii) T h e   A d m i n i s t r a t i v e   M i n i s t r y /
Department or the credit Divisions of
Department of Economic Affairs shall
examine the proposal in consultation
with the Financial Adviser in the same
manner as a proposal for loan. While
examining the proposal the following
considerations shall be kept in view :-
(a) P u b l i c
i n t e r e s t   w h i c h   t h e
guarantee is expected to serve.
(b) Credit worthiness of the borrower
to  ensure  that  no  undue  risk  is
(c) Terms of the borrowing shall take
the  yields  as
applicable on Government paper
of similar maturity.
(d) The  conditions  prescribed  in  the
guarantee  order/agreement  in
order  to  ensure  continued  credit
worthiness of the borrower.
(iii) Risk associated with assumption of a
proposal, including the probability of
future  payouts  should  be  thoroughly
t h e   c o n c e r n e d
a s s e s s e d   b y
or Credit Divisions of Department of
Economic  Affairs  recommending  the
proposal.  Such  assessment  should
ideally be entrusted to an independent
unit and should be undertaken even
when it has already been decided by a
t o   p r o v i d e
h i g h e r   a u t h o r i t y
guarantees.  The  assessment  should
reveal  an  accurate  picture  of  the
financial condition of the entity to be
guaranteed;  risks  associated  with
scheme,  etc.  This  information  would
be useful to estimate the funds needed
to  meet  associated  contingent
liabilities if the need should arise, in
current or future budgets.
(iv) After  examination  in  the  concerned
Ministry  or  Department  or  Credit
Division  of  DEA,  all  proposals  for
extending  guarantees  shall  be
referred  to  Budget  Division,  DEA  for
approval.  No  guarantees  shall  be
given without the approval of Budget
(v) With a view to enable the Ministry of
to  examine  cases  of
Government of India guarantees and
extension  thereto,  all  Ministries  or
Departments  should  furnish  to  that
Ministry,  data  of  certain  operational
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 11
the  Public  Sector
Undertaking or Entity, as given in GFR
26. In case the accounts of the Central
Public  Sector  Undertaking  or  Entity
have been audited by the Comptroller
& Auditor General of India, the effect
of the comments of the Comptroller &
Auditor  General  of  India  on  the
Central  Public  Sector  Undertaking’s
profitability  should  be  brought  out.
Further, where BIFR targets have been
assigned or Cabinet directions issued
to the Company, the actuals vis-à-vis
targets for the preceding three years
should be indicated. The data should
be  furnished  in  the  Form  GFR  26
(vi) Guarantees  shall  normally  be
the  repayment  of
principal  and  normal
component  of  the  loan.  Other  risks
s h a l l   n o t
t h e
f o r m   p a r t   o f
(vii)   Government  guarantees  will  be
extended to only central public sector
(viii) Government guarantees shall not be
provided to the private sector.
(ix) Government  guarantees  should
normally not be extended for external
(x) Government  guarantees  may  be
given on all soft loan components of
the  bilateral/multilateral  aid.
However,  guarantee  shall  not  be
normally  given  for  the  commercial
loan components of such aid.
(xi) Government  of  India  guarantee  will
not  be  given  in  cases  of  grants.
However,  if  the  donor  insists  on
ensuring performance, the same may
be listed as a negotiating condition for
getting the grant.
(xii) Appropriate conditions, may be made
by  Government  while  giving  the
guarantee e.g. period of guarantee,
levy of fee to cover risk, representation
for  Government  on  the  Board  of
Management,  Mortgage  or  lien  on
the assets, submission to Government
of  periodical  reports  and  accounts,
right  to  get  the  accounts  audited  on
behalf of Government etc. Even if fee,
representation and mortgage are not
considered  necessary,  the  right  to
verify the continued credit–worthiness
of the borrower should be ensured.
(xiii) Guarantees may not be proposed for
pursuing  low  priority  objectives  or
programmes.  Proposal  for  grant  of
guarantee  as  an  off-budget  support
s h o u l d   a l s o   b e   e x a m i n e d
comprehensively  by  the  proposing
Ministry/Department  against  other
alternative  forms  of  support  which
may  be  more  appropriate  and  cost-
effective. For example, in the case of
provision  of  credit  guarantees  to
that  continually  incur
losses  as  a  result  of  government's
pricing policy, budgetary subsidies or
direct  government  loans  may  be  a
more  effective  and
(xiv) Guarantees may not be proposed in
respect  of  Central  Public  Sector
Enterprises  whose  strong  financial
credentials  and  high  credit  rating
would  indicate  inherent  ability  to
directly  raise  the  required  resources
without  the  support  of  government
Borrowings from multilateral agencies
by Central Public Sector Undertakings.
(i) All  borrowings  from  the  multilateral
agencies  by  Central  Public  Sector
Undertakings would be direct (without
Government of India’s intermediation)
on  the  terms  as  agreed  mutually
between the borrower and the lender
and approved by the Government of
India.  However,  where  such  terms
involve  guarantee  of  Government  of
India,  prior  approval  of  the  Budget
Division of the Ministry of Finance may
(ii) The  borrowing  should  relate  to  the
Projects  approved  by  the  prescribed
competent  authority  of  the  Central
(iii) Wherever guarantee is to be given by
Government  of  India,  the  borrower
shall enter into an agreement with the
Government of India for the payment
of  guarantee  fee  on  the  principal
amount  of  the  loan  drawn  and  loan
outstanding from time to time.
(iv) The Government of India Guarantee
would only cover the principal amount
Chapter – 11
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
and the normal interest. All other risks
including  the  exchange  rate  risk
would  be  shared  between
borrower and lender as per terms and
conditions  prescribed  in  the  loan
(1)  Levy of Guarantee Fees. The rates of
fee on guarantees would be as notified by
the  Budget  Division,  Department  of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance from
time to time. The rates of guarantee fee are
given  in  Appendix  -  12.  Ministries  or
Departments shall levy the prescribed fee
in respect of all cases. The fees are also to
be  levied  in  respect  of  non-fund  based
borrowings or credits (viz. letters of credit,
Bank  guarantees  etc.).  In  case  of  any
doubt with regard to the categorisation of
a n y   p a r t i c u l a r   u n d e r t a k i n g   o r
organization  or  the  nature  of  borrowing
for the purpose of levy of fee, the matter
may be referred to the Budget Division for
c l a r i f i c a t i o n .   T h e   M i n i s t r i e s   o r
Departments  should  also  take  adequate
steps  to  ensure  prompt  recovery  of  the
(2)  The  guarantee  fee  should  be  levied
is  given  and
thereafter on first April every year. The rate
of guarantee fee is to be applied on the
amount  outstanding  at  the  beginning  of
the guarantee year.
(3) Where the guarantee fee is not paid on
the  due  date,  fee  should  be  charged  at
double the normal rates for the period of
(4)  The  Government  may  guarantee  no
more  than  80%  of  the  project  loan,
depending on the conditions imposed by
the  lender.  This  would  incentivize  the
lenders  to  make  proper  analysis  of  the
project,  credit  worthiness  of
borrower(s),  and  build  strategies  for  risk
management.  In  such  cases,  bankers/
lenders may be asked to share the risk by
bearing a minimum of 20% of the net loss
associated  with  any  default.
arrangement  would  ensure
lenders  undertake  a  more  rigorous
assessment of the risk exposure.
Provided further that in certain exceptional
circumstances,  the  Government  of  India
may  guarantee  100%  of  the  financing
where  the  organisation  concerned  is
discharging some function on behalf of the
Government of India.
Execution of Government Guarantees.
(i) Once  the  guarantee  is  approved  by
Ministry  of  Finance,  the  guarantees
will be executed and monitored by the
Administrative  Ministries  concerned,
who  are  also  required  to  report  the
status  in  this  regard  on  an  annual
basis  till  they  are  invoked  or  are
obliterated.  The  following  guidelines
need to be kept in view while issuing
a) The obligations of the borrower to
loan  and  the
guarantee, and the monitoring of
the  utilization  of  the  guaranteed
loans, and adherence to the terms
and  conditions  of  the  guarantee
by the Borrower shall be ensured
by  the  Administrative  Ministry/
Department  through  a  back-to-
back  agreement  with  the
borrower which may be drawn up
a n d
t o   t h e
satisfaction  of  the  Administrative
Ministry  concerned.  For  this
purpose,  necessary  records  to
monitor the guarantee, including
servicing  of  guarantee  fee  shall
be  maintained  by
M i n i s t r i e s /   D e p a r t m e n t s
i m p l e m e n t e d
b) Administrative  Ministry  should
there  are  no
inconsistencies  between  the
guarantee approval given by the
Ministry  of  Finance  and
guarantee agreement signed by it
with the borrower. The obligations
enforced  by  the  Government  as
guarantor would be duly factored
c) D e v i a t i o n s / m o d i f i c a t i o n s /
particularly with reference to the
rate of interest on the loan to be
guaranteed  and  obligations  of
the  Government  to  be  covered,
should not be referred in a routine
manner  to  Budget  Division  for
clarification/  change.  The
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e   M i n i s t r y
concerned  shall  make  out  a
separate case, fully justifying the
for  considering  any
p r o p o s e d   m o d i f i c a t i o n s /
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 11
scrutiny  of  the  request  of  the
borrower  for  the  same,  before
placing  these  proposals  before
the  Budget  Division  for  a  final
In  respect  of  bilateral  and
multilateral  credit,  Standard
format  of  Guarantee  of
institutions  may  be
examined  with  a  view  that  the
same  are  not  in  contradiction
with  the  conditions  of  sovereign
chapter,  before  signing  by  the
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e   M i n i s t r y /
Department.  The  guarantee
agreement may also not omit any
conditions as brought out in this
Chapter.  New  conditions  or
covenants,  and  differences,  if
any,  shall  be  referred  to  Budget
Division  of  the  Department  of
e) Guarantee  proposals  approved
by the Budget Division shall have
to  be  executed  in  the  same
financial  year.  If  the  guarantee/
loan agreement is not signed in
the same financial year as that of
the  approval  of  the  guarantee
t h e   g u a r a n t e e
p r o p o s a l ,
proposal  shall  have
The guarantee shall hold only for
the specific purpose agreed to by
the Budget Division.
g) Guarantee given by Government
I n d i a   s h a l l   b e   n o n -
transferrable and would cease to
exist in case the ownership of the
Government of India, unless the
Guarantee is re-confirmed by the
(ii) The  Financial  Advisers  in  Ministry/
Department  will  perform
responsibility  of  maintenance  of
records  and  reporting  including  for
the  Finance  Accounts  and  the  IGAS,
through the office of Controller/Chief
Controller of Accounts.
(1) Review of Guarantees. All Ministries
or  Departments  shall  ensure  that  all
guarantees  are  reviewed  every  year.  The
monitoring  or  review  undertaken  should
the  borrower  is
discharging  repayment  obligations  or
interest obligations as per terms of the loan
agreement, whether the repaying capacity
for  the  loan  and  guarantee  amount  is
imposed in any manner, and whether all
covenants  and  conditions  are  being
religiously followed. The Financial Advisers
of  the  Ministries  or  Departments  should
undertake  these  reviews.  A  copy  of  the
review  report  including  on  timely  and
correct  payment  of  guarantee  fees,  shall
be forwarded by the Finance Advisor to the
Budget Division by 30th April every year for
the previous financial year.
(2) The Financial Adviser of the Ministries
or Departments would be responsible for
ensuring  that  the  annual  reviews  are
the  Ministries  or
carried  out  by
Departments  concerned.  They  shall  also
ensure  that  a  register  of  guarantees  in
Form GFR 25 is maintained :-
to keep a record of guarantees;
to  retain  information  required  from
time to time in respect of guarantees;
(iii) to keep record of the annual reviews to
these  are  carried  out
to keep record of levy and recovery of
to send data as contained in Form GFR
25,  duly  updated  every  year  to  the
Budget  Division  in  the  Ministry  of
Finance,  Department  of  Economic
Affairs by tenth of April.
(3) In respect of guarantees issued by the
Ministry of Finance for external loans, the
respective credit divisions of Department of
Economic Affairs shall conduct an annual
review  in  consultation  with  the  Financial
Financial  Adviser  (DEA)  shall  ensure  the
maintenance of the required registers, as
well as ensure that the annual reviews are
carried  out  by
the  concerned  credit
divisions,  and  report  forwarded  to  the
Budget Division inForm GFR 25. In cases,
where  the  guarantees  on  external  loans
are issued by the concerned administrative
Ministry, that Ministry would be responsible
for conducting the review.
(4) Classification of guarantees. For the
purpose  of  record  keeping,  guarantees
shall be classified asunder:-
Chapter – 11
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(i) guarantees  given  to  the  RBI,  other
banks  and  industrial  and  financial
institutions for repayment of principal
and  payment  of  interest,  cash  credit
f a c i l i t y,
f i n a n c i n g   s e a s o n a l
agricultural  operations  and/or
providing  working  capital
companies, corporations, cooperative
societies and banks;
(ii) guarantees  given  for  repayment  of
share  capital,  payment  of  minimum
annual  dividend  and  repayment  of
bonds or loans, debentures issued or
raised  by  the  statutory  corporations
a n d   c e n t r a l   p u b l i c   s e c t o r
(iii) guarantees  given  in  pursuance  of
I n d i a   w i t h
G o v e r n m e n t   o f
governments,  contractors,  suppliers,
consultants  etc.,  towards  repayment
interest  and/  or
commitment  charges  on  loans  etc.,
and /or for payment against supplies
of material and equipment;
(iv) counter  guarantees
consideration  of  the  banks  having
issued letters of credit or authority to
foreign suppliers for supplies   made
or services rendered.
(v) guarantees given to Railways for due
and  punctual  payment  of  dues  by
Central  Government  companies  or
(vi) Others guarantees not covered under
above five classes.
Rule 282 Accounting for Guarantees. In order to
ensure  greater  transparency  in  its  fiscal
operations in the public interest, Rule 6 of
the  FRBM  Rules,  2004  requires
to  publish  a  disclosure
statement  on  guarantees  given  by
government, at the time of presenting the
annual financial statement and demands
for grants. This statement covers, inter alia,
details regarding the class and number of
guarantees,  amounts  guaranteed,
outstanding,  invocations,  guarantee  fee
payable and other material details.
The statement is to be compiled by the
A d m i n i s t r a t i v e   M i n i s t r i e s /
Departments  and  submitted
Controller  General  of  Accounts,  for
Division.  Based  upon  the  inputs,  a
statement of Guarantees given by the
Central Government is depicted as an
annexure in the Receipt Budget.
(ii) While  furnishing  the  Statement  of
guarantees to the Ministry of Finance,
the  Administrative  Ministries  or
Departments should ensure and certify
that the amounts shown tally with the
total  figures  in  the  statement  to  be
included in the Detailed Demands for
th e   Mi n i s tri e s   or
s t ate m e n ts ,
Departments  should  also  certify  that
tallies  with  the
material  furnished  to  the  Controller
General of Accounts for the purpose of
inclusion  in  the  Finance  Accounts  of
the relevant year and is compliant with
Indian  Government  Accounting
Standard-  1  (IGAS-1)  relating  to
Invocation  of  Guarantee.  A
Guarantee  Redemption  Fund  (GRF)  has
been established in the Public Account of
India for redemption of guarantees given
to CPSEs, Financial Institutions, etc., by the
Central  Government  whenever  such
guarantees are invoked. The funding to the
Guarantee Redemption Fund is to be done
through  budgetary  appropriations,  as
considered  appropriate,  under  the  head
'Transfer to Guarantee Redemption Fund'
through  the  Demands  for  Grants  of  the
Department of Economic Affairs.
(2)  The  Administrative  Ministries/
Departments  should  inform  any  case  of
invocation,  well  in
advance,  to  the  Budget  Division,  along
with the proposed corrective measures.
(3)  In  the  event  of  invocation  of  a
the  obligation  may  be
discharged  by  sanctioning  loan  to  the
borrowing  entity  equal  to  the  amount  of
guarantee  outstanding  with  the  approval
of  Budget  Division,  Ministry  of  Finance.
However, any payment on this account will
finally  be  charged  to  the  Guarantee
Redemption Fund maintained in the Public
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 12
Proposal  for  additions  to
A l l   p r o p o s a l s
f o r   a d d i t i o n s
establishment  shall  be  submitted
sanctioning  authority  in  accordance  with
the instructions contained in Rule 11 of the
Delegation of Financial Powers Rules and
other  such  instructions  which  may  be
prescribed in this regard.
(2) All proposals for creation of new posts
or a revision in an existing establishment
should contain, inter alia:-
the present cost of the establishment
proposed  giving  details  of  pay  and
allowances of post(s) proposed;
(iii) expenditure  in  respect  of  claim  to
pension or gratuity or other retirement
b e n e f i t s
consequence of the proposals;
t h a t   m a y   a r i s e
(iv) details  on  how  the  expenditure  is
to  be  met
(3)  Continuation  of  an  existing  post
beyond the specified duration will be with
explicit  approval  of  Ministry  of  Finance,
based on functional justification.
(4)  All  proposals
emoluments for an existing post(s) shall be
referred  to  the  Ministry  of  Finance  for
All  service  matters  from  entry  to  exit,
performance  appraisal  should  be
maintained in a digitised format.
(1)  Transfer  of  Charge.  A  report  of
transfer  of  a  Gazetted  Government
servant  duly  made  in  Form  GFR  16  and
signed both by the relieved and relieving
Government servants, shall be sent on the
same day to the Head of the Department
or  other  Controlling  Officers  concerned
except  in  the  following  types  of  cases  in
respect  of  which  report  of  transfer  of
charge  need  not  be  signed  both  by  the
relieving  and  relieved  Government
servants simultaneously and may be sent
(i) Where  a  Gazetted  Government
servant  assumes  charge  of  a  newly
created or vacant post or relinquishes
charge  of  a  post  which  has  been
(ii) Where  a  Gazetted  government
servant  vacates  a  post  for  a  short
period and no formal appointment or
officiating arrangement is made in his
(iii) Where  due
exigencies  a  government  servant  is
required  to  move  to  another  post
relinquishing  his  post  against  local
(2) In cases in which the transfer of charge
involves  assumption  of  responsibility  for
cash, stores, etc., the following instructions
should be observed :-
(i) The  Cash  Book  or  imprest  account
should  be  closed  on  the  date  of
transfer and a note recorded in it over
the signatures of both the relieved and
the  relieving  Government  servants,
the  cash  and  imprest
balances  and  the  number  of  unused
cheques/receipt  books,  if  any,  made
o v e r   a n d   r e c e i v e d   b y   t h e m
(ii) The  relieving  Government  servant
to  notice  anything
irregular  or  objectionable
conduct  of  business  that  may  have
come  officially  to  his  notice  to  the
(iii) In  the  case  of  any  sudden  casualty
occurring  or  any  emergent  necessity
arising  for  a  Government  servant  to
relinquish his charge, the next senior
officer of the department present shall
take  charge.  When  the  person  who
is  not  a  Gazetted
Government servant, he must at once
report the circumstances to his nearest
departmental  superior  and  obtain
orders as to the cash in hand, if any.
(3)  The  additional  procedure
followed by an Audit Officer or Accounts
Officer, etc., in making over charge of his
functions in connection with the Charitable
Endowments  and  other  Trust  Accounts  is
laid down in Appendix – 8.
Rule 287 Date  of  Birth.  Every  person  newly
appointed  to  a  service  or  a  post  under
Chapter – 12
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Government  shall,  at  the  time  of  the
appointment, declare the date of birth by
the  Christian  era  with  confirmatory
documentary  evidence  such  as  a
M a t r i c u l a t i o n   C e r t i f i c a t e ,   w h e r e
prescribed  qualification  for  appointment
is Matriculation or above. In other cases
Municipal  Birth  Certificate  or  Certificate
from the recognised school last attended
shall be treated as a valid document.
(1)  Service  Book.  Detailed  Rules  for
maintenance  of  Service  Books  are
in  SRs.  Service  Books
maintained in the establishment should be
verified every year by the Head of Office
who,  after  satisfying  himself  that  the
services  of  Government  servants
concerned are correctly recorded in each
Service  Book  shall  record  the  following
certificate “Service verified from ……(the
date record from which the verification is
(2)  The  service  book  of  a  government
servant shall be maintained in duplicate.
First  copy  shall  be  retained  and
maintained by the Head of the Office and
the  second  copy  should  be  given  to  the
government  servant  for  safe  custody  as
indicated below :-
(i) To the existing employees - within six
months  of  the  date  on  which  these
rules become effective, if not already
(ii) To new appointees - within one month
of the date of appointment.
(3) In January each year the Government
servant  shall  handover  his  copy  of  the
Service Book to his office for updation. The
office  shall  update  and  return  it  to  the
Government Servant within thirty days of
(4) In case the Government servants’ copy
is lost by the government servant, it shall
be replaced on payment of a sum of Rs.
(5) All Service Books should be digitised
for easy reference and to avoid problems
in case of loss of Service Books.
Retrospective claim due from date of
sanction. In the case of sanction accorded
with  retrospective  effect  the  charge  does
not become due before it is sanctioned. In
such cases the time-limit specified in Rule
296 (1) should be reckoned from the date
of sanction and not from the date on which
the sanction takes effect.
Rule 290 Due  date  of  T.  A.  claim.  Travelling
allowance claim of a government servant
shall  fall  due  for  payment  on  the  date
succeeding the date of completion of the
journey.  He  shall  submit  the  travelling
allowance  claim  within  sixty  days  of  its
becoming due failing which it shall stand
Reckoning the date in case of T.A. claims
by retired Government servants appearing
in a Court of Law for defending himself.—
Retired  Government  servants  become
eligible  for  reimbursement  of  Travelling
appearing  in  court  of  law  for  defending
himself only when the judgement relating
to his honorable acquittal is pronounced
by  the  court.  In  such  cases  the  date  of
pronouncements of the judgement shall be
the  reference  point  for  submission  and
reimbursement of his T.A claim.
Rule 292 Due  date  of  Leave  Travel  Concession
claim. Leave Travel Concession claim of a
government  servant  shall  fall  due  for
payment on the date succeeding the date
of completion of return journey. The time
limit for submission of the claims shall be
as under :-
in  respect  of
In case advance drawn : Within thirty
days of the due date.
In  case  advance  not  drawn  :  Within
sixty days of the due date.
In  case  of  (i)  above  if  the  claim  is  not
submitted  within  one  month  of  the  due
date,  the  amount  of  advance  shall  be
recovered but the Government employee
shall  be  allowed  to  submit  the  claim  as
under (ii) above. In case of failure to submit
the  claim  in  both  the  cases  within  the
prescribed time lines, the claim shall stand
Rule 293  Due  date  of  Over  Time  Allowance
claims.  A  claim  for  overtime  allowance
shall fall due for payment on first day of the
month  following  the  month  to  which  the
overtime  allowance  relates.  The  claim
shall stand forfeited if not submitted within
60 days of the due date.
Rule 294 Due date of a withheld increment.   In
the  absence  of  any  specific  order
withholding an ordinary increment under
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 12
the  purpose  of
FR 24 before the date on which it falls due
for payment, the period of one year should
be counted from the date on which it falls
due and not with reference to the date on
which the Increment Certificate is signed
by the competent authority. Even where an
should  be  reckoned  from  the  date  on
which it falls due after taking into account
the period for which it is withheld.
(1) Arrear Claims. Any arrear claim of a
Government  servant  which  is  preferred
within two years of its becoming due shall
be settled by the Drawing and Disbursing
Officer  or  Accounts  Officer,  as  the  case
may be, after usual checks.
provisions,  the date on which the claim is
presented  at  the  office  of  disbursement
should  be  considered  to  be  the  date  on
which it is preferred.
(i)  A  claim  of  a  government  servant
which has been allowed to remain in
abeyance for a period exceeding two
years,  should  be  investigated  by  the
Head of the Department concerned. If
the  Head  of  Department  is  satisfied
about the genuineness of the claim on
the basis of the supporting documents
and  there  are  valid  reasons  for  the
delay  in  preferring  the  claims,  the
claims should be paid by the Drawing
and  Disbursing  Officer  or  Accounts
Officer,  as  the  case  may  be,  after
(ii)  A Head of Department may delegate
the powers, conferred on him by sub
rule  (i)  above  to  the  subordinate
authority  competent  to  appoint  the
Government  servant  by  whom  the
claim is made.
(1)   Procedure for dealing with time-
Even a time barred claim of a Government
servant,  shall  be  entertained  by  the
concerned  authority  provided  that  the
concerned  authority  is  satisfied  that  the
claimant  was  prevented  from  submitting
his claim within the prescribed time limit
on  account  of  causes  and  circumstance
beyond his control.
(2) A time barred claim referred to in Rule
296  (1)  shall  be  paid  with  the  express
sanction of the Government issued with the
previous  consent  of  the  Internal  Finance
Wing  of  the  Ministry  or  Department
Time barred claims of persons not in
Government  service.  The  provisions  of
Rule 289 to Rule 296 shall apply mutatis
to  arrear  claims  preferred
against  Government  by  persons  not  in
Rule 298  Retrospective sanctions.    Retrospective
effect  shall  not  be  given  by  competent
authorities to sanctions relating to revision
of  pay  or  grant  of  concessions  to
Government  servants,  except
special  circumstances  with  the  previous
consent of the Ministry of Finance.
Rule 299 Currency of sanction of Provident Fund
advance/withdrawal.  A  sanction  to  an
advance  or  a  non-refundable  part
withdrawal  from  Provident  Fund  shall,
unless it is specifically renewed, lapse on
the expiry of a period of three month. This
will,  however,  not  apply  to  withdrawals
effected in instalments. In such cases the
sanction  accorded  for  non-refundable
withdrawals  from  Provident  Fund  will
remain valid up to a particular date to be
specified  by  the  sanctioning  authority  in
the sanction order itself.
REFUND OF REVENUE
Rule 300  Sanctions  of  refunds  of  revenue.  All
sanctions  to  refunds  of  revenue  shall  be
r e g u l a t e d   b y
t h e   o r d e r s   o f   a n
Administrator  or  of  the  departmental
authority, as the case may be, according to
the  provisions  of  the  rules  and  orders
contained  in  the  departmental  manuals
( 1 )   C o m m u n i c a t i o n   o f   r e f u n d
sanctions  to  audit.  The  sanction  to  a
refund of revenue may either be given on
the  bill  itself  or  quoted  therein  and  a
certified copy of the same attached to the
bill in the latter case.
(2) Suitable note of refund to be made
in original Cash Book entry and other
documents. Before a refund of revenue is
made, the original demand or realization,
as the case may be, must be linked and a
reference to the refund should be recorded
against the original entry in the Cash Book
Chapter – 12
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
or  other  documents  so  as  to  make  the
entertainment  of  a  double  or  erroneous
Rule  301 (3)  Remission  of  revenue  before
collection  is  not  refund.  Remissions  of
revenue allowed before collection are to
be treated as reduction of demands and
not as refunds.
(4)  Refunds  not  regarded  as
expenditure for allotment.   Refunds  of
revenues are not regarded as expenditure
for purposes of grants or appropriation.
(5)  Competent  authority  in  case  of
credits  wrongly  classified.  In  cases
where revenue is credited to a wrong head
of  account  or  credited  wrongly  under
competent  to  order  refund  of  revenue
shall,  in  such  cases,  be  the  authority  to
the  original  receipts  correctly
Rule 302 Compensation  for  accidental  loss  of
property.   No  compensation
accidental loss of property shall be paid to
an officer except with the approval of the
Ministry of Finance. Compensation will not
ordinarily be granted to an officer for any
loss  to  his  property  which  is  caused  by
floods, cyclone, earthquake or any other
natural  calamity  or  which  is  due  to  an
ordinary accident, which may occur to any
citizen, for example, loss by theft or as a
result of a railway accident or fire etc. The
mere fact that at the time of the accident,
the Government servant is technically on
duty or is living in Government quarters in
which  he  is  forced  to  reside  for  the
performance  of  his  duties  will  not  be
considered as a sufficient ground for the
grant of compensation.
DEBT AND MISCELLANEOUS
OBLIGATIONS OF GOVERNMENT
Public  Debt.  The  public  debt  raised  by
government by issue of securities shall be
managed  by  the  Reserve  Bank.  The
Reserve Bank shall also manage securities
created and issued under any other law or
rule having the force of law, provided such
law  or  rule  provides  specifically  for  their
management by the Reserve Bank.
(1)    Provident  Funds.  The  procedure
relating to the recovery of, subscriptions to
and withdrawals from, the Provident Funds
established  under  accordance  with  the
provisions of the respective Provident Fund
Rules.  Following  instructions  should  be
carefully  observed  by  the  Head  of  the
Offices  for  correct  preparation  of  the
Provident Fund schedules:-
(i) A complete list of subscribers to each
fund  should  be  maintained  in  each
disbursing  office  in  the  form  of  the
(ii) Each  new  subscriber  should  be
list  and  any
subsequent changes resulting from his
transfer or in the rate of subscription
etc. clearly indicated in the schedule.
(iii) When a subscriber dies, quits service
or is transferred to another office, full
particulars should be duly recorded in
(iv)  In the case of transfer of a subscriber
to another office, the necessary note of
transfer should be made in the list of
both the offices.
(v) From this list the monthly schedule to
be appended to the pay bill should be
prepared  and  tallied  with  recoveries
made before the submission of the bill
Similar  provisions  shall  also  be  made
to  New  Pension
(2)    Crediting  of  Interest.  The  deposit
funds  on  the
Government  book  will  be  credited  with
interest at such rates and at such intervals
as  may  be  prescribed  by  Ministry  of
Finance in each case.
(1)  Maintenance  of  a  register  for
recovery  of  Postal  Life  Insurance
Premia.  All  drawing  officers  should
maintain in Form (GFR 20) record of Postal
Life Insurance policy (PLI) holders.
(2) The register should be kept upto date,
the names of the policy holders should be
noted in alphabetical order according to
leaving  sufficient  space
between two entries to enable newcomers
names being inserted in the right place.
(i) A separate entry should be made in the
register for each policy in the case of a
policy  holder  having  more  than  one
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 12
(ii) On receipt of an intimation from the
Director,  Postal  Life
Kolkata, about the issue of a policy in
favour of a subscriber authorizing the
recovery from pay, or on receipt of a
Last  Pay  Certificate  in  respect  of  the
subscriber  transferred  from  another
office,  the  Drawing  Officer  should
make a note of the particulars of the
policy in the register. The name of the
office from which the subscriber has
been transferred should invariably be
the  remarks  column.
Wherever  a  subscriber  is  transferred
to  another  office  or  his  policy  is
discharged,  his  name  should  be
scored  out  from  the  register  giving
(iii) After  the  preparation  of  the  monthly
pay  bill,  the  amount  of  recovery  on
account of PLI premium shown in the
bill should be posted in the monthly
column  in  the  register  with  proper
reference to the bills or the vouchers.
The  fact  of  excess  or  non-recovery
should be briefly noted in the remarks
column.  Extracts  should  be  attached
to the relevant bills in support of the
recoveries.  While  taking  extracts  it
should  be  seen  that  the  names  of
those insurants from whom recoveries
were made in previous months but no
recoveries  have  been  made  during
the current month either on account of
transfer or discharge of that policy or
on account of leave salary being not
drawn  or  the  official  being  on  leave
without pay, should be included in the
current  month's  schedule  and
necessary remarks noted against their
(iv) Similarly, the remarks 'New Policy' or
Transferred from…………...…. Office
should  be  given  in  the  schedule
against the names of insurant entered
for  the  first  time  in  current  month.
Reasons for short or excess recovery
should be noted briefly in the remarks
column.  In  short,  schedule  of  Postal
attached  to  the  bills,  would  be  a
record not only of those from whom
the  recovery  has  actually  been
affected but also of those from whom
recovery was being affected previously
but has not been affected.
(1)  Furnishing  of  security  by
Government servants handling cash.
to  any  general  or  special
instructions prescribed by Government in
this  behalf,  every  Government  servant,
who actually handles cash or stores shall
be  required  to  furnish  security,  for  such
amount  and  in  such  form  as  Central
Government  or  an  Administrator  may
prescribe according to circumstances and
local  conditions  in  each  case,  and  to
execute  a  security  bond  setting  forth  the
conditions  under  which  Government  will
hold the security and may ultimately refund
or appropriate it.
Rule  306 (2)  The amount of security to be obtained
from  a  Government  servant  shall  be
determined  on  the  basis  of  actual  cash
handled  which  shall  not  include  account
payee cheques and drafts.
(3) Security should be furnished in the form
of a Fidelity Bond in GFR 17, the security
bond should be executed in Form GFR 14.
The  Administration  shall  see  that  the
government  servant  pays  the  premia
necessary to keep the Bond alive, for which
the  government  servant  shall  submit
premium receipt in time. If the government
servant fails to submit the premium receipt
he  shall  not  be  allowed  to  perform  the
duties of his post and he shall be dealt with
in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  his
A  Government  servant  who  is
officiating against the post of another cash
or  store  handling  Government  servant
shall be required to furnish the full amount
of the security prescribed for the post. The
Ministry  or  Department  of  Central
Government,  Administrators  and  the
Comptroller  and  Auditor  General    in
respect of persons serving in Indian Audit
and Accounts Department may, however,
exempt a Government servant officiating
in  such  a  short-term  vacancy  from
furnishing  security  if  the  circumstances
warrant such exemption provided that -
they are satisfied that there is no risk
Chapter – 12
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(ii) such exemption is granted only in the
case  of  a  permanent  Government
(iii) the period of officiating arrangement
does not exceed four months.
Rule 307 Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in
Rule 275, security need not be furnished
in cases of –
(a) Government  servants  who  are
entrusted  with  the  custody  of  stores,
which in the opinion of the competent
authority are not considerable.
basis  of  mutually  agreeable  terms  and
conditions or in exchange for equal value
land or payment of value of land or cost of
Transfer  of  buildings  and
superstructures  on  land  shall  be  treated
similar  to  transfer  of  land.  Transfer  of
buildings and superstructures on land vide
above  shall  be  at  the  present  day  cost
minus  depreciation  of  these  structure(s)
standing  on  the  land.  Valuation  for  this
purpose  shall  be  obtained  from  the
Central  Public  Works  Department  at  the
time of transfer.
(4) The allotment of land to, and recovery
of cost of buildings from the Public Sector
Undertakings shall be at 'market value' as
defined in paragraph - 2 of Appendix - 7.
(b) Government  servants,  who  are
entrusted  with  the  custody  of  office
furniture, stationery and other articles
required for office management, if the
Head of Office is satisfied about the
(c) Librarian and Library Staff.
(d) Drivers of Government vehicles.
Retention of Security. A security deposit
taken from Government servant shall be
retained for at least six months from the
date  he  vacates  his  post,  but  a  security
bond  shall  be  retained  permanently  or
until  it  is  certain  there  is  no  further
necessity for keeping it.
TRANSFER OF LAND AND BUILDINGS
Save as otherwise provided in any law, rule
or  order  relating  to  the  transfer  of
Government  land,  no  land  belonging  to
the  Government  or  any  of  its  bodies,
including autonomous bodies, PSUs, etc.
shall be sold without previous sanction of
(1)    Transfer  of  Land.  Transfer  of  land
from  a  Union  Territory  to  a  Central
Government Department (i.e. Ministry or
Department  of  the  Union  Government
including  Defence,  Railways,  and  Posts
and Telegraphs) or vice versa shall be on
'no profit no loss' basis.
(2)  Transfer of land from one Department
of  the  Government  (as  defined  in  Rule
309) to another shall be on 'no profit no
‘No  profit  no  loss’  as  indicated  at  rules
310(1)  and  310(2)  above  does  not
necessarily  mean  transfer  being  effected
with  ‘zero  cost’.  Transfer  can  be  on  the
Rule  310 (5)  The  transfer  of  land  and  building
b e t w e e n
t h e   U n i o n   a n d   S t a t e
Governments  shall  be  regulated  by  the
provisions of Articles 294, 295, 298 and
299  of  the  Constitution  and  subsidiary
Government  which  are  reproduced  as
Appendix - 7.
CHARITABLE ENDOWMENTS AND
Rule 311 Detailed instructions relating to Charitable
Endowments  and  other  Trusts  are
embodied in Appendix -8.
(1)  Financial  arrangements  between
Central Government and Local Bodies.
Unless  any  one  of
arrangements  is  authorized  by  specific
orders of Government, a local body will be
required to pay,in advance, the estimated
amount of charges to be incurred or cost of
services  to  be  rendered,  by  Government
on account of the fund:-
payments made by Government are
debited to the balances of the deposits
of the local fund with government; or
(ii) payments are made as advances from
public  funds  in  the  first  instance
pending recovery from the local funds.
contained  in  Rule  281  (1)  in  case  of
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 12
emergency  such  as  epidemics  pre-
payment  will  not  be  insisted  upon  from
local bodies for supply of medicines from
Medical  Stores  Depots  of  the  Ministry  of
Any amount or loan not paid on due date
to Government by a local body, may be
adjusted  from  any  non-statutory  grant
sanctioned for payment to it.
Taxes etc. collected by Government on
behalf  of  Local  Bodies.  Proceeds  of
taxes,  fines  or  other  revenues  levied  or
collected by Government for or on behalf
of local bodies shall not be appropriated
direct to a local fund without passing them
through  the  Consolidated  Fund  unless
expressly authorised by law.
Payments  to  Local  Bodies.  Subject  to
provision  of  relevant  act  and  rules,
payments  to  local  bodies  in  respect  of
revenue  and  other  moneys  raised  or
received  by  Government  on  their  behalf
will be made in such manner and on such
date, as may be authorized by general or
special orders of Government.
Rule 316 Audit  of  Account  of  Local  Bodies.
Subject to the provisions of any law made
under Article 149 of the Constitution, the
accounts  of  local  bodies,  other  non-
Government bodies, or institutions will be
audited by the Indian Audit and Accounts
Department  under  such
conditions  as  may  be  agreed  upon
Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
Rule 317   Audit  Fees.  Audit  fees  on  the  basis  of
daily  rates  prescribed  by  Government  in
consultation  with  the  Comptroller  and
Auditor General of India from time to time
shall be charged by the Indian Audit and
Accounts Department for the audit of local
and  other  non-Government
excluding funds for the audit of which the
rates of fees recoverable are prescribed by
law or by rules having the force of law.
Provided  that  nothing  contained  in  this
rule shall be held to override any special
instructions of Government exempting any
particular local body or institution wholly
or partially from the payment of audit fees.
In  the  case  of  Government  Companies,
the recovery of the cost of Supplementary
Audit conducted under Section 143(6) of
Companies Act, 2013 as amended from
the  Government  and
time  to  time,  should  be  waived  in  those
cases  where  the  audit  is  done  by  the
Comptroller and Auditor General through
his own departmental staff but should be
enforced in cases where the Comptroller
and Auditor General employs professional
auditors for the Supplementary Audit.
F i n a n c i a l
t r a n s a c t i o n s   b e t w e e n
Government  and  local  bodies  shall  be
rounded off to the nearest Rupee.
MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS
(1)   Destruction of Records.  Subject  to
any  general  or  special  rules  or  orders
applicable  to  particular  departments  as
prescribed in their departmental manuals,
no  Government  record  connected  with
accounts  shall  be  destroyed  except  in
the  provisions  of
(2) All the records prescribed for retention
in Appendix - 9, if maintained in electronic
form should mandatorily have a back up
and adhere strictly to the retention period
for  verification  and
certification on a monthly/annual basis as
prescribed  under  relevant  rules  should
also be ensured.
CONTINGENT & MISCELLANEOUS
Rules  relating  to  contingent  expenditure
are available at Rule 13 of the Delegation
of the Financial Powers Rules and Rules 96
to 98 of the Government of India (Receipts
and Payments) Rules, 1983.
Rule 322  Permanent  Advance  or  Imprest.
Permanent advance or Imprest for meeting
day  to  day  contingent  and  emergent
expenditure  may  be  granted  to  a
government  servant  by  the  Head  of  the
Department  in  consultation  with  Internal
Finance  Wing,  keeping  the  amount  of
advance  to  the  minimum  required  for
functioning.  Procedures  for
maintenance  of  permanent  advance  or
Imprest are available in para 10.12 of the
Civil Accounts Manual.
(1)    Advances  for  Contingent  and
Miscellaneous purpose. The Head of the
Chapter – 12
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Office  may  sanction  advances  to  a
Government  Servant  for  purchase  of
goods  or  services  or  any  other  special
purpose  needed  for  the  management  of
the  office,  subject
(i) The  amount  of  expenditure  being
higher  than  the  Permanent  Advance
available, cannot be met out of it.
(ii) The purchase or other purpose cannot
be  managed  under
procedures,  envisaging  post-
procurement payment system.
(iii) The amount of advance should not be
more than the power delegated to the
Head of the Office for the purpose.
(iv) The  Head  of  the  Office  shall  be
responsible  for  timely  recovery  or
adjustment of the advance.
(2)  The  adjustment  bill,  along  with
balance if any, shall be submitted by the
government servant within fifteen days of
the drawal of advance, failing which the
advance  or  balance  shall  be  recovered
from his next salary(ies).
The Ministry or Department may sanction
the grant of an advance to a Government
Pleader  in  connection  with  law  suits,  to
which  Government  is  a  party,  up  to  the
maximum  limit  of  Rupees  twenty-five
thousand  at  a  time.  The  amount  so
advanced should be adjusted at the time
of settlement of Counsel’s fee bills.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
[See Rule 37 ]
INSTRUCTIONS FOR REGULATING THE ENFORCEMENT
OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR LOSSES, ETC.
1. The cardinal principle  governing  the assessment  of  responsibility  is that, every Government  officer should
exercise  the  same  vigilance  in  respect  of  expenditure  from  public  fund  generally  as  a  person  of  ordinary
prudence would exercise in respect of the expenditure and the custody of his own money. While, the competent
authority may, in special cases, condone an officer's honest errors of judgement involving financial loss if the
officer can show that he has acted in good faith and done his best up to the limits of his ability and experience,
personal liability shall be strictly enforced against all officers who are dishonest, careless or negligent in the
duties entrusted to them.
In cases where loss is due to delinquencies of subordinate officials and where it appears that this has been
facilitated by laxity of supervision on the part of a superior officer, the latter shall also be called strictly to account
and his personal liability in the matter carefully assessed.
(a) The question of enforcing pecuniary liability shall always be considered as well as the question of other
forms of disciplinary action. In deciding the degree of an officer's pecuniary liability, it will be necessary to
look not only to the circumstances of the case but also to the financial circumstances of the officer, since it
should be recognized that the penalty should not be such as to impair his future efficiency.
In particular if the loss has occurred through fraud, every endeavour should be made to recover  the whole
amount lost from the guilty persons and if laxity of supervision has facilitated the fraud, the supervising
officer  at  fault  may  properly  be  penalized  either  directly  by  requiring  him  to  make  good  in  money  a
sufficient proportion of the loss or indirectly by reduction or stoppage of his increments of pay.
It  should  always  be  considered  whether  the  depreciated  value  of  the  Government  property  or
equipment lost, damaged or destroyed by the carelessness of individuals entrusted with their care should
be  recovered  from  the  delinquent  official.  The depreciated value  of  the  stores  may  be calculated by
applying the 20% of depreciation in the case of vehicles, including cycles, and 15% in the case of calculating
machines,  on  the  reduced  balance  every  year.  The  amount  to  be  recovered  may  be  limited  to  the
Government servant's capacity to pay.
4. When a pensionable Government servant is concerned in any irregularity or loss, the authority investigating the
case shall bear in mind the provisions contained in Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules 1972 as amended
from time to time and immediately inform the Audit Officer and/or the Accounts Officer, as the case may be,
responsible for reporting on his title to Pension or Death-Cum-Retirement Gratuity, and the authority competent
to sanction Pension or Death-Cum-Retirement Gratuity and it will be the duty of the latter to make a  note of the
information and see that the Gratuity or Death-Cum-Retirement Gratuity is not paid before a conclusion is
arrived at as regards the Government servant's culpability and final orders are issued thereon.
5. The fact that Government servants who were guilty of frauds or irregularities have been demobilized or have
retired and have thus escaped punishment, should not be made a justification for absolving those who are also
guilty but who still remain in service.
It is of the greatest importance to avoid delay in the investigation of any loss due to fraud, negligence, financial
irregularity,  etc.  Should  the  administrative  authority  require  the  assistance  of  the  Audit  Officer  and/or  the
Accounts Officer, as the case may be, in pursuing the investigation, he may call on that officer for all vouchers
and other documents that may be relevant to the investigation; and if the investigation is complex and he needs
the assistance of an expert Audit Officer/ Accounts Officer to unravel it, he should apply forthwith for that
assistance to Government which will then negotiate with Audit Officer and/or the Accounts Officer concerned
for  the  services  of  an  investigating  staff.  Thereafter,  the  administrative  authority  and  the  Audit  /Accounts
authority shall be personally responsible within their respective spheres, for the expeditious conduct of the
enquiry.  In  any  case  in  which  it  appears  that  recourse  to  judicial  proceedings  is  likely,  the  Special  Police
Establishment or the State Police should be associated with the investigation.
7.  Depending upon the results of the inquiry, departmental proceedings and/or prosecution shall be instituted at
the earliest moment against the delinquent officials concerned and conducted with strict adherence to the
Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, and other instructions prescribed in this
regard by Government.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
[See Rule 52 ]
PROCEDURE FOR PREPARATION OF
DETAILED ESTIMATES OF RECEIPTS
1.  Revenue receipts. - These comprise (i) Central taxes, duties and cesses administered by the Central Board of
Direct Taxes and the Central Board of Excise and Customs; (ii) local taxes and duties and other receipts in
relation to the Union Territories without Legislature; (iii) interest receipts of loans and advances by the Central
Government as also interest charged to commercial departments, etc., (iv) notional receipts from adjustments
based on principles of accounting like grant assistance from foreign Governments or International institutions;
and (v) all other revenue receipts including dividends on equity investments of the Central Government, cesses
collected by the Ministries and Departments, etc.
2.  Capital Receipts. These comprise (i) Internal debt (market loan, treasury bills, etc.); (ii) External debt; (iii)
Repayment of loans and advances made by the Central Government; (iv) Disinvestment Receipts (v) Other
(1) Estimates of receipts of Central Taxes and Duties and External Aid receipts are prepared within the Ministry of
Finance by the Central Board of Direct Taxes, the Central Board of Excise and Customs and the Controller of Aid
Accounts and Audit. Estimates of internal debt (market loans) receipts are framed by the Budget Division.
(2) Estimates of revenue receipts of the Union Territory Administrations will be furnished to the Ministry of
Finance by the concerned Audit Officer / Accounts Officer wherever departmentalization of accounts has not
taken place and by the Controller of Accounts of the Union Territory Administrations where departmentalization
of accounts has been introduced.
(3) Estimates of receipts in all other cases will be prepared by Controller of Accounts of each Department after
obtaining necessary data by the 30th November from the various organizations / field units and such scrutiny as
may be necessary in the light of policy decisions and other post Budget developments.
4.  Estimates will be furnished to the Ministry of Finance in prescribed forms (GFR 2, 2-A and 2-B) by the prescribed
date, each year for the ensuing Budget.
(1) In preparing the Revised Estimates, while previous year's actuals and current year's trends will be material
factors to review the original Budget Estimates, special attention should be devoted to making as realistic an
estimate as possible of receipts which are likely to materialize during the rest of the financial year.
(2) In framing the Budget Estimates for the ensuing year, the estimating authorities should exercise utmost care.
While all receipts which can be foreseen in the light of latest trends, decisions and developments must be
provided for, care should be taken to ensure that undue optimism does not influence these estimates. Similarly,
where the receipts have a seasonal character, due note should be taken thereof in preparing the estimates.
(3) Receipts by way of recoveries from Central Government Ministries / Departments, are to be excluded in
preparing  Receipt  Estimates.  Other  recoveries  (from  the  State  and  Union  Territory  Governments,  foreign
Governments,  companies  and  statutory  bodies,  individuals,  etc.)  will,  however,  be  included  in  the  Receipt
(4) Estimates of receipts by way of interest on loans and advances will be based on the terms of the loans
sanctioned, as entered in the Loan Registers, including defaults, if any. The estimates should be realistic; that is
to say, that the estimates should reflect not merely what is due but what is likely to be realized during the year
together with the reasons for non-recovery of the difference between receipts due and assumed in the estimates.
In the case of Public Sector Units, interest receipts expected from their internal resources should be distinguished
from notional recoveries offset by corresponding expenditure provisions in the form of subsidies and loans.
Similarly, where repayments due are refinanced by further loans or by conversion of past loans into equity, the
details should be furnished.
(5) In reporting estimates of receipts by way of foreign grant assistance in cash or in kind, care should be taken
to classify foreign grant receipts in cash under the Major Head '1605 External Grant Assistance' and those in the
form of commodities under the Major Head '1606 Aid Materials and Equipment'. In the case of commodities
grants, identical provision will be made in expenditure estimates under the Major head '3606 Aid Materials and
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Equipment's' (both as debits to represent the notional payment therefor and as credits - recoveries in reductions
of expenditure - to reflect the counter-balancing entries), as well as under the final functional Head of Account
showing the final destination and use of the aid materials and equipment. (Refer to Form GFR 2A)
NOTE.   For utilization of cash grants, provision in expenditure estimates under the final functional Heads of
Account will be necessary.
(6) In reporting the estimates, the estimating authorities should confine their estimates to those items of receipts
which are to be accounted for finally in their own accounts and ultimately in the accounts of the Ministry/
Department  to  which  they  are  subordinate.  All  other  receipts/recoveries  entering  the  accounts  of  another
Ministry/ Department should be communicated to the concerned Ministry/Department for consolidation in their
estimates (e.g., receipts of CGHS contributions and rent recoveries in respect of Government accommodation).
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
[ Rule 52]
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF DETAILED
ESTIMATES OF EXPENDITURE FROM THE CONSOLIDATED FUND
1.   For purpose of Budget Estimates, expenditure from the Consolidated Fund –with the merger of Plan and Non-
Plan from Budget 2017-18 will comprise of expenditure on revenue account and on capital account including
loans and advances, and shown in the separate categories as applicable, comprising of I. Central Expenditure:
(i) Secretariat Expenditure; (ii) Central Sector Schemes and (iii) Other Central Expenditure and II. Transfers: (i)
Centrally Sponsored Schemes (ii) Finance Commission Transfers and (iii) Other Transfers.
A. GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR PREPARING EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES
2.   To facilitate appropriate  scrutiny and consolidation of  Expenditure  Estimates for reporting  to the Ministry of
Finance,  the  Financial  Adviser  in  each  Ministry  /  Department  will  obtain  detailed  estimates  and  other
supporting data from each of the estimating authorities under the control of the Ministry / Department, in
appropriate forms, sufficiently in advance.
3.   The framing of the Revised Estimates for the current year should always precede estimation for the ensuing year.
The  Revised  Estimates  should  be  framed  with  great  care  to  include  only  those  items  which  are  likely  to
materialize for payment during the current year, in the light of (i) actuals so far recorded during the current year,
compared with the actuals for corresponding period of the last and previous years, (ii) seasonal character or
otherwise  of  the  nature  of  expenditure,  (iii)  sanctions  for  expenditure  and  orders  of  appropriation  or
re- appropriation already issued or contemplated and (iv) any other relevant factor, decision or development.
The Budget Estimate for the ensuing year should likewise be prepared on the basis of what is expected to be
paid, under proper sanction, during the ensuring year, including arrears of previous years, if any. Due attention
to considerations of economy must be paid and while all inescapable and foreseeable expenditures should be
provided for, care should be taken that the estimate is not influenced by undue optimism.
4.  No lump sum provision will be made in the Budget except where urgent measures are to be provided for
meeting  emergent  situations  or  for  meeting  preliminary  expenses  on  a  project/scheme  which  has  been
accepted in principle for being taken up in the financial year. In latter cases Budget provision will be limited to
the requirements of preliminary expenses and for such initial outlay, as, for example, on collection of material,
recruitment of skeleton staff, etc.
Provision for a 'token' demand should not be made in the Budget Estimates for the purpose of seeking approval
in principle for big schemes without the full financial implications being worked out and got approved by the
appropriate authorities. In accordance with instructions contained in Paragraph (viii) of Appendix (5), a 'token'
demand can be made during the course of a year for a project / scheme when the details thereof are ready and
funds are also available for undertaking it but it cannot be started without Parliament's approval, it being in the
nature of a 'New Service/New Instrument of Services'.
5.   All estimates should be prepared on gross basis and 'voted' and 'charged' portions must be shown separately;
even  expenditure  met  partly  or  fully  from  receipts  taken  in  reduction  of  such  expenditure  or  those
counterbalanced by receipts credited as revenue to the Consolidated Fund, must be reported in such estimates
on gross basis. Care should also be taken to ensure that all notional receipts reported in 'Receipt Estimates'
(such as interest receipts fully or partly subsidized, loan repayment receipts partly or fully refinanced through
further loans or conversions into equity, receipts of foreign grant assistance in the form of commodities or
material, etc.) are properly matched by adequate provisions in expenditure estimates.
6. The estimates of expenditure should include all items which are fully accounted for in the accounts of the
Ministry/Departments to which the estimating authority is subordinate; they shall also cover expenditure, if any,
in Union Territories without Legislature, whether provided for in the demands of the said Ministry / Department
or in the 'Area' demand of the concerned Union Territory. Estimates of 'Works Expenditure', if any, against the
provisions in the demands of the Ministry of Urban Development, as well as expenditure on pensions (including
commutation payments, gratuity payments, pension contributions, etc.) interest payments, loans and advances
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
to Government servants, etc., which are provided for in the centralized Grants/Appropriations controlled by the
Ministry of Finance should be furnished to the Ministry of Urban Development and the Ministry of Finance.
7. The estimate of establishment charges should be framed taking into account the trends over preceding three
years and other relevant factors like changes in rates of pay, allowances, number of posts and their filling and
the economy instructions issued by the Ministry of Finance from time to time.
8. Expenditure estimates will be prepared with full accounts classification, i.e., Major/Sub-Major Head, Minor
Head, Sub-Head, Detailed Head and Object Head of Account. The correctness of accounts classification must
be ensured by the Principal Chief Controller / Chief Controller/ Controller of Accounts in each case. Doubts, if
any, may be clarified beforehand in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, Budget Division and Controller
General  of  Accounts.  The  relevant  Grant  number  and  title  of  Appropriation  should  also  be  mentioned  to
facilitate identification of the provision in Budget Estimates for the current year.
9. Unless otherwise indicated by the Ministry of Finance, estimates (both Revised Estimates for the current year and
Budget Estimates for the ensuing year) should reach the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs,
Budget Division, by the date prescribed by the Ministry of Finance, each year, in triplicate in Form GFR 4, a
separate form being used for each Major Head of Account.
10. To facilitate appreciation and scrutiny of the estimates, any major variations between the Budget and Revised
Estimates for the current year and also between the Revised Estimates for the current year and Budget Estimates
for the ensuing year should be explained cogently. In particular, all provisions for subsidy, capital investment or
loan to a Public Sector Undertaking, must be explained by indicating their purpose and the extent to which they
are intended to cover losses, working capital needs, debt or interest liabilities of the undertaking.
11. Wherever the proposed estimates attract the limitations of 'New Service/New Instrument of Service', the fact
must be specifically highlighted. The guidelines to be followed in this regard are indicated in Annexure - I to this
Appendix. For all 'new' schemes, other than purely 'works' projects, the estimates proposed should be supported
by  details  set  out  in  Annexure  -  II  to  this  Appendix.  In  the  case  of  provisions  of  'Grants-in-aid'  to  non-
Government entities, the full purpose thereof and the nature of the grants, whether recurring or non-recurring,
should also be indicated.
12. All provisions for transfer of Government assets to Public Sector Undertaking and other non-Government
entities must  also  be  highlighted,  indicating  whether  the transfer is by way  of  grants or by way  of  equity
investment or loan. Similarly, in the case of nationalization or take-over of any private sector assets, the related
provisions in estimates must be supported by full details, such as the effective date of take-over, the agreed
compensation  amount  and  the  manner  of  its  payment,  etc.  In  cases  of  takeover,  where  the  assets  are
simultaneously transferred to a Public Sector Undertaking, it must be ensured that the estimates provide for (i)
payment of compensation for the take-over, (ii) for transfer of assets to the Public Sector Undertaking, by means
of recovery of compensation payment to be taken in reduction of expenditure, and (iii) provisions for equity or
to the Public Sector Undertaking.
B. SCHEME RELATED EXPENDITURE ESTIMATES
13. The  Budget  Division  through  the  yearly  Budget  Circular  will  prescribe  the  form  and  the  manner  in  which
proposals are required to be submitted to them for determining the scheme allocations,(both Central Sector
Schemes and Centrally Sponsored Schemes) for the ensuing year. The Financial Adviser in each Ministry /
Department of the Central Government will accordingly call for requisite data from the estimating authorities,
public sector and other enterprises under the control of the Ministry / Department, etc. The approved allocations
for Central Sector and Centrally Sponsored Schemes will be communicated by the Ministry of Finance to the
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Central  Ministries  /  Department.  Ministries/  Departments  will  finalize  the  Statement  of  Budget  Estimates,
indicating the total outlay approved for each scheme / organization and the extent to which it is to be met from
extra-budget resources and from provisions in the Demands for Grants.
14. Subject to such directions as may be issued by the Ministry of Finance from time to time, the Revised Estimates for
the current year and Budget Estimates of the ensuing year, in respect of Scheme provisions, are to be sent to
the Ministry of Finance in Form GFR 7. For furnishing these estimates, instructions for preparation and
submission of Other than scheme Expenditure Estimates will apply to the extent relevant; in addition, the
following points should also be borne in mind :-
(i) Such part of the approved budgetary support for Scheme outlay as relates to 'works expenditure' and
has been accepted by the Ministry of Urban Development for inclusion in their Demands for Grants
should be excluded by the other Ministries / Departments in reporting the estimates to the Ministry of
Finance in Form GFR 4.
In the case of, provisions for equity investments  and loans to public sector and other enterprises,  as
well as those for grants-in-aid,  specific schemes,  for which the outlay is provided  and the extent for
each of them is also to be indicated clearly.
(iii) Provisions  for Scheme  expenditure  on Central  Sector Schemes  and Centrally  Sponsored  Schemes,
including such expenditures in Union Territories,   are to be included in the relevant demand of the
Administrative  Ministry/ Department and not in 'Area' Demand of the concerned Union Territory.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
ANNEXURE –I TO APPENDIX-3
(Refer: Ministry of Finance, Budget Division's OM No. F.1(23)-B(AC)/2005 dated 25.05.2006
[ See Paragraph 11 of Appendix – 3/Rule 63 ]
FINANCIAL LIMITS TO BE OBSERVED DETERMINING CASES
RELATING TO “NEW SERVICE”/NEW INSTRUMENT OF SERVICE
Nature of Transaction
Limits upto which expenditure can be
met by re-appropriation of savings in
a Grant subject to report to Parliament
I. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
A. Departmental Undertakings
(i) Setting up a new
Limits beyond which prior
approval of Parliament is
required for expenditure from
the Consolidated Fund
undertaking, or taking up
a new activity by an
(ii) Additional Investment in
an existing undertaking
Above Rs.2.50 crore but not
exceeding Rs. 5 crore.
Above Rs. 5 crore
B. Public Sector Companies/Corporations
(i) Setting up of a new
Company or splitting up
of an existing Company,
or amalgamation of two
or more Companies,
or taking up a new activity
by an existing Company
(ii) Additional investment in/
loans to an existing
a) Where there is no
b) Where Budget Provision
exists for investment
Paid up capital
of the Company
(i) Upto Rs. 50 crore
Above Rs.50 lakhs but
not exceeding Rs.1crore
Above Rs. 1 crore
20% of appropriation
already voted or
whichever is less
(ii) Above Rs.50 crore 20% of appropriation
already voted or
whichever is less
Above 20% of appropriation
already voted or
whichever is less.
Above 20% of appropriation
already voted or
whichever is less.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
C. All bodies or authorities within the administrative control/management of Central
Government or substantially financed by the Central Government.
Upto 10% of the appropriation already
voted or Rs. 10 crore, whichever is less
More than 10% over the
appropriation already voted by
Parliament or Rs.10 crore.
whichever is less
Note: Where a lumpsum provision is made for providing 'Loans' under a particular scheme, the details of
substantial apportionment (10% of lumpsum or Rs. 1 crore, whichever is higher) should be reported to
Parliament. In the case of lumpsum provision of loans to States, the State-wise distribution should be
reported to Parliament.
Nature of transaction
Limits upto which expenditure can be
met by re-appropriation of savings in
a Grant subject to report to Parliament
D. Expenditure on new
Works (Land, Buildings
Above Rs.50 lakhs but not exceeding
Rs. 2.5 crore or not exceeding 10% of
the appropriation already voted,
whichever is less.
II   REVENUE EXPENDITURE
E. Grants-in-aid to any
body or authority
Note: Where a lumpsum provision is made for providing grants-in-aid under a particular scheme, the
details of     substantial apportionment (10% of lumpsum or Rs. 1 crore, whichever is higher) should be
reported to Parliament. In the case of lumpsum provision of grants to States, the State-wise distribution
should be reported to Parliament.
(i) New Cases
(ii) Enhancement or provision Upto 10% of the appropriation already More than 10 % of the
in the existing
approved by the Parliament
or Rs.10 crore, whichever is less.
appropriation  already voted by
Parliament or Rs.10 crore,
whichever is less.
Payments against cess
New Commissions or
Committees of Enquiry
Limits as applicable to grants-in-aid to All cases
statutory or public institutions will apply
Above Rs.20 lakhs (total
Limits beyond which prior
approval of Parliament is
required for expenditure from
the Consolidated Fund
Above Rs.2.5 crore or above
10% of the appropriation
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
G. Write off of
Above Rs 50,000 but not exceeding
Rs. 1 Lakh (individual cases)
Above Rs.1 lakh (individual
H. Other cases of
Each case to be considered on merits.
The aforesaid limits, including
those relating to Works expenditure,
will also apply to these Departments
subject to considerations of security
in the case of Defence
The aforesaid limits, including
those relating to Works
expenditure, will also apply to
these Departments subject to
considerations of security in the
case of Defence Services
Note 1: For investment in Ordnance Factories, the limit of Rs.5 crore mentioned in item A (ii) will be applicable
with reference to investment in all the factories as a whole.
Note 2: Civil  Works,  which  do  not  form  part  of  any  project  of  the  departmental  undertakings  (Ordnance
Factories) should be treated as ordinary Defence works. As such, prior approval of Parliament will be
necessary if the cost of individual works exceeds Rs.2.5 crore and in cases where the individual works
cost Rs.50 lakhs or more but not exceeding Rs.2.5 crore, a report to Parliament will be required. A list of
such works should, however, be supplied to Director of Audit, Defence Services.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
ANNEXURE - II TO APPENDIX - 3
[ See Paragraph 11 of Appendix - 3/Rule 63 ]
MEMORANDUM FOR PROPOSALS INVOLVING
EXPENDITURE ON NEW SERVICE OR NEW INSTRUMENT OF SERVICE
Government of India
New Delhi, the................................
1. Statement of proposal :
(a) Title of the proposal / scheme.
(b) Description of the proposal / scheme and its objects.
(c) Justification for the proposal / scheme and what alternatives have been considered.
(d) Description  of  the  manner  in  which  the  proposal  /  scheme  is  proposed  to  be  implemented  including
mention of agency through which the scheme will be executed.
(e) Schedule of programme and target date of completion.
2. Financial implications of the proposal:
(a) Nature of the scheme (Central Sector Scheme or Centrally Sponsored – or Others.)
(b) Total outlay (recurring and non-recurring separately), its broad details and its year-wise phasing.
(i)  Budget allocation, in a scheme; and
(ii)   Budget provision in the current financial year;
if no Budget provision exists, how is the expenditure proposed to be met?
(d) Foreign exchange component of the outlay and how it is proposed to be met.
(e) Component of grant, loan and subsidy, if any, in the total outlay involved and their proposed terms. (f)
Number of posts, their pay scales and the basis adopted for staffing (Statement attached).
(g) Broad  details  of  construction  works,  their  justification  and  basis  of  estimates  (Statement  attached).  (h)
Requirement of stores and equipment together with justification and cost (Statement attached).
(i) Achievement / return expected and other economic implications, if any.
(a) Comments, if any, of the NITI Aayog (for Schemes only).
(b) Comments, if any, of other Ministries / Departments which may have been consulted.
4. Supplementary information, if any.
5. Points on which decision / sanctions are required.
Secretary to the Government of India.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX – 4
[See Note below Rule 52]
PROCEDURE FOR COMPILATION OF
DETAILED DEMANDS FOR GRANTS
1.  The Demand for Grants are presented to Parliament at two levels. The Main Demands for Grants are presented
to Parliament by the Ministry of Finance along with the Annual Financial Statement while the Detailed Demands
for Grants are laid on the Table of the Lok Sabha by the concerned Ministries a few days in advance of the
discussion of the respective Ministries Demands in that House.
Both the Main Demands for Grants as also the Detailed Demands for Grants comprise three parts each, viz.-
Part - I shows the Service for which the Demand (or Appropriation) is intended and the estimates of the gross
amount, separately for Voted and Charged Expenditure, under Revenue and Capital (including Loan) sections
required in the ensuing year in respect of that Service.
Part - II shows break up of the estimates separately. In the Main Demands for Grants, the break up is exhibited up
to the level of Major Heads of Account which correspond to functions of the Government.
In the Detailed Demands for Grants the break up in respect of activities/schemes/organization up to the object
head level is given.
The Detailed Demands for Grants also exhibit actuals of the previous year in Part - II.
Both in the Main Demands for Grants as well as in the Detailed Demands for Grants, the details of recoveries
taken in reduction of expenditure provided for in the Demand or Appropriation are also depicted.
2. All Detailed Demands for Grants of a Ministry / Department are consolidated in a single volume and presented  to
Lok  Sabha  by  the  concerned  Ministry  /  Department.  The  Detailed  Demands  show  ‘actual expenditure’
as per accounts in the previous year, Budget and Revised Estimates for the current years and Budget Estimates
for the ensuing year.
(i) The process of compilation should start in July / August with the preparation of a manuscript skeleton.
Manuscript skeletons of Detailed Demands for the ensuing year should be prepared by using the printed
Detailed Demands for the current year by making necessary alterations therein. New sub-heads sanctioned
by the Ministry of Finance, if any, and those expected to be required should also be added in the manuscript
at appropriate places. The manuscript should then be sent to the designated press for a proof. Where
necessary, a second proof may be obtained. The printed skeletons should be available with the Ministries/
Departments preferably by the 15th October each year.
(ii) Two copies of the Demand skeleton may then be sent to the Principal Accounts Officer, as the case may be,
for filling the ‘Actuals’ column for the previous year and to return one copy duly filled in.
(iii) In the master copy of the Demand, the Ministry / Department will then post (1) the figures of actuals as
reported by the Principal Accounts Officer / Accountant-General; (2) Revised Estimates for the current year
and the Budget Estimates for the ensuing year from the office copy of the SBEs /Demands for Grants sent to
Ministry of Finance. While posting these entries, care should be taken to ensure that –
(a) “Charged” items are shown in italics and are not mixed up with “Voted” provisions;
(b) posting is done accurately against the proper item / head of account including “recoveries”, if any,
taken as reduction of expenditure;
(c) new items are inserted at the proper place under the relevant minor head;
(d)   totals of sub-heads, minor heads, major heads, etc., are correctly worked out and posted; that totals of
Revenue section and Capital section as well as the grand totals are correct and show “Charged” and
“Voted” figures distinctly; and
(e) new  sub-head  (opened  through  Supplementary  Demands)  or  otherwise  or  any  change  in  the
numbering and nomenclature sanctioned by the Budget Division since the proof of the skeleton should
also be incorporated in the Master Copy.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
NOTE :–A sub-head should appear in the Demand only when there is provision thereunder, either in the
current year(Budget or Revised) or the ensuing year. Wherever only actuals of the previous year pertaining
to a sub-head are to be exhibited, this should be done by inserting suitable footnote on the relevant page.
(iv) The process of compilation and printing of the Demands should be undertaken in stages.
3.  The first proof of individual Demands may be obtained after posting actuals of previous year and other than
Scheme estimates (by 15th December). The second proof may be similarly obtained (by 15th January) after
”Scheme” Revised estimates are posted in the first proof. As soon as “Scheme ”provisions for the ensuing year
are finalized and communicated by the Ministry of Finance, they should be posted in the second proof. Before
obtaining the third proof, the following material may also be added.
(A)  Main Demands for Grants :
(i) Notes on the Demands for Grants highlighting the following :-
(a) The  objectives  of  the  concerned  Ministry  /  Department,  how  the  programmes  undertaken  or
contemplated contribute towards attainment of such objectives and the agencies entrusted with the
execution of such programmes;
(b)  Details  of  important  provisions  included  in  Demands  for  Grants  with  particular  emphasis  on
Scheme provisions and new items of expenditure;
(c)  Cogent reasons for significant variations between the Budget Estimates and Revised Estimates for the
current year and between the Revised Estimates, for the current year and the Budget Estimates for the
(d) Provisions  for  subsidy  in  lieu  of  interest  on  loans  by  the  Government  or  token  provisions  for
concessional rate of interest along with number of likely cases involved and financial implications, if
(e)  Complete  details  of  the  estimated  cost  of  a  project  together  with  its  economics  and  financial
implications (whenever these estimates are revised and the cost of escalation exceeds 20 per cent of the
sanctioned cost or Rs. 3 crores, whichever is more, full reasons therefor and the effect thereof on the
economics of the projects should also be included in the Notes on Demands).
(ii) A statement giving details of provisions in the Budget which attract limitations of “New Service”/”New
Instrument of Service”.
(B)  Detailed Demands for Grants :
The Detailed Demands for Grants will be accompanied by the following schedules/ statements:-
(i) Schedule showing the estimated strength of establishment and provision therefor.
(ii)  Statement   showing   project-wise   provision   for   expenditure   on   externally   aided   projects   in   the
(iii) Schedule showing provision for payment of grants in aid to non-Government bodies.
(iv) Statement showing details of individual works and projects costing Rs. 5 crore or above.
(v) Statement  showing  revised  cost  estimates  of  projects  of  public  sector  enterprises  and  departmental
(vi) Statement  showing  transfer  or  gift  of  Government  properties  of  value  exceeding  Rs.  5  lakhs  to  non-
(vii) Statement  showing  contributions  to  International  bodies.  This  statement  will  include  only  items  of
contribution, membership fees to international bodies, which constitute revenue expenditure. Subscriptions
to international bodies, which represent investments and are accounted for in the Capital section, are to be
excluded from it.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(viii)Statement showing guarantees given by the Central Government and outstanding as on 31st March of the
(ix) Statement showing grants-in-aid exceeding Rs. 5 lakhs (recurring ) or Rs. 10 lakhs (non-recurring) actually
sanctioned to private institutions/organizations/ individuals.
In addition the Detailed Demands for Grants will also include where necessary, “Notes on Important Projects
and Schemes”, e.g., where the Ministry / Department do not bring out performance Budgets.
5.   The third proof on receipt from the press should be thoroughly checked for accuracy of all estimates and other
data, as these must necessarily conform with the main Demands for Grants. Therefore for obtaining page
proof, all pages should be serially numbered and table of contents prepared. The page proof received from the
Press should be fully scrutinized.
6. A sample printed copy of the Demands should be scrutinized on receipt from Press and where necessary an
errata may be prepared, got printed and pasted by the Press in individual copies of the Printed Demands.
The Demands of smaller Departments like Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, Department of Parliamentary Affairs,
Staff, Household and Allowances of the President, Secretariat of the Vice-President and Union Public Service
Commission which are clubbed in a single volume are to be prepared and presented by the Ministry of Finance.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX – 5
PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED IN CONNECTION
WITH THE DEMANDS FOR SUPPLEMENTARY GRANTS
An excess over the sanctioned Grant or Appropriation may arise owing to either –
(a) an unforeseen emergency; or
(b) under-estimated  or
the  growth  of  expenditure.
In the case of an excess of either type the Head of the Department or the Controlling Officer concerned should
proceed as follows :-
(i) He should, in the first place, examine the allotments given to other Disbursing Officers under the same
detailed  head  within  the  unit  of  appropriation,  and  transfer  to  the  Disbursing  Officer  who  requires  an
additional allotment such sum as can be permanently or temporarily spared. Since appropriation audit is
ordinarily conducted against total allotments for a unit, reappropriation in the technical sense of the word is
not involved in such cases. The process amounts only to redistribution which the Controlling Officer can
ordinarily effect without reference to any other authority.
(ii)   Should he find such redistribution impossible he should examine the allotments against other detailed heads
inside the primary units of appropriation, with the object of discovering probable savings and effecting a
transfer. Where such redistribution is feasible, he should if he has been vested with the necessary powers,
carry it out. Otherwise, he should obtain the sanction of the competent authority.
(iii)  If the provision of funds from within the primary units proves to be impossible, an examination of the whole
grant should be undertaken to see whether there are likely to be savings under any of the other units of grant
or appropriation which can be utilized to meet it. If so, he should proceed as indicated in Clause (ii) above.
If such savings are not available, it should be seen whether special economies can be effected under other
primary units of appropriation. If funds cannot be provided by either of these methods, it will have to be
considered whether the excess should be met by postponement of expenditure or whether an application for
supplementary grant or appropriation should be made.
(v)   The Supplementary Demand for Grants shall be presented to the Parliament in a number of batches as
decided by the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs. The first batch shall normally consist of
requirements of the following nature :-
(a) Cases where advances from Contingency Fund of India have been granted, which are required to be
recouped to the Fund.
(b) Payment against a court decree, which cannot be postponed; and
(c) Cases of additional requirement of funds for making immediate payments, which can be met by re-
appropriation of savings in the Grant but attract the limitation of New Service / New Instrument of
(vi) All applications for supplementary grants or appropriations should be submitted by the Department of the
Central Government administratively concerned to the Ministry of Finance on such dates and in such forms /
batches as may be prescribed by the latter from time to time.
(vii) On receipt of an application for a supplementary grant, the Ministry of Finance will review the position of the
grant of appropriation as a whole with reference to the known actuals of the year to date and the actuals and
estimates for previous years. If after this examination, the Ministry of Finance comes to the conclusion that it
should be possible for the Administrative Department to meet the expenditure from within the sanctioned
grant either from normal savings or by special economies or in the last resort by judicious postponement of
other expenditure or in the last resort by judicious postponement of other expenditure, the Administrative
Department will be so informed and no supplementary demand will be presented to Parliament. If, on the
other hand, the Ministry of Finance considers that a supplementary grant will be necessary, a demand will be
placed before Parliament.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(viii)If during the course of the year it is found necessary to incur expenditure on a ‘New Service’ not provided for
in  the  annual  budget  the  Administrative  Department  shall  explain  to  the  Ministry  of  Finance  why  the
expenditure was not provided for in the original budget and why it cannot be postponed for consideration in
connection with the next budget. The Ministry of Finance, if satisfied on these points, will consider whether it
would not be reasonable to ask the department concerned to curtail its other expenditure so as to keep the
total within the grant. Ordinarily, no “new service” or item will be accepted by the Ministry of Finance, unless
the department concerned can guarantee that the extra expenditure will be met from normal savings or by
special economies within the grant. Cases which involve additional grant will normally be accepted by the
Ministry  of  Finance  only  if  they  relate  to  matters  of  real  imperative  necessity  or  to  the  earning  or
safeguarding of revenue. The demand for a supplementary grant of appropriation or a token vote in
respect of a “new service” will be presented to Parliament as soon as practicable after the need arises.
NOTE. –The expression ‘New Service’ wherever used in this Appendix includes – ‘New Instrument of Service’.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX – 6
[Rule 67. (4)]
THE CONTIGENCY FUND OF INDIA RULES
SRO 1358. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Contingency Fund of India Act, 1950 (XLIXof
1950), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules:-
CONTINGENCY FUND OF INDIA RULES
1. These rules may be called the Contingency Fund of India Rules.
2. The Contingency Fund of India shall be held on behalf of the President by the Secretary to theGovernment of
India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs.
3. From out of the Balance in the Fund, such amounts as may be agreed upon from time to time shall be placed at
the disposal of the Financial Commissioner of Railways for the purpose of meeting the unforeseen expenditure
of the Railways.
4. Subject to the provisions of Rule 5 below, all applications for advances from the Fund shall be made to the
Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs. The applications
shall give -
(i) brief particulars of the additional expenditure involved,
(iii) why its postponement is not possible,
(iv) the amount required to be advanced from the Fund with full cost of the proposal for the year or part of the
the circumstances in which provision could not be included in the budget,
year, as the case may be, and
the grant or appropriation under which supplementary provision will eventually have to be obtained.
5. Applications for advances required by Railways shall be made to the Financial  Commissioner of Railways in the
manner provided for in Rule 4.
6. Advances  from  the  Fund  shall  be  made  for  the  purpose  of  meeting  unforeseen  expenditure  including
expenditure on a new service not contemplated in the annual financial statement.
7. A copy of the order sanctioning the advance, which shall specify the amount, the grant or appropriation to
which  it  relates  and  give  brief  particulars  by  sub-heads  and  units  of  appropriation  of  the  expenditure  for
meeting which it is made, shall be forwarded by the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Commissioner of
Railways, as the case may be, to the Audit and Accounts Officers concerned. In addition, the Ministry of Finance
and the Financial Commissioner of Railways shall forward copies of such orders to the Accountant- General,
Central Revenues and the Director of Railway Audit respectively.
(1) Supplementary Estimates for all expenditure so financed shall be presented to Parliament at the first session
meeting  immediately  after  the  advance  is  sanctioned  unless  such  advance  has  been  resumed  to  the
Contingency Fund in accordance with the provisions of sub-rule (2).
NOTE 1. -While presenting to Parliament Estimates for expenditure financed from the Contingency Fund, a
note to the following effect shall be appended to such Estimates :-
‘A sum of Rs. ………………………… has been advanced from the Contingency Fund in
………………………and an equivalent amount is required to enable repayment to be made to that Fund.’
NOTE 2. -If the expenditure on a new service not contemplated in the Annual Financial Statement can be
met, ‘wholly or partly’ from savings available within the authorized appropriation, the note appended to the
Estimates submitted shall be in the following form :-
‘The expenditure is on a new service. A sum of Rs. …………………..has been advanced from Contingency
Fund in ……………….. and an equivalent amount is required to enable repayment to be made to that
Fund.’ The amount, viz., Rs. …………………………… can be found by re-appropriation.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
‘A part of that amount, viz., Rs. ……………………… of savings within the grant and a token vote only is now
a vote is required for the balance
(2) As soon as Parliament has authorized additional expenditure by means of a Supplementary Appropriation
Act, the advance or advances made from the Contingency Fund, whether for meeting the expenditure
incurred  before  the  Supplementary  Estimates  were  presented  to  the  Parliament  or  after  they  were  so
presented, shall be resumed to the Fund to the full extent of the appropriation made in Act.
8.  A.  If  in  any  case,  after  the  order  sanctioning  an  advance  from  the  Contingency  Fund  has  been  issued  in
accordance with Rule 7 and before action is taken in accordance with Rule 8, it is found that the advance
sanctioned will remain wholly or partly unutilized, an application shall be made to the sanctioning authority for
cancelling or modifying the sanction, as the case may be.
8. B. All advances sanctioned from the Contingency Fund to meet expenditure in excess of the provision for the
service included in an Appropriation (Vote on Accounts) Act shall be resumed to the Contingency Fund as soon
as the Appropriation Act in respect of the expenditure on the service for the whole year, including the excess met
from the advances from the Contingency Fund has been passed.
8. C. If during an Election year, two Budgets are presented to the Parliament, all advances, sanctioned from the
Contingency Fund of India during the period between the presentation of first and second Budgets or during the
period between the presentation of the second Budget and the passing of the connected Appropriation Act to
meet  expenditure  on  a  service  not  included  in  an  Appropriation  (Vote  on  Account)  Act  and  the  advances
outstanding at the end of the preceding financial year being advances the estimates for which are included in
the second Budget, shall be resumed to the Contingency Fund as soon as the Appropriation Act in respect of the
expenditure on the service for the whole year has been passed.
NOTE. -A suitable explanation regarding the advance and the recoupment thereof shall be incorporated in the
“Notes on Demands for Grants”. Wherever required, such a case will be included in the statement of ‘New
Service’ / ‘New Instrument of Service’ appended at the end of the demands.
9.   A copy of the order resuming the advance, which shall give a reference to the number and date of the order in
which the original advance was made and to the Supplementary Appropriation Act referred to in Rule 8, shall
be forwarded by the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Officers concerned, in addition, to the Audit and
Accounts Officers concerned. In addition, the Ministry of Finance shall forward copies of such orders to the
Accountant General, Central Revenues, and the Director of Railways Audit if pertaining to the Railways.
10. An account of the transactions of the Fund shall be maintained by the Ministry of Finance in Form ‘A’ annexed to
11. Actual expenditure incurred against advances from the Contingency Fund shall be recorded in the account
relating to the Contingency Fund in the same details as it would have been shown if it had been paid out of the
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
ANNEXURE FORM ‘A’
[See Paragraph 10 of Appendix-6 ]
CONTINGENCY FUND OF INDIA
Amount of the Fund
date of the
NOTE1.- The balance should be struck after each transaction.
NOTE2.- The amount of the advances should be entered in
black ink when made and in red ink when resumed.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX - 7
[See Rule 310 (4) and 310 (5) ]
TRANSFER OF LAND AND BUILDINGS BETWEEN
THE UNION AND STATE GOVERNMENTS
These rules apply to the transfer of land and buildings between the Union and the State Governments and
also to the surrender to the State Governments of land belonging to Railways.
The general position under Article 294 of the Constitution is that as from the commencement of the
(a)      all property and assets which immediately before such commencement were vested in His Majesty
for  the  purposes  of  the  Government  of  the  Dominion  of  India  and  all  property  and  assets  which
immediately before such commencement were vested in His Majesty for the purpose of the Government of
each Governor’s Province, shall vest respectively in the Union and the corresponding State; and all rights,
liabilities and obligations of the Government of the Dominion of India and of the Government of each
Governor’s Province, whether arising out of any contract or otherwise, shall be the rights, liabilities and
obligations respectively of the Government of India and the Government of each corresponding State
subject to any adjustment made or to be made by reason of the creation before the commencement of the
construction of the Dominion of Pakistan or of the Province, of West Bengal, West Punjab and East Punjab.
Article 294, as is evident, relates to succession to property, assets, rights, liabilities and obligations in
certain cases only; Article 295 of the Constitution which relate to succession to property, assets, rights,
liabilities and obligations in other cases, provides that -
(i) As from the commencement of the Constitution :
(a) all property and assets which immediately before such commencement were vested in any Indian
State corresponding to a State specified in Part -B of the First Schedule shall vest in the Union if
specified in Part - B of the First Schedule shall vest in the Union if the purpose for which such
property  and  assets  were  held  immediately  before  such  commencement  will  thereafter  be
purposes of the Union relating to any of the matters enumerated in the Union List; and
(b)  all rights, liabilities and obligations of the Government of any Indian State corresponding to a State
specified in Part -B of the First Schedule, whether arising out of any contract or otherwise, shall be
the rights, liabilities and obligations of the Union Government, if the purposes for which such rights
were acquired or liabilities or obligations were incurred before such commencement will thereafter
be purposes of the Union Government relating to any of the matters enumerated in the Union List:
subject  to  any  agreement  entered  into  in  that  behalf  by  the  Union  Government  with  the
Government of that State.
(ii) Subject as aforesaid, the Government of each State specified in Part ‘B’ of the First Schedule shall, as
from the commencement of the Constitution, be the successor of the Government of the corresponding
Indian State as regards all property and assets and all rights, liabilities and obligations, whether arising
out of any contract or otherwise, other than those referred to in Clause (1).
All property and assets, which include land and buildings, and which vest in the State Government
under Articles 294 and 295 of the Constitution or otherwise shall be at the disposal of the respective
State Governments, who will be at liberty to dispose them of by sale, mortgage, etc., and the proceeds
thereof shall be credited to the revenues of the respective State Governments.
From the  commencement  of  the  Constitution,  the  transfer  of  land  between  the  Union  and  the
State Government shall be regulated by mutual agreement except when they are acquired under some
Act. The Union Government have laid down the following principles to be observed in regard to certain
(a) When land belonging to a private party has to be acquired on behalf of the Union Government
acquisition shall be at the expense of that Government.
(b)   In cases where the Union Government require any land, which is in occupation of the State
Government,    to    be    transferred    to    them,    the    amount    payable    by    the    Union
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Government  will  ordinarily be the market value of the land and buildings, if any, thereon.
(c) The amount payable will include the capitalized value of land revenue assessable on the land
when the transfer causes actual loss of land revenue to the State Government.
(d)  Solatium of 15 per cent payable under the Land Acquisition Act will not apply to such transfers.
(ii) Land surplus to the requirements of the Union Government :- When the Union Government no
longer required land in their possession, the Government of the State in which it is situated will be
given the option of assuming possession of the whole or any portion thereof subject to the following
(a)  the Union government themselves shall  be the judges of  whether they require to retain any
particular land or not;
(b) if the State Government desire to assume possession of the land, the option to do so shall be
exercised within six months of the date on which the Union Government signify their intention
of surrendering the land;
(c)  the amount payable for the land will in all cases be its market value at the date of transfer;
(d)  when  the  State  Government  desire  to  assume  possession  of  only  a  portion  of  the  land
surrendered, they shall be entitled to do so only if the value of the land as a whole is not
materially reduced by the division; and
(e)  if the State Government do not desire to assume possession of any land on the foregoing terms,
the  Union  Government  will  be  free  to  dispose  it  of  to  a  third  party.  Before,  however,  so
disposing of the land, the Union Government will consult the State Government as to the levy
of ground rent or assessment and the conditions, if any, subject to which it should be sold and
they will, as far as possible, dispose of the land subject to the conditions which the State
Government may desire to impose. The Union Government are not, however, bound to obtain
the concurrence of the State Government in all cases, and in cases of disagreement the Union
Government shall be the sole judge of the terms and conditions to be imposed.
Determination of Disputes as to Titles. - Disputes as to title between the Union Government and a Stat
Government shall be determined by the Supreme Court.
2.       Market value defined. -Market value when applied to land may be defined as the price which the land
would fetch if sold in the open market subject to the ground rent or assessment shown against it in the
revenue registers, or, if no ground rent or assessment shown against it in the revenue registers, subject to a
ground rent or assessment levied at the rate at which ground rent or assessment is actually being levied on
similar lands in the neighbourhood excluding all cases in which such similar lands in the neighbourhood
are held free of ground rent or assessment at favourable or unfavourable rates of ground or assessment.
This  is  the  market  value  which  has  to  be  credited  or  debited,  as  the  case  may  be,  in  the  case  of  all
transactions  between  the  State  Governments  and  the  Union  Government  or  between  the  Union
Government and State Governments or the Railways.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX - 8
[ See Rule 286. (3) and Rule311]
CHARITABLE ENDOWMENTS AND OTHER TRUSTS
I. CHARITABLE ENDOWMENTS
1. The duties of the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India are prescribed in the Charitable Endowments
Act, 1890 (Act VI of 1890), and the rules framed thereunder, which are printed as an Annexure hereto.
2. Under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Charitable Endowments Act, the Deputy Secretary/Director (Budget) in
the Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs, nominated for the purpose, has been appointed ex
officio to be the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India with effect from the 1st April, 1954. All the
property of Charitable Endowments, the objects of which extend beyond a single State or which are objects to
which the executive authority of the Central Government extend, vest in him.
The Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India is authorized to employ the agency of the Treasurer of
Charitable Endowments of   a State, with the consent of the State Governments, for discharging any of the
functions assigned to him under the rules referred to in Paragraph 1 above.
3.  When a copy of a vesting order is received by the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India, he should at
once place himself in communication with the persons who appear from the order to be the holders of the
documents of title relating to the property or of the securities mentioned in the order, and request them to
forward the Title Deeds, or securities in a registered cover and to insure the cover for Rs. 100. These do not
require to be endorsed, as the vesting order operates to transfer the securities to the Treasurer.
4.  At every change of Office of the Deputy Secretary/Director (Budget) in the Ministry of Finance, Department of
Economic  Affairs  nominated  for  the  purpose,  a  formal  transfer  of  charge  of  the  Treasurer  of  Charitable
Endowments for India should also take place and as separate charge report, supported by a statement of the
total of the balances of the Funds vested in the Treasurer, duly signed by the relieved and the relieving Treasurers
should be sent to Government.
A list of receipts granted by the Reserve Bank in acknowledgement of the securities forwarded to it for safe
custody as also of the securities kept in the custody of the Treasurer should also be prepared and signed by the
relieved and the relieving Treasurers, and sent to Government along with the charge report.
NOTE. -Whenever there is a change in the Office of a Treasurer of Charitable Endowments of a State who has
been acting as an agent of the treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India, a charge report prepared in the
manner indicated in this paragraph should be furnished to the latter.
II. MISCELLANEOUS TRUST ACCOUNTS
5.  If,  under  any  general  or  special  orders  of  Government,  an  Audit  Officer  /  Accounts  Officer  or  any  other
Government officer is required to act in his official capacity as a Trustee or Depository of any public or quasi-
public fund, which does come within the scope of the accounts of Government, or of any Charitable Endowment
and is not a Government security held in trust under the rules in Chapter IX of the Government Securities
Manual, such an officer should endeavour to have the trust vested, if possible, in the Treasurer of Charitable
Endowments for India; but, if that course is not possible, he should open an account with the State Bank of India,
or with any other approved Bank, for the deposit of moneys received by him on account of Trust. Full and clear
record of all transactions relating to the trust fund should be kept in the books of accounts in his personal
custody in a form complying with the terms and conditions of the Trust. The securities, if any, deposited with him
should be dealt with in accordance with the instructions contained in Chapter IX of the Government Securities
6. The books of accounts should be supported by a short statement descriptive of the nature and obligation of the
Trust, with reference to the documents bearing upon it, so that any other Government officer on receiving
charge may know by reference to it exactly what his obligations are in the matter.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
NOTE. -The receipt and disposal of interest should be recorded in these accounts which are meant for the
principal of the Trusts only.
7. The accounts should be balanced and closed every 31st day of March. They should also be balanced and
closed when the Government officer acting as the Trustee makes over charge of his office to a successor or
substitute, a balance sheet being appended to the charge report and signed both by the officer receiving and
the officer giving over charge.
8. The accounts will be subject to such audit check as may be prescribed by Government.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
[ See Paragraph 1 of Appendix -8 ]
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 13 of the
Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 (VI of 1890), and in supersession of the late Home Department
Notification No. 1569 - Judicial, dated the 24th October, 1890, the Central Government is
pleased to make the following rules and forms :-
THE CHARITABLE ENDOWMENTS (CENTRAL) RULES, 1942
1. Short Title. -
(1)  These rules may be called the Charitable Endowments (Central) Rules, 1942.
(2)  They apply to charitable endowments the objects of which extend beyond a single State or are objects, to
which the executive authority of the Central Government extends.
2. Interpretation.- In these rules -
(a)  “the Act” means the Charitable Endowments Act, 1890;
(b)  “Treasurer” means the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India for the time being, appointed under
sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Act, and includes such other officer as the Treasurer may appoint to
discharge any of the functions assigned to him under these rules;
(c)  “Form” means a form appended to these rules.
3. Previous publication of vesting orders and schemes.-On cases in which private persons apply for a vesting
order or a scheme or modification of a scheme, and in all cases in which it is proposed to depart in any respect
from the ascertained wishes or presumable intentions of the founder of an endowment, there shall ordinarily,
and unless the Central Government otherwise directs, be precious publication of the proposed vesting order or
scheme or modification.
4. Mode of previous publication.
(1) Unless  the  Central  Government  is  of  opinion  that  a  proposed  vesting  order  or  proposed  scheme  or
modification of a scheme may be made or settled without previous publication, it shall publish a draft of the
proposed order, scheme or modification or a sufficient abstract thereof, for the information of persons
likely to be affected thereby.
(2) The   publication   shall   be made in the   Official   Gazette   and in   such   other manner   as the   Central
Government may direct.
(3)  A notice specifying a date on or after which the proposed order, scheme or modification will be taken into
consideration by the Central Government should be published with the draft or abstract.
(4) The Central Government shall consider any objection or suggestion which it may receive from any person
with respect to the proposed order, scheme or modification thereof before the date specified in the notice
under sub-rule (3).
5. Costs. The cost of the previous publication under Rule 4 of any proposed order, scheme or modification of a
scheme, and any other costs incurred or which may be incurred in the making of the orders or in the settlement
of a scheme or modification of a scheme, shall be paid by the applicant for the order, scheme or modification,
as the case may be, and, if the Central Government so directs may be paid by him out of any money in his
possession pertaining to the trust to which his application relates.
6. Securities which may vest in the Treasurer.-No securities for money except the securities mentioned in
Clauses (a), (b), (bb), (c) and (d) of Section 20 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (II of 1882), shall be vested in the
7. Accounts of trusts consisting of immovable property.-In the case of property vested in the Treasurer other
than securities for money, the person acting in the administration of the trust and having, under sub-section (3)
of Section 8 of the Act, the possession, management and control of the property and the application of the
income thereof, shall in books to be kept by him, regularly enter or cause to be entered full and true accounts of
all moneys received and paid respectively on account of the trust, and shall, on the demand of the Central
Government, submit annually to such public servant as the Central Government may appoint in this behalf, in
such form and at such time as the Central Government may prescribe, an abstract of those accounts and such
returns as to other matters relating to the administration of the trust as the Central Government may from time
to time see fit to require.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
(1) The following are prescribed as the fees to be paid to the Central Government in respect of any property
vested under the Act in the Treasurer :-
(i)   In the case of property other than securities for money, the actual charge incurred by the Treasurer in the
discharge of his functions in respect of he property.
(ii)  In the case of securities for money, at the rate of one Paisa for every rupee of interest collected.
The fee shall be charged on interest by rounding off the amount to the nearest rupee, fractions of a
rupee below fifty Paisa or more being reckoned as one rupee.
(2) The Treasurer may deduct any fees payable to the Central Government under this rule on account of any
endowment from any money in his hands on account of such endowment. If he holds no such moneys the
amount shall be claimed form the administrators of the endowment.
9.   Vesting orders how filed. - All copies of vesting orders received by the Treasurer shall be filed together and
shall be numbered in consecutive order of their receipt; when a sufficient number have been received they shall
be bound in volumes. A note shall be made on each vesting order of any entries in the registers prescribed
under these rules relating to the property vesting in the Treasurer under the order.
10. Registers of securities. - On the receipt of any securities for money, or on their purchase by himself, the
Treasurer shall record their receipt in a register in Form 1. He shall also keep a separate account for each
endowment in Form 2, in which he shall record all receipts including any amount sent for investment, and all
disbursements. In the cash account in Part - II of Form 2 the Treasurer shall record only his own transactions
(such as the payment of the money to the administrator), and not the transactions of the administrators of the
11. Stock Disposal Register. - The Treasurer shall enter all securities returned or sold by him in a register in Form 3.
Returns shall also be entered in Form 2, where the amount returned will be deducted from the capital of the
12. Custody of Securities. - On the issue of a vesting order under Section 4 of the Act in respect of any securities for
money, the person authorized under Section 6 of the Act to make the application for such vesting order shall, as
soon as practicable, forward to the Treasurer the said securities. The Treasurer shall, after recording the receipt
of the said securities in the registers kept under Rule10, take steps, as soon as practicable, to have them
converted into stock and keep the stock certificate in his custody. After conversion, entries shall be made  in  the
Treasurer’s  Stock  Register  in  Form  7.  A  consolidated  register  showing  the  securities  (e.g., Promissory
Notes and the Stock Certificates) in the custody of the Treasurer shall also be maintained in Form 8.
13. Accounting of Interest. - The Treasurer, on receipt of any interest securities, shall pass it through his General
Trust Interest Account under a special Sub-Head “Interests on Charitable Endowments under Act VI of 1890”.
The interest will then be distributed to the various ledger accounts in the register in Form 2, in which the gross
amounts shall be shown, any deductions for fees, etc., being shown as a charge, and the payment of the
balance to the administrators being shown as a disbursement. The Treasurer shall maintain personal, ledger
account in the Reserve Bank and shall make payment to the administrators by cheques. The entries in the ledger
of interest received shall be taken out and agreed annually with the total amount of the interest drawn.
14. Balance Sheet. -The registers in Form 1 shall show all securities vested in the Treasurer as such. In order to
prove the balance actually held by the Treasurer in his own hands, a balance sheet in Form 4 shall be made out
actually and agreed with the actual securities in the Treasurer’s possession. Such agreement shall be certified
on the balance sheet.
15. Publication of accounts. -A list of all properties vested in the Treasurer and an abstract of the accounts of the
interest and the annual agreement of balance shall be published in the Official Gazette on the 15th June of
16. Register of property other than securities.-The Treasurer shall enter in a register in Form 5 any property
other than securities which becomes vested in him, and shall record in the same register against the original
entry a note of any property of which he is divested.
17. Form of publication of list and abstract.-The list of properties vested in the Treasurer to be published annually
under Rule 15 shall be in Form 6. Part - I will relate to properties other than securities; Part - III will relate to
securities and will also contain the abstract of accounts required by the Act to be published. The Treasurer shall
demand  and  receive  acknowledgements  of  the  correctness  of  the  balances  when  so  published,  from  the
administrators of endowment funds or from any one or more of their body who may have been authorized by
the administrators to give such acknowledgements and such acknowledgements shall be furnished within 3
months from the date of publication of accounts in the Official Gazette.
18. Audit.-Arrangements for annual audit of the Treasurer’s accounts shall be made by the Comptroller and
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
REGISTER OF SECURITIES HELD UNDER ACT VI OF 1890
Particulars of Securities received
3 ½ per cent
Loan of 1865,
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
LEDGER ACCOUNT OF SECURITIES HELD UNDER ACT VI OF 1890.
1.Name of Endowment…………
2.Particulars of vesting order…………
3.When vested in Treasurer…………
4.Name of Administrators…………
5.To whom interest is to be sent…………
PART - I - Account of Capital
Value of each security
(separate column for each kind)
NOTE.- The balance of the value columns must be worked out on every day on which there is a new entry.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
To be closed annually to balance. The transactions will not be numerous. A few pages of the ledger (rule
only for the Cash Account) may be left for each account, so that the account may be carried on for several
years without opening a fresh Ledger Account.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
STOCK DISPOSAL REGISTER
Name of the
Fund or Trust
No. of entries in
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
BALANCE SHEET OF SECURITIES HELD UNDER ACT VI OF 1890
3 ½ per cent Loan
(A pair of columns for
each different kind of
Opening Balance (from last year)
...........Stock Certificates received .....
Sent to the PDO Reserve Bank of
India for conversion into stock...........
Returned or sold...............................
Sent for conversion out of which stock
certificates have not been received
Certified that the above closing balance has been compared with the Securities in Treasurer’s possession and has
been found to be agree both as to number and value.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
REGISTER OF PROPERTIES OTHER THAN SECURITIES
HELD UNDER ACT VI OF 1890
Particulars of vesting order
Title Deeds held
Initials of Treasurer
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
LIST AND ABSTRACT ACCOUNT OF
PROPERTIES HELD UNDER ACT VI OF 1890
PART - I - LIST OF PROPERTIES, OTHER THAN SECURITIES
Particulars of vesting order
LIST OF ABSTRACT PART ACCOUNT-II-OF SECURITIES
* Enter details in these columns
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
TREASURER’S STOCK REGISTER OF
or trust the
per cent loan of
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
REGISTER OF CLEAN GOVERNMENT PROMISSORY NOTES AND
STOCK CERTIFICATES HELD BY THE TREASURER
OF CHARITABLE ENDOWMENTS FOR INDIA
A pair of
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX - 9
[ See Rule320]
DESTRUCTION OF OFFICE RECORDS CONNECTED
The destruction of records (including correspondence) connected with accounts shall be governed by the following
Rules and such other subsidiary rules consistent therewith as may be prescribed by Government in this behalf with
the concurrence of the Comptroller and Auditor-General.
The following shall on no account be destroyed :-
(i)  Records connected with expenditure, which is within the period of limitation fixed by law.
(ii)  Records connected with expenditure on projects, schemes or works not completed, although beyond the
period of limitation.
(iii)  Records connected  with claims to service  and personal matters affecting  persons  in the service except as
indicated in the Annexure to this Appendix.
(iv)  Orders and sanctions of a permanent character, until revised.
(v)  Records in respect of which an audit objection is outstanding.
2.  The following shall be preserved for not less than the period specified against them :-
Description of records
Sl. No. Main-Head
(I) Expenditure Sanctions not
covered by Paragraph 1
above (including sanctions
relating to grants-in-aid)
(ii) Cash Books maintained
by the Drawing and
Disbursing Officers under
Account (Receipts and
Payments) Rules, 1983.
(iii) Contingent expenditure.
(iv)  Arrear claims (including
sanction for investigation,
Papers relating to :
(v) GPF Membership.
(vi) GPF Nomination.
(vii)   Adjustment of missing
credits in GPF Accounts.
2 years, or one year after
completion of audit,
whichever is later.
3 years, or one year after
completion of audit,
whichever is later.
3 years, or 1 year after
completion of audit,
whichever is later.
1 year - after final
settlement of GPF Account.
placed in Vol. II of the
Service Book of
(b)  Nomination in
original or an
thereof being placed
in Vol. II of the Service
Book/Personal File in
case of other
Subject to an
authenticated copy of
the sanction being
placed on the
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Sl. No. Main-Head
Description of records
(viii) Final withdrawal from
GPF, e.g., for house building,
higher technical education of
(ix) GPF annual statements.
(x)T.A./Transfer T.A. claims
Leave Account of:
Service records. (a) Nomination relating to
family pension in and DCR
(b) Civil List Gradation/
(i) in the case of
bringing out the
(ii) In the case of other
Departments  (i.e., those
for such compilation)
3 years, or one year after
completion of audit,
whichever is later.
3 years after issue of final
3 years after they have
ceased to be in service.
3 years after issue of
gratuity payment order.
3 years after they have
ceased to be in service.
1 year - after settlement
1  year  after issue  of
The retention period
here related to the
Budget / Revised
Estimates as compiled
by the Budget /
Accounts Section for
the Department as a
Subject to the nomination
in original or an
authenticated copy thereof
(where original kept with
the audit)as the may be
being placed in Vol. II
of the Service Book/
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Subject to suitable entry
being made in
the appropriate service
record and an
authenticated copy of the
order being kept in
Vol. II of Service
Subject to a suitable record
being kept somewhere,
e.g., in the Service Book or
Description of records
Sl. No. Main-Head
(c) Alteration in the
date of birth.
be favour of a
temporary or a
(a) Pay Bill register.
(b) Office copies
pay bills and
(in respect of
period for which
pay bill register is
(c)  Schedules to
pay bills for the
period for which
pay bill register is
(d) Admission of previous
service not supported by
record, e.g., through
(e) Verification of service.
(a) In respect of lower
(b) In respect of
(c) Register of monthly
expenditure (Form GFR 9)
3 years; or 1 year after
audit, whichever is later
To be weeded out at the
end of financial year.
To be weeded out after the
Appropriation Accounts for
the year have been finalized
To be weeded out
Accounts for the year have
3 years after the Bond
ceases to enforceable.
3 years, or one year after
the completion of audit,
whichever is later
3 years, or one year after
the completion of audit,
whichever is later.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Description of records
Sl. No. Main-Head
Such period as may be
prescribed in this behalf in
the departmental regulations
subject to a minimum of
three financial years of
payment excluding the
financial year of payment
returned by the
Bank to the Audit/
Files, papers and
relating to the
The counter foils of
should be preserved
for the same period as
preservation of paid
cheques, viz., 5 years.
However, in cases
where the counter foils
are required to be
settlement of some
enquiry, etc., these
should not be
otherwise advised by
enquiry. The other
in this Appendix will
continue to be
applicable in this case
before the counterfoils
which are more than
five years old are
5 years after the contract/
agreement is fulfilled or
terminated. In cases where
audit objections have been
raised, however, the
relevant files and documents
shall not, under any
circumstances, be allowed
to be destroyed till such time
as the objections have been
cleared to the satisfaction of
the audit authorities or have
been reviewed by the Public
3 years after the expiry of
the financial year in which
the expenditure was
incurred, subject to
completion of administrative
audit and issue of audit
certificate by the nominated
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
The retention period specified in Column (4), in the case of a file, is to be reckoned form the year in which
the file is closed (i.e., action thereon has been completed) and not necessarily from the year in which it is
In the case of records other than files, e.g., registers, the prescribed retention period will be counted from the
year in which it has ceased to be current.
In exceptional cases, a record may be retained for a period longer than that specified in the schedule, if it
has certain special features or such a course is warranted by the peculiar needs of the department. In no
case, however, will a record be retained for a period shorter than that prescribed in the schedule.
If a record is required in connection with the disposal of another record, the former will not be weeded out
until after all the issues raised in the latter have been finally decided, even though the retention period
marked on the former may have expired in the meantime. In fact, the retention periods initially marked on
such records should be consciously reviewed and, where necessary, revised suitably.
(1) Before any pay bills/pay registers are destroyed, the service of the Government servants concerned
should be verified under Rule257in accordance(1) with .
(2) The periods of preservation of account records in Public Works Offices are prescribed separately by
Where a minimum period after which any record may be destroyed has been prescribed, the Head of a
Department or any other authority empowered by him to do so, may order in writing the destruction of
such record in their own and subordinate offices on the expiry of that period counting from the last day
of the latest financial year covered by the record.
(4) Heads of Departments shall be competent to sanction the destruction of such other records in their own
and subordinate offices as may be considered useless, but a list of such records as property appertain
to the accounts audited by the Indian Audit and Accounts Departments shall be forwarded to the Audit
Officer and or the Accounts Officers, as the case may be, for his concurrence in their destruction before
the destruction is ordered by the Head of Department.
(5) Full details shall be maintained permanently, in each office, of all records destroyed from time to time.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
ANNEXURE TO APPENDIX – 9
Destruction of records referred to in Para. 1 (iii) of this Appendix
Description of records
(I) Continuance /
revival of posts.
(ii) Conversion of
(iii) Creation of posts.
(iv)   Revision of
scales of pay.
(v) Upgrading of posts.
Permanent in the case
issuing orders and
need keep only the
weeding out superseded
ones as and when
they become obsolete.
Subject to particulars
of sanction being noted
Where, for any reason
the register is
re-written, the old
volume will be kept for
(a)  the file not being
closed until the award/
judgment become final
in all  respects by
limitation or final
decision in appeal/
(b)  cases involving
important issues or
containing material of a
high precedent /
reference value being
retained for an
period either initially or
at the time of review.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Description of records
Section 80 of
Condonation of break
If such a notice is
followed up by a civil
suit, it would become
case  and  would,
therefore, need to be
retained for 3 years.
Subject to a suitable
entry being made in the
record and an
authenticated copy of
the order being kept in
Vol. II of Service Book
(iii) Cycle Advance
(v) GPF Advance
(vi) House Building
(vii) Motor Cycle /
(viii) Pay Advance Rules
(ix)   T. A. Advance
(xi) Other Advance
(xii) Grant of car
(xiii) Grant of
Permanent in the
the rules, orders
need keep only the
standing rules, etc.,
weeding out the
superseded ones as
and when they
Subject to :
(i) suitable entries being
made in pay bill register;
and (ii)   in case of motor
car/motor cycle / scooter
and house building
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Description of records
(a) copies of sanction
being placed on
personal files; and
(b)  mortgage deeds and
executed being kept
separately in safe
custody for the period
they are valid.
(xiv) Grant of cycle
(xv) Grant of festival
(xvi) Grant of GPF
(xvii) Grant of
(xviii) Grant of motor
(xix) Grant of pay
(xx) Grant of T. A.
(xxi) Grant of LTC
(xxii) Grant of other
3 years after the Bond
ceases to be
Permanent in the case of
Departments issuing the
rules, orders and
Departments need keep only
the standing rules and
orders weeding out the
superseded ones as and
when they become obsolete.
Till one year after the
last beneficiary of
the family pension
ceases to be entitled to
receive or 5 years
whichever is later.
executed in favor
of a temporary
or a retiring
(i) Rules and Orders
(ii) In respect of Groups
(a)   Pre-verification of
(b)   Invalid pension
(c)   Family pension
(d)   Other pensions
(f)  Commutation of
pension  after the Bond
ceases to be enforceable.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Note – The principle to be adopted in respect of files having financial implications and hence liable to be called by
audit for inspection is that such files should be retained for a period of five years after they have been recorded. If, at
any time during the period of five years, an audit objection having reference to the transaction dealt with in that file
arises, is received, the file will not be destroyed until after the audit objection has been settled to the satisfaction of
the audit. Also, if local audit does not take place within the period of five years, the Head of the Office should
ascertain from the audit authorities whether they have any objection to the files relating to the earlier years, due for
weeding out by the application of the five year formula, being destroyed or retained for a further period for scrutiny
by the audit party and, if so, for what period.
While records may be reviewed and weeded out at periodical intervals in the light of the retention periods prescribed
to avoid their build-up, the attempt should be to make a continuous and conscious effort throughout the year to
weed out unnecessary records. In other words, the working rules should be “weed as you go”.
1.   The retention period specified in Column (4) in the case of a file, is to be reckoned from the year in which the file
is closed (i.e., action thereon has been completed) and not necessarily from the year in which it is recorded.
2.   In the case of records other than files, e.g., registers, the prescribed retention period will be counted from the
year in which it has ceased to be current.
3.   In exceptional cases, a record may be retained for a period longer than that specified in the Schedule, if it has
certain special features or such a course is warranted by the peculiar needs of the Department. In no case,
however, will a record be retained for a period shorter than that prescribed in the schedule.
4.   If a record is required in connection with the disposal of another record, the former will not be weeded out until
after all the issues raised on the latter have been finally decided, even though the retention period marked on
the former may have expired in the meantime. In fact, the retention periods initially marked on such records
should be consciously “reviewed and where necessary revised suitably”.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX - 10
[See Rule 61 and Rule 69]
“CHECK AGAINST PROVISION OF FUNDS”
The pre-check to be applied to all payments by the departmentalized Accounts Officers includes a check against
provision of funds also. It is an important part of the functions of the Accounts Office to see that no payment is made
in excess of the budget allotment. In order to exercise an effective check in this behalf, a separate register (DDO-
wise Bill Passing-cum-Expenditure Control Register –Form CAM –9) should be maintained in the Accounts Officer
for each Drawing Officer and by sub-heads and units of appropriation so as to ensure at the time of passing each
bill that the amount of the bill under check is covered by Budget allotment. If the amount of any bill leads to excess
over the Budget allotment or is not covered by an advance from the Contingency Fund, the Accounts Officer should
decline payment  under advice to the authority controlling the grant so that the latter could arrange for additional
funds. An Appropriation Audit Register (Form CAM – 62) shall be maintained.
NOTE.  –  In  cases  where  payment  of  a  bill/claim  would  lead  to  excess  over  the  provision  under  any  unit  of
appropriation the payment may be made by the Pay and Accounts Office only on receipt of an assurance in writing
from the Ministry/Head of Department controlling the grant that the expenditure involved is not on a New Service,
or New Instrument of Service; that necessary funds to accommodate the expenditure will be provided for in time by
issue of re- appropriation order, etc., that a note to the effect has been kept for further action, and that the grant as a
whole (i.e., separately under Revenue and Capital Sections) is not likely to be exceeded. This applies in respect of
any new item of expenditure, provision for which does not exist in the Budget (as distinct from expenditure on “New
Service” or “New Instrument Service” not provided in the Budget) as well as in cases where the existing provisions is
not  sufficient  to  cover  the  payments.  In  case  of  an  urgent  requirement  of  expenditure  attracting  the
provisions of New Service/New Instruments of Service and thereby supplementary demands through the
approval of Parliament, the same should be referred to Ministry of Finance. The excess expenditure in
such cases can be allowed by the concerned Financial Advisers only on the specific approval of Secretary
(Expenditure) that the necessary funds will be made available through the next batch of supplementary
demands for grant.
If such a contingency in regard to inevitable payment of a bill should arise towards the close of financial year and the
grant as a whole is likely to get exceeded thereby, order of the FA on behalf of the Chief Accounting Authority would
have to be sought.
In case the additional funds required are to be made available merely by reallocation (and not by re- appropriation)
of savings, if any, under the same sub-head of appropriation, the related claim will be passed for payment only after
additional funds therefor are allocated in writing by the Controlling Officer.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX - 11
[ See Rule 225 (viii) (b) ]
FORMULA FOR PRICE VARIATION CLAUSE
The formula for Price Variation should ordinarily include a fixed element, a material element and a labour element.
The figures representing the material element and the labour element should reflect the corresponding proportion
of input costs, while the fixed element may range from 10 to 25%. That portion of the price represented by the fixed
element will not be subject to variation. The portions of the price represented by the material element and labour
element alone will attract Price variation. The formula for Price variation will thus be :
P1  = P0    F + a  M1   +  b
Where P1 is the adjustment amount payable to the supplier (a minus figure will indicate a reduction in the Contract
P0 is the Contract Price at the base level.
F is the Fixed element not subject to Price variation.
a is the assigned percentage to the material element in the Contract price.
b is the assigned percentage to the labour element in the Contract Price.
L0 and L1 are the wage indices at the base month and year and at the month and year of calculation respectively. M0
and M1 are the material indices at the base month and year and at the month and year of calculation respectively.
If more than one major item of material is involved, the material element can be broken up into two or three
components such as Mx, My &Mz. Where price variation clause has to be provided for services (with insignificant
inputs of materials) as for example in getting Technical assistance normally paid in the form of per diem rates, the
price variation formula should have only two elements viz. a high fixed element and a labour element. The fixed
element can in such cases be 50% or more, depending on the mark-up by the supplier of the Periderm rate vis-à-vis
the wage rates.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
APPENDIX - 12
[See Rule 279 (1).]
RATES OF GUARANTEE FEE
Type of Borrowing
Rate of Fee
Borrowing under the market borrowing programme approved by the RBI
Borrowing under inter corporate transfers envisaged in the Annual Plan
Other Domestic Borrowings :
(i)  Pubic Sector including the cooperative sector.
(ii)  Other sectors
FORM GFR 1
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 1
[ Rule 65 (4) ) ]
APPLICATION FOR AN ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATION,
during the past three
Explanation of insufficiency of grant, recommendations and proposals for re-appropriation by -
Disbursing Officer :
Controlling Officer :
Head of Department :
Secretary to Government in Administrative Department. No…………………………………, dated
Order of sanction with details
Additional appropriation of Rs. ……………………..................................of source of appropriation Sanctioned.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 2
FORM GFR 2
[ See Paragraph 4 of Appendix - 2 ]
Ministry / Department / Union Territory :
Major Head :
(In thousands of Rupees)
Accounts 7 months
Explanation for increase / decrease (Minor Headwise)
FORM GFR 2A
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 2-A
[ See Paragraph 4 of Appendix - 2 ]
ESTIMATES OF FOREIGN GRANTS CONCERNING
THE MINISTRY / DEPARTMENT …….........................................
(In thousands of Rupees )
Amounts to be provided in
* A brief note may be added indicating the project on which aid is to be utilized. In the case of material and
equipment, the relevant grant and expenditure Heads of Account under which (i) utilization of material by Central
Government Departments / Projects, (ii) transfer of material to States, Union Territories and other Bodies will be
adjusted and also whether the utilization on transfer will be on Central Sector Scheme or Centrally Sponsored
Schemes should also be indicated. In cases where the aid material is proposed to be sold the Receipt Major Head
under which the proceeds will be credited should be indicated.
NOTE : Cash grants and assistance in the form of material and equipment should be indicated separately in
Columns 3 to 8.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 2B
FORM GFR 2 - B
[ See Paragraph 4 of Appendix - 2 ]
ESTIMATES OF INTEREST RECEIPTS AND LOAN REPAYMENTS
Ministry / Department ………….................…………………….
(In thousands of Rupees)
1.   State Governments*.
2.   Union Territory Governments*.
3.   Interest on Capital Outlay in
4.   Foreign Governments*.
(undertaking-wise details to be given)
(a)  Public Sector Undertakings. (b)
Private Sector Undertakings.
6.   Statutory Bodies (Port Trusts,
Municipalities, KVIC, Tea/Coffee
7.   Railways / P&T Reserve Funds.
8. Other parties (Co-operatives,
Educational Institutions, displaced
persons and other individual loanees
except Governments servants)*
9.   Government servants.
* Estimates for each State / Union Territory / Foreign Government /Statutory Body or Institution should be separately appended to
Forwarded in duplicate to the Ministry of Finance, Budget Division.
Ministry / Department ………......………………..........…..…
FORM GFR 3
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 3
[ See Rule 58 and Rule  64(1)) ]
LIABILITY REGISTER FOR THE YEAR ……………
cost, in any
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 3
Probable month and year
in which the expenditure
will be accounted for in
to be incurred
Record of Payment
[Col. 10 minus Col. 14(b)]
which it is
likely to be
NOTE :- Cols. 2, 3 and 4 will be operated upon only in the Register of Liabilities maintained by the Controlling
Officers in respect of the case reported by their Disbursing Officers.
*  If the balance of commitment is to be discharged during more than one financial year, the year-wise break-up of
the amount should be indicated.
FORM GFR 3A
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 3-A
LIABILITY STATEMENT FOR THE MONTH OF …………………………..
Part - I - Statement of Liabilities incurred during the month of report
cost, if any
(Col. 5 +
Probable month in
which the expenditure
will be accounted for
in the departmental
likely to be
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 3A
Part - II - Payments made against Liabilities and Liabilities
cancelled or finally paid off
Record of payment
Year(s) in which
the balance of
is likely to be
NOTE 2 -
In Col. 2, the number to be entered will be the serial number of the liability in the Liability Statement in
which is was first reported.
In the Remarks column, the following information should also be given :-
(i)  If payment against a liability is likely to be made, not in the month originally indicated, but in some
other  month,  the  latter  should  be  indicated.  If  change  in  the  month  of  payment  is  the  only
information to be given in respect of a liability, the Columns to be used will be 1, 2 and 5.
(ii)  Similarly, if the whole or part of a liability has been cancelled or otherwise extinguished, the fact
may be mentioned and brief reasons given.
*  If the balance of commitments is to be discharged during more than one financial year, the year -wise break- up of
the amount should be indicated.
FORM GFR 3A
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Part - III - Progressive amount of outstanding
Year(s) in which the balance of
commitments is likely to be discharged
NOTE. 1 -
NOTE. 2 -
This is a list of liabilities which are pending, that is, those which have not been paid off or otherwise
extinguished or cancelled.
In Column 2, the number to be entered will be the serial number of the liability in the Liability Statement
in which it was first reported.
*  If the balance of commitments is to be discharged during more than one financial year, the year -wise break- up of
the amount should be indicated.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 4
FORM GFR 4
[ See Paragraph 9 of Appendix - 3 ]
STATEMENT OF PROPOSALS FOR PRE-BUDGET DISCUSSION
STATEMENT OF BUDGET ESTIMATES
Sl.       Description as
shown in the
For the last two
(in crores of Rupees)
For the last two
A CENTRE'S EXPENDITURE
I. Establishment Expenditure
II. Central Sector Schemes
III. Other Central Expenditure
B. TRANSFERS TO STATES
IV. Centrally Sponsored Schemes
V. Finance Commission  Transfers
VI. Other Transfers to States
FORM GFR 4
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 4
[ See Paragraph 3.5 ]
OBJECT HEAD WISE SUMMARY EXPENDITURE
PART C-OBJECT HEADWISE SUMMARY
Revenue Capital Revenue Capital Revenue Capital
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 5
FORM GFR 5
[ See Rule 57 (4) (ii) and Rule 57 (5) (iii)]
REGISTER SHOWING EXPENSES BY HEADS OF ACCOUNT
Head of Account
(Unit of Appropriation)
Office of .................................................
Sub-Head of Grants
Voucher No./Token No. &
Date/Serial No. in Bill Register*
Add adjustment communicated by PAO
Total for the month
Total from 1st April Balance of
If an allotment is changed, necessary correction in the register should be made in red ink.
Allotment of expenditure under ‘Charged’ portion should be indicated distinctly.
This account should be despatched on the 3rdof the following month.
* Serial No. in Bill Register to be entered only in respect of bills passed by Cheque Drawing DDOs
under their cheque-drawing powers.
FORM GFR 6
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 6
[ See Rule 57 (4) (iv) ]
BROADSHEET FOR WATCHING RECEIPT OF
ACCOUNT FROM DISBURSING OFFICERS
Office of .................................................................
Minor Head ............................................................
Date of receipt of  account
NOTE 1. Districts are to be arranged according to alphabetical order.
NOTE 2. Dates of receipts should be noted in monthly columns. Reminder should be sent if not received by
the 7thof the month.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 7
FORM GFR 7
[ See Rule 57 (4) (vi) ]
Serial No. of the Disbursing Officers
Total expenditure ..............................
Add  Adjustment  communicated  by
Accounts Officer and not reckoned by
Add Total up to previous month...........
Progressive Total up-to-date ...............
FORM GFR 8
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 8
[ See Rule 57 (4) (viii), (5) (iv) & (6)]
Name of Office........................................................
(Part -III of Demands
from April to date
(ii) Total of all units
(Part -III of Demands
upto end of May
(ii) Total of all units
NOTE 1. Subsequent charges, if any, under Column 2 are to be made in red ink.
NOTE 2. Figures under Column 4 may be entered in pencil for facility of updating from month to month.
NOTE 3. Wherever variations between actual expenditure and proportion grant are large, suitable explanations
should be given in a “Remarks” column.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 9
FORM GFR 9
[ See Rule 57 (8) ]
BROADSHEET FOR WATCHING RECEIPT OF THE RETURNS FROM THE HEADS OF
DEPARTMENTS UNDER A DEPARTMENT OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Date of receipt of returns
NOTE 1. Dates of receipt should be noted in monthly columns. Reminders should be sent if returns are not received
by the prescribed date.
NOTE 2.  Returns relating to the Secretariat proper should also be maintained in the above form.
FORM GFR 10
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 10
[ See Rule 217 (iii) ]
REPORT OF SURPLUS, OBSOLETE AND
UNSERVICEABLE STORES FOR DISPOSAL
Mode of disposal
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 11
FORM GFR 11
[ See Rule 222]
on the spot.
If not, the
over of the
FORM GFR 12A
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GFR 12 – A
[(See Rule 238 (1)]
FORM OF UTILIZATION CERTIFICATE
FOR AUTONOMOUS BODIES OF THE GRANTEE ORGANIZATION
UTILIZATION CERTIFICATE FOR THE YEAR……………………………… in respect
GRANTS-IN-AID/SALARIES/CREATION OF CAPITAL ASSETS
1. Name of the Scheme......................................................................................
2. Whether recurring or non-recurring grants.......................................................
3. Grants position at the beginning of the Financial year
(i) Cash in Hand/Bank
(ii) Unadjusted advances
4. Details of grants received, expenditure incurred and closing balances: (Actuals)
[figure as at
Grant received during
Component wise utilization of grants:
of capital assets
Details of grants position at the end of the year
(i)   Cash in Hand/Bank
(ii)  Unadjusted Advances
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 12A
Certified that I have satisfied myself that the conditions on which grants were sanctioned have been duly fulfilled/are
being fulfilled and that I have exercised following checks to see that the money has been actually utilized for the
purpose for which it was sanctioned:
(i)  The  main  accounts  and  other  subsidiary  accounts  and  registers (including assets registers) are maintained
as  prescribed  in  the  relevant  Act/Rules/Standing  instructions  (mention  the  Act/Rules)  and  have  been  duly
audited by designated auditors. The figures depicted above tally with the audited figures mentioned in financial
(ii) There exist internal controls for safeguarding public funds/assets, watching outcomes and achievements of
physical targets against the financial inputs, ensuring quality in asset creation etc. & the periodic evaluation of
internal controls is exercised to ensure their effectiveness.
(iii) To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions have been entered that are in violation of relevant
Act/Rules/standing instructions and scheme guidelines.
(iv) The responsibilities among the key functionaries for execution of the scheme have been assigned in clear terms
and are not general in nature.
(v) The benefits were extended to the intended beneficiaries and only such areas/districts were covered where the
scheme was intended to operate.
(vi) The expenditure on various components of the scheme was in the proportions authorized as per the scheme
guidelines and terms and conditions of the grants-in-aid.
(vii) It has been ensured that the physical and financial performance under…………….. (name of the scheme has
been  according  to  the  requirements,  as  prescribed  in  the  guidelines  issued  by  Govt.  of  India  and  the
performance/targets achieved statement for the year to which the utilization of the fund resulted in outcomes
given at Annexure – I duly enclosed.
(viii)The utilization of the fund resulted in outcomes given at Annexure – II duly enclosed (to be formulated by the
Ministry/Department concerned as per their requirements/specifications.)
(ix) Details of various schemes executed by the agency through grants-in-aid received from the same Ministry or
from other Ministries is enclosed at Annexure –II (to be formulated by the Ministry/Department concerned as per
Chief Finance Officer
(Head of the Finance)
(Strike out inapplicable terms)
Head of  the Organisation
FORM GFR 12B
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GFR 12 – B
[ See Rule 256 (2) ]
FORM OF UTILIZATION CERTIFICATE
(1) Certified that out of the Loan of Rs. …….........…....……. SANCTIONED under ………........……….......……,
Rs. ………....................…….. has been utilized for the purpose for which it was sanctioned, and that the balance of
Rs. ………............... remaining unutilized at the end of the year ……............………… has been surrendered to the
Government (vide No. ……….………., dated………….........… ) / will be adjusted towards the loan payable during
the next financial year.
(2) Certified that I have satisfied myself that the conditions on which the loan was sanctioned have been duly
fulfilled/are being fulfilled and that I have exercised the following checks to see that the money was actually spent for
the purpose for which the loan was made.
Kinds of checks exercised
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 12C
GFR 12 – C
[(See Rule 239)]
FORM OF UTILIZATION CERTIFICATE (FOR STATE GOVERNMENTS)
(Where expenditure incurred by Govt. bodies only)
No. and date
Certified that out of Rs......................................................Of
grants  sanctioned  during  the  year....................in  favour  of
Letter No. given   in   the margin and Rs..........................on
account  of  unspent  balance  of  the  previous  year,  a  sum  of
Rs.................................has been utilized for the propose of
....................................for which it was sanctioned and  that
the  balance  of  Rs..............................remaining unutilized
at  the  end  of  the  year  has  been      surrendered      to
Government   (vide   No.
...........................dated.......................)/will  be  adjusted
t o w a r d s
t h e   n e x t
t h e   g r a n t s   p a y a b l e   d u r i n g
2. Certified that I have satisfied myself that the conditions on which the grants-in-aid was sanctioned have been
duly fulfilled/ are being fulfilled and that I have exercised the following checks to see that the money was
actually utilized for the propose for which it was sanctioned.
Kinds of checks exercised
PS: The UC shall disclose separately the actual expenditure incurred and loans and advances given to suppliers of
stores and assets, to construction agencies and like in accordance with scheme guidelines and in furtherance to
the scheme objectives, which do not constitute expenditure at the stage. These shall be treated as utilized grants
but allowed to be carried forward.
FORM GFR 13
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 13
[ See Rule 262]
STATEMENT OF AGGREGATE BALANCE OF LOAN(S) OUTSTANDING AS
ON 31ST MARCH, 20… AND DETAILS OF DEFAULTS
PAO / Pr. AO
Details of defaults
Amount of default
NOTE. - Statements may be prepared on separate sheets for each Major Head, with Minor Head-wise break-up.
Parties having aggregate outstanding balances of less than Rs. 5 lakhs each and which are not defaulters may be
grouped together with a common descriptive head such as “Regional Engineering Colleges”, etc., if possible or
“parties with small outstanding balance” under Column 3.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 14
FORM GFR 14
[ See Rule306. (3) ]
FORM OF SECURITY BOND (FIDELITY BOND DEPOSITED AS SECURITY)
bound unto the President of India, his successors and assigns (hereinafter referred to as “Government”) in the sum
of Rs………………(Rupees…………………) to be paid to the Government for which payment, well and truly to be
made, I bind myself, my heirs, executors, administrators, and legal representatives by these presents. Singed and
2. WHEREAS the above bounden A.B.........................................was on the day of...........................................
WHEREAS the said A.B………… by virtue of holding such office is bound to collect ……………………… (here
describe  the  nature  of  Cashier’s/  Storekeeper’s/Sub-storekeeper’s/Sub-ordinate’s  duties)  …………………
and to keep and render true and faithful accounts of his dealings with all property and money which may come
into his hands or possession under his control such accounts to be kept in the form and manner that may, from
time to time, be prescribed by duly constituted authority, and also to prepare and submit such returns, accounts
and other documents as may from time to time be required of him.
3. AND WHEREAS the said A.B…………………has, in pursuance of Rule 270 of the General Financial Rules,
1963, delivered to and deposited with ……………… a Fidelity Bond issued by ……………Company for the
sum of Rs………………… (Rupees ………………) as Security for the due and faithful performance by the said
A.B………………… of the duties of his said office and of any other office requiring security to which he may be
appointed at any time and of other duties which may be required of him while holding any office as aforesaid
and for the purpose of securing and indemnifying the Government against all loss, injury, damage, costs, or
expenses which the Government may, in any way, suffer, sustain or pay by reason of misconduct, neglect,
oversight or any other act of omission of the said A.B……………………… or of any person or persons acting
under him or for whom he may be responsible.
4.  AND WHEREAS the said A.B……………………… has entered into the above Bond in the sum of
……………………… conditioned for the due performance by him the said A.B…………………… of the duties of
the said office and of other duties appertaining thereto or which may lawfully be required of him and to
indemnify the Government against loss from or by reason of the acts or defaults of the said A.B…………………
and of all and every person and persons aforesaid.
5.  NOW THE CONDITION of the above written Bond is such that of the said A.B…………………… has whilst he
has held the said office of …………………… as aforesaid always duly performed and fulfilled the duties of his
said office and if he shall, whilst he shall hold the said office or any other office requiring security to which he
may  be  appointed,  or  in  which  he  may  act,  always  duly  perform  and  fulfil  all  and  every  duties  thereof
respectively and other duties which may from time to time be required of him while holding any such office as
aforesaid, and shall duly pay into the Government Treasury  at  …………………………  all  such  money  and
securities  for  money  as  are  payable  or  deliverable  to Government and shall come into his possession or
control by reason of the said office and shall duly account for and deliver up all moneys, papers and other
property  which  shall  come  into  his  possession  or  control  by  reason  of  the  said  office  and  if  the  said
A.B……………… his heirs, executors, administrators or legal representatives shall pay or cause to be paid unto
the Government the amount of any loss and /or defalcation in the accounts of the said ……………………
within  24  hours  after  the  amount  of  such  loss  and  /or  defalcation  shall  have  been  demanded  from
the  said A.B…………… by the ………………… such demand to be in writing and left at the office or last known
place of residence of the said A.B………………… and shall also at all times indemnify and save, and keep
harmless the Government from all and every loss, injury, damage, actions, suits, proceedings, costs, charges
and expenses which has been or shall or may at any time or times hereafter during the service or employment of
the  said  A.B………………………  in  such  office  as  aforesaid,  or  any  such  offices  aforesaid,  be  sustained,
incurred,  suffered  brought,  sued  or  commenced  or  paid  by  the  Government  by  reason  of  any  act,
FORM GFR 14
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
embezzlement, defalcation, mismanagement, neglect, failure, misconduct, default, disobedience, omission, or
insolvency of the said A.B……………………… or of any person or persons acting under him or for whom he
may be responsible, then the above written Bond shall be void and of no effect, otherwise the same shall be and
remain in full force.
6.  PROVIDED ALWAYS and it is hereby declared and agreed by and between the parties hereto that the said Fidelity
Bond No……………… delivered and deposited as aforesaid shall be and remain at the disposal of the said
officer for the time being or the Government as and for part and additional security over and above the above
written  Bond  to  the  Government,  for  the  indemnity  and  other  purposes  aforesaid  with  full  power  to  the
Government or an officer duly authorized in that behalf to obtain and receive payment of the sum or sums of
money recoverable or to be received, upon or by virtue of the said Fidelity Bond or a sufficient portion thereof
and all benefits and advantages thereof and to apply the same in and towards the indemnity as aforesaid of the
7.  AND  it  is  hereby  further  agreed  and  declared  by  and  between  the  parties  hereto  that  the  said
A.B……………………… shall keep the said Fidelity Bond issued by the said company in full force by payment of
the premia and as when they fall due and by otherwise conforming to the rules of the said company relating
8.  PROVIDED ALWAYS that cancellation or lapse at any time of the said Fidelity Bond shall not be deemed to affect
or prejudice the right of the Government to take proceedings upon or under this said Bond against the said
……………………… in case any breach of the condition of this Bond shall be discovered after the cancellation
or lapse of the said Fidelity Bond but the responsibility of the A.B. ………………………… shall at all times
continue and but the Government shall be fully indemnified against all such loss or damage as aforesaid at any
9 PROVIDED FURTHER that nothing herein contained nor in the Fidelity Bond so deposited shall be deemed to
limit the liability of the said A.B…………… in respect of matters aforesaid to the forfeiture of the said sum of
Rupees…………………   or   part   or   parts thereof   and that   if   the   said   sum   be found   insufficient to
indemnify the Government in full for any loss or damage sustained by them in respect of matters aforesaid or
any of them the said A.B………………… shall pay to Government on demand such further sum as shall be
deemed by…………………… to be necessary in addition to the said Fidelity Bond of Rs…………………………
to cover such loss or damage as aforesaid and that the Government shall be entitled to recover such further sum
payable as aforesaid in any manner open to them.
10. The stamp duty, if any, on this Bond shall be borne by the Government.
1. Signed and delivered by the above named A.B…………….. in the presence of …………………..
2. Signed for and on behalf of the President of India by ……………… the ……………… being the person directed
or authorized by him in that behalf in the presence of ……………………
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 15
FORM GFR 15
[ See Rule 253 (2) (ii) ]
FORM OF WRITTEN UNDERTAKING TO BE EXECUTED BY AN UNDERTAKING /
CORPORATION WHOLLY OWNED BY THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
AT THE TIME OF SANCTIONING OF A LOAN
Memorandum of written undertaking given on the ……………… day of …………………… two thousand and
……………………… by a company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 /the Companies Act,
1956,/ the Companies Act, 2013,having its registered office …………………… a body corporate incorporated
under the same name and style and by under ……………… (Act No…………… of ……………) having its office at
……………………a  society  registered  under  the  Societies  Registration  Act  (21  of  1860)  having  its  office
at……………… (hereinafter called ‘the Company / Corporation’ which expression shall include its successors and
assigns) to the President of India (hereinafter called ‘the President’ which expression shall include his successors and
WHEREAS  the  said  Company  /  Corporation,  etc.,  applied  to  the  President  for  a  loan  of  Rs……………………
(Rupees………………………)  only.  AND  WHEREAS  the  President  has  agreed  to  lend  an  amount  of  Rs………
(Rupees…………………………  only)  to  the  said  Company  /  Corporation,  etc.,  on  the  terms  and  conditions
prescribed  in  the  Government  of  India,  Ministry  of  ………………………  (Department  of  ………………………)
Now  IT  IS  HEREBY  AGREED  by  the  said  Company  /  Corporation,  etc.,  that,  in  consideration  of  the  sum  of
Rs………………  (Rupees…………………  only)  lent  by  the  President  to  the  Company  /  Corporation  etc.,  the
Company / Corporation, etc., hereby agree in accordance with the said terms and conditions –
(i)  To repay the loan in …………………… annual equal instalments the first instalment repayable from the
…………………… anniversary of the date of drawal;
(ii)  To pay interest at the rate or …………% per annum on the principal payable on each anniversary;  and
(iii)  In case of default in the payment of the instalment of the loan in accordance with (i) above and / or interest in
accordance with (ii) above, pay interest at penal rate of ……………………% per annum on such overdue
IT IS HEREBY FURTHER AGREED AND DECLARED that the said Company / Corporation, etc., shall not, without the
written  consent  of  the  President,  encumber  or  alienate,  create,  any  mortgage  lien  or  charge  by  way  of
hypothecation, pledge otherwise, or create other encumbrances of any kind whatsoever any part of its land or
buildings or other structure, and / or plant, machinery or any other fixed assets owned by them.
AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED that the said principal amount lent by the President as aforesaid shall be used by the
Company / Corporation, etc., only for the purpose or purposes for which the aforesaid amount was sanctioned and
for no other purpose whatsoever.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF these presents have been executed by the said Company / Corporation the day and year
first above written.
THE PRESIDENT of India has agreed to bear the stamp duty, if any, chargeable on this document. Signed for and on
behalf of…………………..Company / Corporation, etc., by
Shri. ..……..........................… (Name and Designation) in the presence of
FORM GFR 16
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 16
[ see Rule 286 (1) ]
CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER OF CHARGE
Certified that I /we have in the forenoon / afternoon of this day respectively made over and received charge of the
(Name in Block Letters)
(Name in Block Letters)
(For use in Audit Office / PAO only)
NOTE :- Separate certificate (as per Form appended) also to be used where transfer / assumption of charge
involves responsibilities for Cash, Stores etc.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 16 (APPENDIX)
[ See Rule 286(1) ]
CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER OF CHARGE IN RESPECT OF TRANSFER /
ASSUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR CASH, STORES, ETC.
Certified that I/we have in the forenoon / afternoon of this day …………… [date to be indicated] respectively made
over and assumed charge and responsibility of the following :-
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 16A
I hereby report myself for duty this day……………….............…… forenoon / afternoon after availing of leave from
(Name in Block Letters)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 17
FORM GFR 17
[ See Rule306. (3) ]
GENERAL INSURANCE CORPORATION OF INDIA AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
FIDELITY GUARANTEE POLICY
IN CONSIDERATION OF the first premium shown in the First Schedule and subject to the terms and conditions
contained herein or endorsed herein which are to be deemed conditions precedent to any liability on the part of the
Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter called “Corporation”) so far as they relate to anything to be done or
complied  with  by  the  Employer,  the  Corporation  agrees  and  binds  itself  to  make  good  and  reimburse  to  the
Employer all such direct pecuniary loss not exceeding the amount of guarantee, as the Employer shall sustain by any
act or acts of dishonesty, default or negligence committed by the employed / any of the employed (a) during the
currency of this insurance and (b) during the uninterrupted continuance of employment of such employed and (c) in
connection with his occupation and duties AND DISCOVERED during the currency of this insurance or within a
reasonable time thereafter or within twelve months after determination of such employment whichever event shall
The proposal for this insurance made by or on behalf of the Employer together with any correspondence relative
thereto shall be incorporated herein and be the basis of this contract and of every renewal.
The Employed :
The amount of Guarantee Rs.
Occupation and duties:
The first premium Rs.
The renewal date
THE FIRST SCHEDULE
N a m e
THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA
The ………day of ……… in each year.
The currency of this insurance: The period or periods from the date written against the respective names of the
Employed to the then next renewal date and any year thereafter in respect to which the Corporation shall agree to
accept and Employer or Employed shall pay the annual premium specified in the Second Schedule hereto.
THE SECOND SCHEDULE
In witness whereof this Bond has been signed at …………......…… this day of ……………………20.........
N.B.-For your own protection it is incumbent upon you to read your policy and its conditions to ascertain that it
is made out in accordance with your intentions.
1 The name of the Company to be inserted in ink at the time of execution of this form.
FORM GFR 17
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
In this policy the expression shall bear the respective meanings attached to them in the First Schedule hereto
1.   The Corporation shall not be liable to make any payment hereunder if the nature of the business of the Employer
of the duties or conditions of service shall be changed or the remuneration or any of the Employed reduced
without the sanction of the Corporation or if the precautions and checks for securing accuracy of accounts shall
not be duly observed.
2.   Notice in writing shall be given to the Corporation’s office as soon as possible after any act or acts of dishonesty,
default or negligence on the part of any of the employed or of reasonable cause of suspicion thereof or any
improper conduct shall have come to the knowledge of the Employer or of any representatives of the employer
to whom is entrusted the duty of superintendence over any of the Employed and no amount shall be payable
under this policy in respect of that Employed by reason of any act committed after such knowledge shall have
come to the Employer or his said representatives. Within three months after such notice the Employer shall
deliver to the Corporation full details of his claim and shall furnish proof of the correctness of such claim. All
books of accounts of the Employer or any Accountant’s report thereon shall be open to the inspection of the
Corporation and the Employer shall give all information and assistance to enable the Corporation to sue for
and obtain reimbursement by any one of the Employed or by his estate of any moneys which the Corporation
shall have paid or become liable to pay under this Policy. Provided always that the Corporation shall not be
entitled to the disclosure of   any record or information in respect of which the Employer is entitled to claim
privilege in a Court of Law under Sections 123 and 124 of the Indian Evidence Act.
3.   Any moneys of any one of the Employed in respect of whom a claim is made in the hands of the Employer and
any money which but for any act of fraud or dishonesty committed by such one of Employed would have been
due to that Employed from the Employer shall be deducted from the amount otherwise payable under the Policy.
Provided that the Employee is entitled under the law to make such deduction. Provided further that in cases in
which the loss to the Employer is in excess of the maximum amount payable under the policy, the moneys
aforesaid will be applied in the first place to make good the amount of such excess and the balance, if any, shall
be  deducted  as  herein  provided.  The  Employer  and  the  Corporation  shall  share    any    other    recovery
(excluding  insurance  and  reinsurance  and  any  counter  security  taken  by Corporation) made by either on
account of any loss in the proportions that the amount of the loss borne by each bears to the total amount of the
4.     Notwithstanding   anything   herein   contained   to   the   contrary   it   is   also   agreed   that   the   Corporation
guarantees to the Employer that the Employed shall honestly and faithfully account to the Employer for all
moneys or valuables or property which they shall receive or be entrusted with on account of the Employer either
in their personal or individual capacity or as member of group working conjointly with other members and that
the  Corporation  will  make  good  and  reimburse  to  the  Employer  such  loss  not  exceeding  the  amount  of
guarantee  as  the  Employer  may  sustain  by  any  act  or  acts  of  default  or  dishonesty  or  negligence  of  the
Employed in the capacity and employment aforesaid and that when individual liability cannot be brought home
to the Employed the amount to be made good shall be that which falls to the share of the Employed calculating
from the total number of men forming such group, i.e., the total loss divided by the total number of men
employed on the particular work.
5.     The Corporation also agrees that during the period in which the guarantee shall be in force the particulars
contained in the Second Schedule shall be with the consent of Employer and on previous notice to and on
payment  to  the  Corporation  of  any  additional  proportionate  premium  that  may  become  payable  in
consequence of any change in the employed by reason of promotion or otherwise be varied as circumstances
may require and such additional persona as may be taken into the employment of the employer referred to in
the Schedule hereof during such period shall with such consent aforesaid and on previous notice to and on
payment to the Corporation of a further proportionate premium at the rate for the time being applicable be
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 17
added to and included in the said Schedule and the expression Employed used throughout this policy shall as
from the respective date on which the names shall be included in the said schedule be deemed to include all
persons whether previously named in the said Schedule or subsequently added thereto as aforesaid.
If  any  question  or  difference  shall  arise  between  the  parties  hereto  or  their  respective  representatives
touching these presents or the construction hereof or as to the rights, duties or obligations of any persons
hereunder or as to any other matter in anywise arising out of or connected with the subject-matter of these
presents,   the same   shall be referred to a single   Arbitrator   to be named by the Government of India. The
Arbitrator so named shall be an officer of Government and shall have all the powers conferred on Arbitrators
under the Indian Arbitration Act. The costs of the reference and award shall be in the discretion of the Arbitrator.
The making of an award in such  reference shall be a condition  precedent to  any liability of the Corporation or
any right   of action against the Corporation in respect of such difference. If the Corporation shall disclaim
liability for any claim hereunder and such claim shall not within twelve calendar months from the date of such
disclaimer have been referred to arbitration under the provision herein contained then the  claim shall for  all
purpose be deemed to  have been abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.
7. The   expression "Government of India" for the purpose of Clause   6 above   shall mean the   Secretary to the
Government  of  India  in  the  Administrative  Ministry/ Head   of  Department  under   which  the  employed
FORM GFR 18
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 18
[ See Rule 211. (ii)      ]
Pages Source Class
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 19
FORM GFR 19
[ See Rule250. (1) (viii) ]
NOTICE TO BORROWER ABOUT THE DUE DATE
FOR REPAYMENT OF LOAN AND INTEREST THEREON
Office of the Controller of Accounts, Ministry / Department of ………….......…… New Delhi, dated the …….......….
Subject :-Repayment of loan and payment of interest thereon.
According to the terms of the loan of Rs………………… sanctioned to you, vide the Ministry / Department
instalment and / or interest thereon, detailed below, will become due on…………………………
2. Please arrange the payment by the due date. It should be noted that the amount of interest has been calculated
on the assumption that payment will be arranged promptly; otherwise it will be revised upwards in accordance
with the terms of the loan.
3. The amounts due should be tendered, on or before the due date at the …………………… (New Delhi Head
Office / Main Office of the Public Sector Bank (PSB) accredited to the Ministry / Department in cash or by cheque
or draft drawn on any Scheduled Bank / New Delhi, in favour of the aforesaid PSB Branch. The payment should
be accompanied by a memorandum or challan, in duplicate, giving the following details :-
(iii)  No. and date of loan sanction letter with the loan amount sanctioned ………………………….
(iv)  Amount due for payment, separately for interest and payment…………………………
(vi) The head of the account indicated below, to which the amounts will be adjusted in Government accounts,
should be included in the challan:
Instalment of Principal.
Head of Account
4.  Separate cheque / draft and challans should be submitted for payment of principal and interest.
5.  For outstation loanees, payment of dues together with memorandum / challans is to be arranged through their
Bank to the aforesaid PSB Branch in New Delhi by the due date.
FORM GFR 20
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 20
[See Rule 305 (1) ]
REGISTER OF POLICY HOLDER
Name of Policy holder
Monthly Premium rate
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 21
FORM GFR 21
[ See Rule 234}
REGISTER OF GRANTS TO BE MAINTAINED BY THE SANCTIONING AUTHORITY
Number and date of sanction letter.
Purpose of grant.
(iv) Conditions, if any, attached to the grant.
Amount of the Bill.
(vii) Whether conditions attached to the grant have been accepted by the grantee without reservation. (viii)
Dated initials of the sanctioning authority.
Date  by  which  statements of  accounts along  with utilization  certificate,  etc.,  are  required  to be
furnished by the grantee.
Date by which utilization certificate is required to be furnished by sanctioning authority to the Accounts
Officer, as the case may be.
Date by which the statements of accounts, etc., are actually received. (In case there has been delay in the
receipt of these statements, the reasons therefor as well as efforts made by the sanctioning authority to
expedite submission of such statements may be clearly indicated).
(xii) Date of submission of utilization certificate to PAO (in case there has been delay in submission of
utilization certificate, the reasons therefor may be clearly indicated).
(xiii) Unspent balance, if any, also indicating whether the unspent balance has been surrendered by the
grantee Institution / Organisation.
FORM GFR 22
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR - 22
[ See Rule211 (ii) (a) ]
REGISTER OF FIXED ASSETS
Name and description of the Fixed Assets ..................................................................
Particulars of supplier
Location of the
NOTE : The items of similar nature but having significant distinctive features (e.g. study table, office table, computer
table, etc.) should be accounted for separately in stock.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 23
FORM GFR 23
[ See Rule211 (ii) (b) ]
STOCK REGISTER OF CONSUMABLES SUCH AS STATIONERY,
CHEMICALS, SPARE PARTS ETC.
Name of Article.................................................      Unit of Accounts  .................................................
NOTE : User’s indent in original shall be treated as issue voucher. Issue voucher number shall be in consecutive
order, financial year wise and it should be noted on each indent.
FORM GFR 24
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 24
[ See Rule211 (ii) (d) ]
REGISTER OF ASSETS OF HISTORICAL / ARTISTIC VALUE
Name of Asset.......................................
make it an asset of
historic /artistic value
of the asset
NOTE 1 : The custodian shall take appropriate measures for preservation of the assets.
NOTE 2 : The present value of the asset should be ascertained by obtaining appropriate valuation from an
expert agency and the same is indicated in Column 3, every five years.
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 25
FORM GFR 25
[ See Rule 281. (2) & (3) ]
Name of Ministry /
the PSU etc
No. & Date]
[ MOF ID No.,
& date through
[ Rs. In crore ]
interest etc at
the end of
NOTES - 1 : For the purpose of Column - 8 the sectors are as under :-
(i) Power (ii) Cooperative (iii) Irrigation (iv) Roads & Transport (v) Urban Development & Housing (vi) Other Infrastructure
(vii) Any other. 2 : For the purpose of Column - 7 the classification is indicated in Rule 281 (4).
FORM GFR 26
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
FORM GFR 26
[ See Rule277(v). ]
FURNISHING OF DATA REGARDING GUARANTEES TO
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Name of the Ministry/Department :
Name of Public Sector Undertaking / entity :
If audited by
CAG, profit after
tax, taking into
In case of
by BIFR the
Where ‘X’ is the immediate preceding financial year.
2. In case of proposal seeking extension of guarantee it may specifically be indicated whether the guarantee fee for
the preceding financial year has been paid or not. The amount paid and date of payment should be indicated. In
case of default  in  payment   it  may  be  indicated  whether  default  fee  in  terms  of  Rule  279  (3)  has  been
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter  - 1 (Introduction)
Chapter – 2 (General System of Financial Management)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter - 3 (Budget Formulation and Implementation)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 4 (Government Accounts)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter -  5 (Works)
Chapter – 6 (Procurement of goods and services)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
141 A (1)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 7 (Inventory Management)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 8 (Contract Management)
Chapter – 9 (Grants-in-aid and Loans)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
215 (2) (shifted as Rule 232)
215 (3) (shifted as Rule 233)
(shifted as Rule 234)
(shifted as Rule 240)
(shifted as 241)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 10 (Budgeting and Accounting of Externally Aided Projects)
Chapter – 11 (Government Guarantees)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
Chapter – 12 (Miscellaneous Subjects)
Shifted to 277 (vi)
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
GENERAL FINANCIAL RULES 2017
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure