Courses Offered by
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Course - List
200 - Level Courses
● Compulsory Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Maths for Computing
Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning
Principles of Computer Systems - I
Principles of Computer Systems - II
Principles of Programming Languages
300 - Level Courses
● Compulsory Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (300)
Maths for Big Data
400 - Level Courses
● Compulsory Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Data Visualization (400)
Deep Learning (400)
Dependable AI (400)
Optimization in ML
Theory of Computation
400 - Level Courses
● Elective Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Advanced Data Structures
Computational Cognition & Behavior Modeling
ICT for Development
Introduction to Computer Graphics (400)
Visual Computing Lab
700 - Level Courses
● Preliminary Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Bridge course on DSA
Data Structures and Practices
700 - Level Courses
● Core Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Advanced Data Structures & Algorithms
Algorithms for Big Data
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (700)
Computer Architecture (700)
Deep Learning (700)
Dependable AI (700)
Machine Learning (700)
Software and Data Engineering
700 - Level Courses
● Elective Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Advanced Artiﬁcial Intelligence (700)
Advanced Computer Graphics
Advanced Machine Learning
Ad-Hoc Wireless Networks
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Transportation
Computational Social Choice Theory
Computer Graphics (700)
Computer Network Protocols and Applications
Crowd-sourcing and human-computing
Data Visualization (700)
Digital Image Analysis
Distributed Database Systems
Edge and Fog Computing
Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulations in AI
Fundamentals of Machine Learning
Graph Theory and Applications
Hardware Software Co-design
Introduction to AR and VR
Introduction to Blockchain
Introduction to Wireless Ad hoc Networks
Machine Learning in Epidemiology
Machine Learning with Big Data
Medical Image Analysis
Mobile and Pervasive Computing
5G Mobile Networks
Natural Language Understanding
Neuromorphic Computing and Design
Principles of Biological Vision and Applications
Resource Constrained AI
Security and Its Applications
Social Network Analysis
Soft Computing Techniques
Software Deﬁned Networks
Software Testing and Quality Assurance
Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs)
Virtualization and Cloud Computing
700 - Level Courses
● Selected / Special Topics (CSE and AI&DS)
Selected Topics in Artiﬁcial Intelligence - I
Selected Topics in Artiﬁcial Intelligence - II
Selected Topics in Artiﬁcial Intelligence - III
Selected Topics in Computer Science - I
Selected Topics in Computer Science - II
Selected Topics in Computer Science - III
Special Topics in Algorithms
200 - Level Courses
● Compulsory Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Data Structures and Algorithms
Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2 [4]
B.Tech of all branches
Introduction to Computer
1. To introduce and practice the implementation of various data structures used for indexing,
searching, and sorting operations.
2. To introduce basic mathematical techniques for algorithm analysis and design.
1. Ability to design and implement appropriate data structures for indexing, searching, and sorting
operations for real-world problems.
2. Designing of new algorithms using standard data structures.
3. Analyzing the time and space complexities of standard data structures and basic algorithms.
Algorithm analysis and complexity: Big/little -Oh, Omega, Theta notation, Recurrence equations. (2
Abstract data types: Linear data structures, Tree, Binary trees, Tree traversal, Applications. (7 Lectures)
Search trees: Binary search trees, Balanced search trees, AVL trees, B-Trees. (5 Lectures)
Heaps: Binary Heap, Heap order property and min/max heaps. (3 Lectures)
Sets: Disjoint set ADT, Basic operations on Sets, Union/Find algorithm. (2 Lectures)
Sorting algorithms: Bubble sort, Selection sort, Bucket sort, Insertion sort, Overview of Divide-and-
conquer, Quick sort, Merge sort. (6 Lectures)
Hashing: Hash tables and operations, Hash function, Open and closed hashing, External and internal
hashing, Collision resolving methods, Rehashing. (5 Lectures)
Graph algorithms: Deﬁnitions, Branch and bound, Backtracking, Representation, Traversal,
Shortest-path algorithms, Minimum Spanning Tree algorithm, Topological sorting. (8 Lectures)
Greedy techniques and Dynamic programming (4 Lectures)
2. Practically verifying and comparing run-time performance and asymptotic behavior of various data
Implementation of data structures using C programming language.
structures and related algorithms.
3. Applications of data structures from real-life scenarios.
M. A. WEISS (2002), Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C, Addison-Wesley, 2nd Edition.
T. H. CORMEN, C. E. LEISERSON, R.L. RIVEST, C. STEIN (2009),Introduction to Algorithms, MIT Press,
200 - Level Compulsory Course
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech CSE, AI&DS
Data Structures and Algorithms
Structure (L-T-P [C])
1. To introduce and implement various techniques for designing algorithms and advanced data
2. To learn space and time complexity analysis of algorithms.
1. Ability to choose and implement appropriate algorithm design techniques for solving problems.
2. Understand how the choice of data structures and algorithm design methods impact the
performance of programs.
3. Ability to analyze the worst-case and average-case behaviour of algorithms in terms of time and
Reasoning About Algorithms: P, NP, NP-completeness, Reductions, Complexity analysis. (5 lectures)
Graph Algorithms: Strongly-connected components, Kosaraju’s algorithm 1 and 2, Applications. (4
lectures) Greedy Techniques: Local versus Global optimality, Interval scheduling, Exchange
arguments. (5 lectures)
Divide-and-Conquer: Optimality, Recursive algorithms, Divide-and-Conquer recurrences, The Master
Theorem and applications, Non-uniform recurrences. (6 lectures)
Dynamic Programming: Reusing sub-computations (Sequence alignment, Bellman-Ford algorithm),
Precomputing (Floyd-Warshall algorithm, Johnson’s algorithm), Combinatorial problems. (Knapsack) (6
Linear Programming: Canonical and standard forms, Feasibility and optimization, Simplex algorithm. (5
Approximation Algorithms: Relative approximations, PAS and FPAS scheduling. (4 lectures)
Randomized Algorithms: Random guess (Quick select), Random guess with high conﬁdence (Karger’s
min-cut algorithm), Storing associative data (Hashing), Error bounds. (7 lectures)
T. H. CORMEN, C. E. LEISERSON, R.L. RIVEST, C. STEIN (2009), Introduction to Algorithms, MIT Press, 3rd
J. KLEINBERG, E. TARDOS (2005), Algorithm Design, Pearson Education, 1st Edition.
200 - Level Compulsory Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech (CSE, AI&DS)
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 0-0-4 [2]
To provide a theoretical and practical understanding of human-machine interaction (HMI) design,
including concepts of user centered and design thinking, usability, interfaces, rapid prototyping, and
1. The students will have:
2. A broad understanding of human-machine interaction and latest technologies.
3. Understanding of the perceptual and cognitive basis of human-machine interaction.
4. Knowledge of user centered design and techniques for rapid prototyping.
5. Knowledge of assessing usefulness and usability of a design
6. Introduction to approaches for gathering and analyzing interaction data, and conveying design
Lectures (discussions in the lab and web-based ﬂip pedagogy)
1. Theories and Research Methods in HMI
2. Understanding User Experience
3. Foundations and Concepts of Interaction
4. Prototyping Techniques
5. Prototyping Evaluation
6. Communicating User Needs and Requirements
7. Speculative Design
8. Case Studies
Laboratory and Assignments (primary approach)
1. Find a poorly designed item (anything).
Submit either a picture or sketch and describe why it is poorly designed. (Week 1)
2. Heuristic Evaluation and Interview (Week 1)
3. User Scenarios, Personas and Storyboards ((Week 2)
4. User Journeys (Week 3)
5. Wireframes: Paper and Digital Prototyping (Week 4)
6. Prototype Evaluation Study Design (Week 5, 6)
7. Value Sensitive Design Evaluation (Week 7, 8)
8. Design visual Interfaces (laptop, mobile) - e.g. gesture based (Week 9, 10)
9. Design voice interfaces - e.g. speech chatbot (Week 11, 12)
10. Design multimodal interactions (Week 13, 14)
H. SHARP, J. PREECE, Y. ROGERS (2019), Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Wiley,
200 - Level Compulsory Course
Maths for Computing
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech CSE, AI&DS
Structure (L-T-P [C])
1. To learn about languages, grammars, and computation models
2. To learn about computability
3. To learn basics of parsing techniques
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Model computer science problems using discrete mathematical structures
2. Distinguish between computable and non-computable problems
3. Develop understanding of properties of languages and design parsers
Discrete Structures: Can computers solve every problem? The limits of computing, Set theory, Relations
Proof techniques: Constructive, Contraposition, Contradiction, Mathematical Induction (5 Lectures)
Graph Theory: Properties of graphs, Graph matching and coloring. (6 Lectures)
Automata Theory: DFAs, NFAs, Equivalence of DFAs and NFAs, Closure properties of regular languages,
Regular expressions, Equivalence of regular expressions and NFAs, Nonregular languages, Context-Free
Grammars, Context-Free Languages. (10 Lectures)
Turing Machine: Introduction, Designing Turing machines, The Universal Turing machine. (5 Lectures)
Parsing Techniques: LR, LALR, Shift-Reduce parsers. (4 Lectures)
M. SIPSER (2014), Introduction to the Theory of Computation, Cengage Learning, 3rd Edition.
K.H. ROSEN (2018), Discrete Mathematics and its Applications, McGraw-Hill, 2018, 8th Edition.
J.E. HOPCROFT, R. MOTWANI, J.D. ULLMAN (2008), Pearson, Introduction to Automata Theory,
Languages, and Computation, 3rd Edition.
R. JOHNSONBAUGH (2017), Discrete Mathematics, Prentice Hall, 8th Edition.
Stanford CS103: http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs103/
200 - Level Compulsory Course
Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning
Computer Science and Engineering, AI&DS
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2
B.Tech (CSE, AI&DS, EE)
Introduction to Computer Science, Probability,
Statistics and Stochastic Processes
1. To understand various key paradigms for pattern classiﬁcation and machine learning approaches
2. To familiarize with the mathematical and statistical techniques used in pattern recognition and
3. To understand and differentiate among various pattern recognition and machine learning
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. To formulate a machine learning problem
2. Select an appropriate pattern analysis tool for analyzing data in a given feature space.
3. Apply pattern recognition and machine learning techniques such as classiﬁcation and feature
selection to practical applications and detect patterns in the data.
Introduction: Deﬁnitions, Datasets for Pattern Recognition, Different Paradigms of Pattern Recognition
Machine Learning, Data Normalization, Hypothesis Evaluation, VC-Dimensions and Distribution, Bias-
Variance Tradeoff, Regression (Linear) (8 Lectures)
Discriminative Methods: Distance-based methods, Linear Discriminant Functions, Decision Tree, Random
Decision Forest and Boosting (5 Lectures)
Bayes Decision Theory: Bayes decision rule, Minimum error rate classiﬁcation, Normal density and
discriminant functions, Bayesian networks (7 Lectures)
Parameter Estimation: Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian Parameter Estimation (3 Lectures)
Feature Selection and Dimensionality Reduction: PCA, LDA, ICA, SFFS, SBFS (4 Lectures)
Artiﬁcial Neural Networks: MLP, Backprop, and RBF-Net (4 Lectures)
Kernel Machines: Kernel Tricks, Support Vector Machines (primal and dual forms), K-SVR, K-PCA (6
Clustering: k-means clustering, Gaussian Mixture Modeling, EM-algorithm (5 Lectures)
Programming labs on Normalization, Visualization, Evaluation, Regressions, Decision Tree,
Bayes, Parameter Estimation, PCA, LDA, ANN, SVM, K-means, GMM, Feature Selection
1. R. O. DUDA, P. E. HART, D. G. STORK (2000), Pattern Classiﬁcation, Wiley-Blackwell, 2nd Edition.
1. C. M. BISHOP (2006), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer-Verlag New York,
2. T. M. MITCHELL (2017), Machine Learning, McGraw Hill Education, 1st Edition.
1. Introduction to Machine Learning, NPTEL Course Material, Department Computer Science
and Engineering, IIT Madras: http//nptel.ac.in/courses/106106139/
2. Machine Learning, Stanford University: https://see.stanford.edu/Course/CS229
200 - Level Compulsory Course
Principles of Computer Systems - I
CSE, AI & DS
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Prerequisite Maths for Computing
The Instructor will:
1. Explain necessary layered abstraction of a system
2. Provide an understanding of basic concepts of several hardware components and design of
Introduce language translation schemes
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design combinational and sequential circuits for a set of problems
2. Explain the working principles of several components of a computer
3. Design algorithms for language translations.
Introduction: Layered architecture of a system, Hardware, Software, Hardware-software Interaction (2
Digital Circuit Design: Combinational Circuits, Combinational Analysis and Design, Sequential Circuits,
Sequential Analysis and Design (10 Lectures)
Computer System Design: Instruction set Architecture, CPU, Performance analysis, Pipelining, Memory
Hierarchy, I/O, ILP (10 Lectures)
Language Translation: Levels of language translation, Compiler, Semantic Analysis, Code generation (6
Digital Logic Circuits, Digital Hardware, VHDL state machines, Machine Language Design, Memory,
CPU, Assembler, Parallel Programming.
1. S. WARFORD (2017), Computer Systems, Jones and Bartlett Learning, 5th Edition.
2. R. BRYANT, D. O’HALLARON (2016), Computer Systems A Programmer’s Perspective, Pearson,
1. Saltzer, J. and Kaashoek, F. (2009), Control Systems - Principles & Design, 3rd Edition, Morgan
2. John L. Hennesy, David A. Patterson (2017), Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach,
6th Edition, Morgan Kaufmann.
NPTEL Course, Foundations of Computer Systems Design, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106197/
200 - Level Compulsory Course
Principles of Computer Systems - II
Department CSE, AI & DS
B.Tech (AI & DS)
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Prerequisite Principles of Computer Systems - I (Same
The Instructor will:
1. Explain necessary layered abstraction of a system
2. Provide an understanding of the fundamentals of operating systems and networking
Introduce the concepts of Virtualization
The students will have the ability to:
1. Explain the working principles of operating systems
2. Design interconnected environments using basic networking protocols.
3. Apply concepts of Virtualization in a practical environment
Introduction: Layered architecture of a system, Kernel, Network-Operating System Interaction (4
Process Management: Process, process states, concurrent processes, inter-process communication,
Synchronization, Deadlock (12 Lectures)
Storage management: Memory Allocation, Virtual Memory, File Management (9 Lectures)
Network Design:Working principles, Layered Architecture, IP Addressing, Protocols for Transport, and
Application Layers. (12 Lectures)
Virtualization: Basics of Virtual Machines, Containers, Virtualization techniques, Cloud and Data
Centers (5 Lectures)
Introduction to the Linux environment, Process Management, and Synchronization, Scheduling,
Memory Management, Client-Server message passing, Internet protocols, IP addressing, peer to peer
1. S. WARFORD (2017), Computer Systems, Jones and Bartlett Learning, 5th Edition.
2. N.F. SCHNEIDEWIND, (2012), Computer, Network, Software, and Hardware Engineering with
Applications, Wiley-IEEE Press.
1. A. SILBERSCHATZ, P.B. GALVIN, G. GAGNE (2013), Operating System Concepts, Wiley 8th Edition.
2. S. DAS (2017), UNIX Concepts and Applications, Tata McGraw-Hill.
3. J. KUROSE, K.ROSS (2016), Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach, Pearson, 7th Edition.
1. NPTEL Course: Operating System Fundamentals,  https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/105/106105214/
2. NPTEL Course: Computer Network and Internet
200 - Level Compulsory Course
Prerequisites Data Structures and Algorithms, Computer
Principles of Programming Languages
Computer Science & Engineering
Architecture, Operating Systems
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
1. To introduce major programming paradigms, and principles and techniques involved in design and
implementation of modern programming languages.
2. To introduce frameworks for reasoning about programming languages.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify the abstract syntax of any programming language
2. Analyze and critique/appreciate the inherent philosophy of different programming languages
3. Design small domain-speciﬁc languages/language features and implement them as interpreters or
embeddings in another language.
Introduction: Study of principles of programming paradigms like imperative, functional, object-oriented
and logic programming. (2 Lectures)
Syntax and semantics of programming languages: Syntax and semi-formal semantic speciﬁcation using
attribute grammar. (4 Lectures)
Imperative Programming: Location, Reference and expressions, Assignment and Control, Data types,
Blocks, Procedures, Modules. (6 Lectures)
Object-oriented programming: Classes, Objects, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance and software
Functional programming: Function as ﬁrst-class objects, Higher order functions, Polymorphic data types,
Type checking, Type inferencing, Recursion, Lambda calculus. (6 Lectures)
Logic programming: Horn clauses, Uniﬁcation, SLD resolution, Backtracking, Cuts. (6 Lectures)
Concurrent programming: Processes, Synchronization primitives, Safety and liveness properties,
Multithreaded programs. (6 Lectures)
Case Studies: C++, Java, Haskell, Prolog, Python. (6 Lectures)
R. SETHI (2006), Programming Languages: Concepts and Principles, Pearson, 2nd Edition.
T. W. PRATT, M.V. SELKOWITZ (2000), Programming Languages: Design and Implementation, Pearson,
B.J. MacLENNAN (1999), Principles of Programming Languages: Design, Evaluation and
Implementation, Oxford University Press, 3rd Edition.
M. BEN-ARI (2005), Principles of Concurrent and Distributed Programming, Pearson, 2nd Edition.
J.C. MITCHELL (1996), Foundations for Programming Languages, MIT Press.
B.C. PIERCE (2002), Types and Programming Languages, MIT Press, 1st Edition.
H.P. BARENDREGT (2014), The Lambda Calculus: Its Syntax and Semantics, North-Holland, 2nd Edition.
D.P. FRIEDMAN, M. WAND (2008), Essentials of Programming Languages, MIT Press, 3rd Edition.
200 - Level Compulsory Course
Computer Science & Engineering
Introduction to Computer Science
Structure (L-T-P [C])
1. This course focuses on engineering practices and processes that development team uses to make
sure the team is setup for change
2. The course introduces practices, techniques and processes that can help team build high quality
Students are expected to have the ability to:
Comfortably and effectively participate in various techniques and processes for building scalable and
high quality software.
Introduction of Software Engineering: Need for software engineering, Software quality attributes,
product pipelines, Software life cycle models and processes, Requirement engineering using UML
Diagrams. (9 Lectures)
Software Architecture and Design: Design principles, Design Patterns, Architecture Versus Design,
Software Components and Connectors, Architecture Styles. (6 Lectures)
Essence of Modern Software Engineering: Software engineering essence, Essence language, Essence
kernel, Using essence kernel in agile development practices, Agile Principles, Agile process models
through essence kernel, Large scale complex development Using kernel. (13 Lectures)
Software Testing: Quality metrics, Coding style and Static analysis tools, Veriﬁcation and validation,
testing techniques and Test case generations. (7 Lectures)
Software Project Management: Software versioning and Continuous integration, Project management
and Risk analysis, Conﬁguration management, Cost analysis and estimation. (7 Lectures)
Assignment/Project on Software requirement acquisition, UML diagrams, Preparing software
requirement speciﬁcation, Practicing agile methods, User story, Backlog, Test case generation, Unit
testing, CI conﬁgurations, Cost estimation, Manpower management and Sprint analysis using Burn
R.S. PRESSMAN, B.R. MAXIM (2019), Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach, McGraw-Hill India,
2019, 9th Edition.
Mark Richards, Neal Ford (2020), Fundamentals of Software Architecture, O'Reilly Media, Inc.
L. BASS, P. CLEMENTS, R. KAZMAN (2012), Software Architecture in Practice, Pearson, 3rd Edition.
I. JACOBSON, H. LAWSON, P.W. NG, P.E. McMAHON, M. GOEDICKE (2019), The Essentials of Modern
Software Engineering, ACM Books.
300 - Level Courses
● Compulsory Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (300)
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
B.Tech (CSE, AI&DS)
Data Structures and Algorithms
(700) - CSL7xx
To provide the foundations for AI problem solving techniques and knowledge representation
The students are expected to have the ability to:
3. Compare different AI algorithms in terms of design issues, computational complexity, and
Identify and formulate appropriate AI methods for solving a problem.
Implement AI algorithms
Introduction: Uninformed search strategies, Greedy best-ﬁrst search, And-Or search, Uniform cost
search, A* search, Memory-bounded heuristic search (5 Lectures)
Local Search Techniques: Beam Search, Hill Climbing Search, Genetic Search techniques (2 lectures)
Constraint Satisfaction Problems: Backtracking search for CSPs, Local search for CSPs (4 Lectures)
Adversarial Search: Optimal Decision in Games, The minimax algorithm, Alpha-Beta pruning, Expectimax
search (5 Lectures)
Knowledge and Reasoning: Propositional Logic, Reasoning Patterns in propositional logic; First order
logic: syntax, semantics, Inference in First order logic, uniﬁcation and lifting, backward chaining,
resolution (7 Lectures)
Representation: Information extraction, representation techniques, foundations of Ontology (4 Lectures)
Planning: Situation Calculus, Deductive planning, STRIPES, sub-goal, Partial order planner (4 Lectures)
Bayesian Network and causality: Probabilistic models, directed and undirected models, inferencing,
reasoning, causality (6 lectures)
Reinforcement Learning: MDP, Policy, Q-value (5 Lectures)
S. RUSSEL, P. NORVIG (2020), Artiﬁcial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Pearson, 4th Edition.
1. E. RICH, K. KNIGHT, S. B. NAIR (2017), Artiﬁcial Intelligence, McGraw Hill Education, 3rd Edition.
2. J. PEARL (2009), Causality: Models, Reasoning and Inference, Cambridge University Press,
3. D. KOLLER, N. FRIEDMAN (2009), Probabilistic Graphical Models: Principles and Techniques, MIT
300 - Level Compulsory Course
CSE and EE
B. Tech. CSE
CSL3XX / EELXXX
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
1. To understand aspects of computer architecture and program performance
2. To provide essential understanding of different subsystems of modern computer system and design
aspects these subsystems
3. To introduce hands-on experience of computer architecture design and performance enhancement
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Identify basic components and design of a computer, including CPU, memories, and input/output
2. Identify issues involved in the instruction execution and various stages of instruction life stage
3. Identify issues related to performance improvement
Introduction: Basic computer organization, Components of computer systems,
representation. (3 Lectures)
Central Processing Unit: Arithmetic and Logic Unit;
Instruction sets; RISC, CISC, and ASIC/ASIP
paradigms; Various addressing modes; Assembly language programming; Instruction interpretation:
micro-operations and their RTL speciﬁcation; CPU design, Hardwired and microprogrammed,
Performance issues: Parallel processing, Pipelining, Hazards, Advanced parallelization techniques.
Cache Coherence protocols, Multicore Architecture (16 Lectures)
Memory Hierarchy: Memory organization, Various levels of memory architecture and their working
principles, Cache memory, Writing strategy, Coherence, Performance issues and enhancement techniques
for memory design. (14 Lectures)
Interfacing: I/O transfer techniques: Program controlled, Interrupt controlled and DMA; Introduction to
computer buses, Peripherals and current trends in architecture. (9 Lectures)
D.A. PATTERSON, J.L. HENNESSY (2008), Computer Organization and Design, Morgan Kaufmann,
W. STALLINGS (2015), Computer Organization and Architecture: Designing for Performance, Pearson
Education India, 10th Edition.
A.S. TANENBAUM (2013), Structured Computer Organization, Prentice Hall of India, 6th Edition.
V.C. HAMACHER, Z.G. VRANESIC, S.G. ZAKY (2011), Computer Organization, McGraw Hill, 5th Edition.
J.L. HENNESSY, D.A. PATTERSON (2017), Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, Morgan
Kaufmann, 6th Edition.
D.V. HALL, S.S.S.P. RAO (2017), Microprocessors and Interfacing, McGraw Hall, 3rd Edition.
300 - Level Compulsory Course
Computer Science and Engineering
Prob. Stat. and Stochastic Process
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-3 [4.5]
1. To understand the organization of computer networks, factors inﬂuencing the performance of
computer networks, and the reasons for having a variety of different types of networks.
2. To understand the Internet structure, various protocols of the Internet and how these protocols
address the standard problems of networking and the Internet.
3. Hands-on experience on networking fundamentals through practical sessions.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Explain essential protocols of computer networks in terms of design, implementation & operations.
2. Identify various design parameters such as latency, bandwidth, error rate, throughput, and their
inﬂuence on node/link utilization and performance
Introduction: Layer approach, Packet switching techniques, Performance metrics delay, loss, throughput,
bandwidth delay product, latency, Basic understanding of physical and data link layer. (8 Lectures)
Network Layer: Internetworking, Tunneling, Encapsulation, Fragmentation, Internet protocol and its
operation, Routing algorithms distance vector and link state algorithm and Routing protocols. (8
Transport Layer: Transmission Control Protocol, Flow control, Error control, Congestion control, Header,
Services, Connection management, Timers, Congestion control; User Datagram Protocol, Introduce low
protocols (WebRTC, LHLS), Applications (IoT and FOG, Real-time applications, ad-hoc wireless
protocols). (10 Lectures)
Applications: Network programming, Socket abstraction, Peer-to-peer architecture (P2P architecture),
server architecture, DNS, HTTP, FTP, SMTP, TelNet, etc. (7 Lectures)
Advanced Internetworking: Multicast routing, Queuing disciplines and buffer management techniques. (6
Network security: Public key and private key cryptography, Digital signature, Firewalls. (3 Lectures)
Networking hardware (Understanding cables, switches, routers, Setting up switching network, Setting
up subnets and routing across the subnets)
Socket programming - Development of client-server applications using sockets (possible examples, ﬁle
transfer, peer-peer applications, chat, network monitor etc.)
Networking commands - ifconﬁg, route, arp, arping, ping, netstat. tcpdump, host, nslookup, dig, ftp, scp,
ssh, ﬁnger, dhclient, dhcrelay etc.
Protocol analyzer - closely looking at protocols (HTTP, TCP, UDP, ICMP, 802. 3, DHCP, DNS etc. ) headers
and analyzing the interactions between client and server of different applications
QualNet simulator/Packet Tracer (Implementation of ARQs - Stop-and-wait, Sliding Window Go Back N
etc. Verifying operations of routing protocols, inﬂuence of congestion on end users performance,
congestion control algorithms Reno, New Reno, Cubic, router buffer size on end users performance.
K.W. ROSS, J.F. KUROSE (2016), Computer Networks: A Top Down Approach, Pearson, 7th Edition.
W. STALLINGS (2013), Data and Computer Communications, Pearson, 10th Edition.
L.L. PETERSON, B.S. DAVIE (2020), Computer Networks: A Systems Approach, Morgan Kaufmann, 6th
300 - Level Compulsory Course
Computer Science and Engineering
Data Structures and Algorithms
Structure (L-T-P [C])
1. To understand concepts of database design, database management systems and their applications,
data modeling, and query languages.
2. To understand different ﬁle-structures, transaction management schemes, concurrency control
processes, database recovery mechanisms, query processing and optimization.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply different data modeling methods to requirement analysis, design, and implementation of
2. Deduce normalized forms for eﬃcient relational database design.
3. Use appropriate storage and access structures.
4. Use techniques for transaction management, concurrency control and recovery.
5. Analyze complexity issues of query execution.
Preliminaries: Database system concepts and architecture. (2 Lectures)
Semantic Data Model: Entity-Relationship (ER) model, Enhanced Entity-Relationship (EER) model.
Relational Model and Languages: Relational data model, Relational database constraints, Relational
design by ER- and EER-to-relational mapping, Relational algebra and Relational calculus. (9 Lectures)
SQL: Schema deﬁnition, Constraints, Queries, Views. (5 Lectures)
Database Design Theory: Functional dependencies, Normalization. (5 Lectures)
Algorithms for Query Processing and Query Optimization (5 Lectures)
Database File Organization: Disk storage, File structures, Hashing techniques, Indexing structures. (3
Database Transaction Processing: Transaction concepts and theory, Concurrency control protocols,
recovery protocols. (6 Lectures)
Advanced Databases: Distributed databases, Object-oriented databases, Multimedia databases,
Handling unstructured data, Big data, NoSQL databases. (3 Lectures)
Exercises in SQL covering: Data deﬁnition, Data manipulation, Data retrieval, Transaction control
Exercises in PL/SQL covering procedures, functions, loops, triggers
NoSQL data organization and query optimization.
R. ELMASRI, S.B. NAVATHE (2017), Fundamentals of Database Systems, Pearson Education, 7th Edition.
1. R. RAMAKRISHNAN, J. GEHRKE (2014), Database Management Systems, McGraw-Hill, 3rd Edition.
2. H.G. MOLINA, J. ULLMAN, J. WIDOM (2014), Database Systems: The Complete Book,
Pearson, 2nd Edition.
3. P. RAJ, A. RAMAN, D. NAGARAJ, S. DUGGIRALA (2015), High-Performance Big-Data
Analytics: Computing Systems and Approaches, Springer, 1st Edition.
4. N. SABHARWAL, S. GUPTA EDWARD (2014), Big Data NoSQL: Architecting MongoDB,
CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 1st Edition.
5. K. BANKER, P. BAKKUM, S. VERCH, D. GARRETT, T. HAWKINS (2016), MongoDB in Action, Manning
Publications, 2nd Edition.
6. G. HARRISON (2015), Next Generation Databases: NoSQL and Big Data, Apress, 1st Edition.
300 - Level Compulsory Course
Computer Science and Engineering, Maths
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-3 [3]
Principles of Computer System - II/ Operating
The Instructor will:
2. Explore applications in data science and big data projects
Introduce fundamental concepts in representing data, accessing it and analysing it
The students will have the ability to:
1. Develop suitable data science ecosystem for the given application
2. Understand various data storage and retrieval techniques
3. Understand SQL and NoSQL databases and their usage
4. Analyse data using Python and Python-based tools
Introduction: Data source, Big Data, Structured and unstructured data (2 Lectures)
Data Models and Storage: Relational databases, NoSQL database, normalized and denormalized
data models, Data cleaning, Distributed Data Storage and Management, Hashing, Indexing ( 14
Query processing: Querying big data using SQL and NoSQL, Elastic Search, Query optimization,
speeding up, maintaining ACID property, Design Patterns, Data reliability, quality and provenance,
Distributed query processing, Query optimization and Processing (16 Lectures)
Data Warehousing: OLAP, OLTP (4 Lectures)
Streaming Data analytics: In-memory Analytics, data pipelines and dashboards, Predictive Analytics (6
Indexing implementation for the structured data and unstructured data
Lab exercises should be in accordance with the theory Lectures. The lab sessions may cover the
1. Data Collection Techniques
3. SQL queries (schema, DDL, DML, DQL)
4. Data format interchange using XML, JSON
5. NoSQL system (HBase, Hive, MongoDB)
6. Data wrangling, data operations (e.g. NumPy)
7. Hadoop, Spark and MapReduce
1. M. KLEPPMANN (2017), Designing Data-Intensive Applications The Big Ideas Behind Reliable,
Scalable, and Maintainable Systems, O’Reilly.
2. L. WEISE (2015), Advanced Data Management: For SQL, NoSQL, Cloud and Distributed
Databases, Walter de Gruyter GmbH.
3. A. SILBERSCHATZ, H.F. KORTH, S. SUDARSHAN (2011), Database System Concepts, McGraw Hill
Publications, 6th Edition.
1. H.G. MOLINA, J. ULLMAN, J. WIDOM (2014), Database Systems: The Complete Book, Pearson,
2. P. RAJ, A. RAMAN, D. NAGARAJ, S. DUGGIRALA (2015), High-Performance Big-Data Analytics:
Computing Systems and Approaches, Springer, 1st Edition.
300 - Level Compulsory Course
1. NPTEL course on ‘Indexing and Searching Techniques in Databases’ by Dr Arnab Bhattacharya,
IIT Kanpur: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/104/106104021/
2. NPTEL course on ‘NOC: Fundamentals of Database Systems’ by Dr Arnab Bhattacharya, IIT
300 - Level Compulsory Course
Maths for Big Data
B.Tech (AI & DS)
Mathematics - II, Probability, Statistics and
Structure (L-T-P [C])
To introduce basic concepts and core techniques which enable the students to handle large data and
equip students with suﬃcient knowledge of core techniques which can be used by the students in their
respective ﬁelds of interest.
Students will have the ability to:
1. Understand novel techniques to handle a large amount of data.
2. Develop concepts and tools to ingest, process and analyse massive data in real time.
Statistical Methods: Multivariate Analysis, Sampling theory: simple random sampling, stratiﬁed
sampling, cluster sampling, ratio and regression estimators, two stage sampling, Compressive sensing.
Numerical linear algebra: Spectral decomposition, Schur Decomposition, QR Factorization, Singular
value decomposition (SVD), PCA for large matrices, Algorithms for big matrices, Least square
approximations, Low-Rank Approximation, Manifolds. (14 Lectures)
1. D. MINER, A. SHOOK (2016), Mapreduce Design Patterns: Building Effective Algorithms
and Analytics for Hadoop and Other Systems, O'Reilly Media.
2. V. MAYER-SCHÖNBERGER, K. CUKIER (2013), Big Data: A Revolution that Will Transform How We
Live, Work, and Think, Houghton Miﬄin Harcourt.
3. N. MARZ, J. WARREN (2015), Big Data: Principles and Best Practices of Scalable Real-time
Data Systems, Manning.
1. M. MITTAL, V.E. BALAS, D.J. HEMANTH, R. KUMAR (2018), Data Intensive Computing Applications
for Big Data, IOS Press.
2. B. FURHT, A. ESCALANTE, (Eds.), Handbook of Data Intensive Computing, Springer, 2011,
3. G. STRANG (2005), Linear Algebra and its Applications, Cengage Learning, 4th Edition.
300 - Level Compulsory Course
Computer Science and Engineering
Data Structures and Algorithms
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2 [4]
1. To learn about design principles of operating systems
2. To learn various functionalities and services of an operating system in general
3. To do a case study of Operating System
1. Ability to understand the system performance that is driven by the Operating System services
2. Ability to modify and compile OS
3. Ability to diagnose and solve various problems in Operating Systems
Overview of Operating Systems: Types of Operating Systems, System calls and OS structure. (4
Processes Management: Process, Threads, CPU scheduling. (6 Lectures)
Process Coordination: Mutual exclusion, Mutex implementation, Semaphores, Monitors and condition
variables, Deadlocks. (10 Lectures)
Memory Management: Swapping, Paging, Segmentation, Virtual memory, Demand paging, Page
Replacement algorithms. (8 Lectures)
Storage Management: I/O devices and drivers, Disks and ﬁle Systems, File layout and directories, File
system performance, File system reliability. (8 Lectures)
Protection and Security: System protection, System security. (6 Lectures)
Designing a shell in Linux
Multithreaded programming using
pthread Solving the Sleeping-Barber
problem Modiﬁcation of scheduling
algorithm in Linux
Solving the Producer-Consumer problem over a
network Finding text, data, and stack segments of a
process in Linux Implementation of page
Changing ﬁle attributes in Linux
Implementing an encrypted ﬁle system in Linux
Implementing symbolic links in Linux
A. SILBERSCHATZ, P.B. GALVIN, G. GAGNE (2018), Operating System Concepts, John Wiley & Sons Inc.,
A.S. TANENBAUM, A.S. WOODHULL (2006), Operating Systems Design and Implementation, Pearson,
W. STALLINGS (2017), Operating Systems Internals and Design Principles, Pearson, 9th Edition.
400 - Level Courses
● Compulsory Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Data Visualization (400)
Data Engineering /
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Data visualization (700) - CSL7xx
The instructor will
1. Explain techniques and algorithms for creating effective visualizations based on principles from
2. Introduce several industry-standard software tools to create a compelling and interactive visualization
of various types of data.
1. An understanding of the key techniques and theory used in visualization, including data models,
graphical perception, and techniques for visual encoding and interaction.
2. Exposure to a number of common data domains and corresponding analysis tasks, including
multivariate data, networks, text, and cartography.
3. Practical experience building and evaluating visualization systems.
Introduction: Data for Graphics, Design principles, Value for visualization, Categorical, time series, and
statistical data graphics, Introduction to Visualization Tools (3 Lectures)
Graphics Pipeline: Introduction, Primitives: vertices, edges, triangles, Model transforms: translations,
rotations, scaling, View transform, Perspective transform, window transform (3 Lectures).
Aesthetics and Perception: Graphical Perception Theory, Experimentation, and the Application, Graphical
Integrity, Layering and Separation, Color and Information, Using Space Effectively (5 Lectures)
Visualization Design: Visual Display of Quantitative Information, Data-Ink Maximization, Graphical
Design, Exploratory Data Analysis, Heat Map (8 Lectures)
Multidimensional Data: Query, Analysis and Visualization of Multi-dimensional Relational Databases,
Interactive Exploration, tSNE (5 Lectures)
Interaction: Interactive Dynamics for Visual Analysis, Visual Queries, Finding Patterns in Time Series
Trend visualization, Animation, Dashboard, Visual Storytelling (8 Lectures)
Collaboration: Graph Visualization and Navigation, Online Social Networks, Social Data Analysis,
Collaborative Visual Analytics, Text, Map, Geospatial data (10 Lectures)
Visualization Design, Exploratory data analysis, Interactive Visualization Tools like Tableau, Gephi, D3,
etc. Mini Project.
1. E. TUFTE (2001), The Visual Display of Quantitative Information, Graphics Press, 2nd Edition.
2. J. KOPONEN, J. HILDÉN (2019), Data Visualization Handbook, CRC Press.
1. M. LIMA (2014), The Book of Trees: Visualizing Branches of Knowledge, Princeton Architectural Press.
2. R. TAMASSIA (2013), Handbook of Graph Drawing and Visualization, CRC Press.
3. S. MURRAY (2017), Interactive Data Visualization for the Web, O'Reilly Press, 2nd Edition.
400 - Level Compulsory Course
Deep Learning (400)
Computer Science and Engineering, AI&DS Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-3 [4.5]
Introduction to Machine Learning/Pattern
Recognition and Machine Learning
Deep Learning (700) -
The objective of this course is
1.To introduce students through some of the latest techniques in deep learning.
2.Hands on and the students should be able to design intelligent deep learning systems for solving the
problems in the area of their interests.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.Understand various deep learning models such CNN, Autoencoders, RNN etc.
2.Analyze various applications solved through the use of deep learning models
3.Design and implement their own deep learning models for the problem of their choice
Neural networks: DL Optimizers (SGD, MBGD, AdaGrad, Adam) and Regularization, Initialization
Methods (7 Lectures)
DL Models: Autoencoder, Convolutional Neural Networks, Recurrent Neural Networks, LSTM, Network
Architecture Search (NAS) (14 Lectures)
Deep Generative Models: Deep Belief Networks, Variational Autoencoders, Generative Adversarial
Networks, Deep Convolutional GAN (12 Lectures)
Representation learning: Unsupervised Pre-training, Transfer learning and Domain adaptation,
Distributed representation, Discovering underlying causes (9 Lectures)
Autoencoder, CNN, LSTM, DBM, GANs (variants), Transfer Learning, NLM, Graph NN, Adversarial losses
I. GOODFELLOW, Y. BENGIO, A. COURVILLE (2016), Deep Learning, The MIT Press, 1st Edition.
1. A. ZHANG, Z. LIPTON, M. LI, A. SMOLA (2020) Dive into Deep Learning (Release
2. D. FOSTER (2019), Generative Deep Learning, O'Reilly Media, 1st Edition.
1. Practical Machine Learning with Tensorﬂow, NPTEL Course Material, Department Computer
Science and Engineering, IIT Madras: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106213/
2. Stanford CS class (CS231n), Convolutional Neural Networks for Visual
400 - Level Compulsory Course
Dependable AI (400)
Learning/ Pattern Recognition and
Machine Learning, AI
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Preferred Knowledge /
Preferred: Deep Learning
Dependable AI (700)
The Instructor will:
Provide characteristic details of AI and machine learning systems to make them dependable, such as
explainability, interpretability, safety etc.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Assess the dependability of AI systems.
2. Develop explainable, robust, and safe AI models.
Introduction: Overview, Motivation, Challenges – medical and surveillance (3 Lectures)
Explainable AI: Accuracy-explainabilityTradeoff, Interpretability Problem, Predictability, Transparency,
Traceability, Causality, Reasoning, Attention and Saliency (10 Lectures)
Interpretable AI: Prediction Consistency, Application Level Evaluation, Human Level Evaluation, Function
Level Evaluation (5 Lectures)
Adversarial Robustness: Adversarial Attacks and Defenses (8 Lectures)
Trustworthy AI: Integrity, Reproducibility, Accountability (2 Lectures)
Bias-free AI: Accessibility, Fair, Data Agnostics Design, Disentanglement (4 Lectures)
Privacy Preserving AI: Federated Learning, Differential Privacy and Encrypted Computation (6 Lectures)
Veriﬁed AI: Environment and Speciﬁcation Modeling, Design with Formal Inductive Synthesis, Evaluation
Platforms for AI Safety (4 Lectures)
1. J. PEARL (2018), The Book of Why: The New Science of Cause and Effect, Basic Books.
2. N. BOSTROM (2014), The Ethics of Artiﬁcial Intelligence. The Cambridge Handbook of Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, Cambridge University Press.
Udacity course on Secure and Private AI: https://www.udacity.com/course/secure-and-private-ai--
400 - Level Compulsory Course
Optimization in ML
Structure (L-T-P [C])
PRML or Introduction to ML
1. To understand the theory of optimization methods and algorithms developed for solving various
types of optimization problems
2. To apply the mathematical results and numerical techniques of optimization theory to Machine
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Compose existing theoretical analysis with new aspects and algorithm variants.
2. Formulate the most important optimization algorithms for machine learning applications
Introduction to optimization: Machine Learning and Optimization, linear and non-linear optimization,
discrete optimization, Network ﬂows, convex sets, functions. (14 Lectures)
Regularizations and SGD: L1 and L2 regularization, First-order methods: gradient descent, acceleration
and subgradient method, Stochastic gradient methods, SGD heuristics and tricks, escaping saddle
points. (14 Lectures)
Other topics relevant to optimization for ML: Interior point and cutting-plane methods for ML, Min-Max
Problems (convex-concave and nonconvex),Non-Euclidean and Submodular optimization. (14 Lectures)
1. S. BOYD, L. VANDENBERGHE (2003), Convex Optimization, Cambridge University Press.
2. S. SRA, S. NOWOZIN, S. WRIGHT, (Eds.), Optimization for Machine Learning, MIT Press, 2011.
3. E. HAZAN (2019), Lecture Notes: Optimization for Machine
4. D. BERTSEKAS (2016), Nonlinear Programming, Athena Scientiﬁc, 3rd Edition.
Self Learning Material
400 - Level Compulsory Course
Theory of Computation
Computer Science and Engineering
Maths for Computing
Structure (L-T-P [C])
To learn about computability techniques
To learn about advanced computational complexity models
1. To be able to distinguish between computable and uncomputable problems
2. Gaining in-depth understanding of advanced complexity models
Computability: Review of Turing Machine, NP and NP-completeness, Diagonalization, view of PDAs,
2DFAs, FAs as restricted TMs, and related theorems. Tape reduction, and robustness of the model.
Encoding and Enumeration of Turing Machines, Undecidability. Rice-Myhill-Shapiro theorem.
Decision Trees and Communication Complexity:
Certiﬁcate Complexity, Randomized Decision Trees, Lower bounds on Randomized Complexity, Some
techniques for decision tree lower bounds, Comparison trees, and sorting lower bounds, Yao’s
MinMax Lemma, Deﬁnition of communication complexity, Lower bound methods, Overview of other
communication models, Applications of communication complexity.
Time Complexity: Time as a resource, Linear Speedup theorem, Crossing sequences and their
applications, Hierarchy theorems. P vs NP. Time Complexity classes and their relationships. Notion
of completeness, reductions. Cook-Levin Theorem. Ladner’s theorem. Relativization Barrier:
Space Complexity: Space as a resource. PSPACE, L and NL. Reachability Problem, Completeness
results. Savitch’s theorem,
Inductive Counting to show the Immerman-Szelepcsenyi theorem.
Reachability problems, Expander Graphs, SL=L
#P-completeness. The complexity classes PP, ParityP, BPP, RP, BPP are in P/poly, Toda’s
of Counting & Randomization: Counting
D. Kozen (2013), Automata and Computability, Springer
D. Kozen (2006), Theory of Computation, Springer
S. Arora and B. Barak (2009), Complexity Theory: A Modern Approach, Cambridge University Press.
Sipser, M., (2013), Introduction to the Theory of Computation, Cengage Learning
Hopcroft,J. E., Motwani, R., and Ullman, J. D., (2007), Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and
400 - Level Courses
● Elective Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Advanced Data Structures
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech CSE, AI&DS
Data Structures and Algorithms
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Data structures are one of the important elements of modern computer science. The objective of the
course is to learn major results and current research directions in data structure beyond the traditional
linear and non-linear data structures.
Students will have the ability to:
1. Use unconventional and modern data structures for the changing need of new age algorithmic
2. Solve problems using data structures.
Temporal Data Structures: Persistent and retroactive data structures, Pointer machine. (5 Lectures)
Geometric Data Structures: Point location, Range searching, Fractional cascading, Data structures for
moving data. (5 Lectures)
Dynamic optimality: Analytic bounds, Splay trees, Geometric view, independent rectangle,
key-independent optimality. (5 Lectures)
External Memory Data Structures: Cache-oblivious (CO) Data structures such as B-Tree, CO priority
Queue etc. (5 Lectures)
Integer Data Structures: Predecessor/Successor problems, van Emde Boas, x-fast and y-fast trees,
Fusion trees: Sketching, Parallel comparison, Most signiﬁcant set bit. (6 Lectures)
Static Trees and String Data Structures: Least common ancestor, Range minimum queries, Level
ancestor, Suﬃx tree, Suﬃx array, Linear-time construction for large alphabets, Suﬃx tray, Document
Memory Eﬃcient Data Structures: Rank, Select, Tries, Compact suﬃx arrays and trees. (5 Lectures)
Dynamic Graphs: Link-cut trees, Heavy-light decomposition, Euler tour trees, Decremental connectivity in
trees, Fully dynamic connectivity. (6 Lectures)
R.E. TARJAN (1983), Data Structures and Network Algorithms, SIAM. (covers BSTs, splay trees, link-cut
P. MORIN (2013), Open Data Structures, Athabasca University Press, 31st Edition. (covers BSTs, B-trees,
hashing, and some integer data structures)
Self Learning Material
MIT Lectures in Advanced Data Structures (6.851): https://courses.csail.mit.edu/6.851/fall17/lectures/
400 - Level Elective Course
Computational Cognition & Behavior Modeling Number
Computer Science and Engineering
Probability & Statistics, PRML
The Instructor will:
1. Draw on formal models from classic and contemporary artiﬁcial
fundamental issues in human cognition and behavior.
intelligence to explore
2. Encourage students to explore answers to questions on cognition and behavior (e.g., What are the
different forms that our knowledge of the world takes? How does this lead to behaviour?) and ways
to model them
3. Help students develop an understanding of how computational modeling can advance cognitive
science, how cognitive science can contribute to research in machine learning and AI, and how to
ﬁt and evaluate cognitive models to understand behavioral data.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Demonstrate knowledge of basic concepts and methodologies of cognitive and behavioral
modelling - be able to design simple models for sample problems.
2. Demonstrate understanding of the relationship between computational models and
psychological theories - critically assess the psychological adequacy of a given model.
3. Qualitatively and quantitatively evaluate computational models of cognition and behavior.
4. Extend the understanding of these models to the design of architectures for social cognitive
agents for applications such as autonomous driving, and assistive robotics.
Fractal 1 [Computational Modelling Techniques for Cognition and Behavior]
Introduction [1 Lecture]: The motivation underlying the computational modelling of cognition, and the
possible questions that can be answered
Probabilistic approaches to modelling cognition & behavior [4 lectures]: Bayesian inference, hierarchical
Bayesian models, probabilistic graphical models
Inductive Logic Programming & Language of thought models. [3
learning for modelling
Lectures] Deep learning,
Information sampling & Active learning. [3
Fractal 2 [Cognition Modelling]
The mind as an information-processing system - Marr's levels of analysis (computational, algorithmic,
implementation) [1 Lecture]
Structure and formation of intuitive theories of cognition of physical, biological and social systems;
Learning causal relations. [3 Lectures]
Symbolic (rule-based), subsymbolic (probabilistic) & connectionist
cognition [3 Lectures]
Methodology and issues in the development and evaluation of cognitive models [7 Lectures]: Which
psychological data are relevant? How do we collect such data (e.g., EEG, Eye-tracker; across ages &
genders)? What predictions can be made by the models of cognition? How can these predictions be
tested? - Some possible example models: language processing, memory, reasoning, categorization.
(network-based) models of
Fractal 3 [Behavioral Modelling]
Introduction [4 Lectures]: Brain & behavior; Understanding social behavior; General motivation
underlying computational modelling of behavior
Symbolic (rule-based), subsymbolic (probabilistic) & connectionist (network-based) approaches to
behavior modelling [3 Lectures]
Methodology and issues in the development and evaluation of behavioral models [7 Lectures]: Which
behavioral data are relevant? How do we collect such data (e.g., EEG, Eye-tracker; across ages, genders
& societies)? What predictions can be made? How do these predictions apply to assistive system
400 - Level Elective Course
1. Russell & Norving (2020). Artiﬁcial Intelligence: A Modern  Approach. 4th Edition. Prentice Hall.
2. Farrell & Lewandowsky (2018). Computational Modeling of Cognition and Behaviour. Cambridge
Issa and Isaias (2015). Sustainable Design: HCI, Usability and Environmental Concerns.
2. McClelland & Rogers (2003). The Parallel Distributed Processing Approach to Semantic Cognition.
Nature Reviews Neuroscience. 4(4), 310-322.
3. Peterson, Abbott & Griﬃths (2016). Adapting Deep Network Features to Capture Psychological
Representations. 38th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society.
4. Tenenbaum, Kemp, Griﬃths & Goodman (2015). Rational Use of Cognitive Resources: Levels of
Analysis between the Computational and the Algorithmic. Topics in Cognitive Sciences. 7(2),
5. Wilson & Collins (2019). Ten Simple Rules for the Computational Modelling of Behavioral Data.
6. Goodman, Tenenbaum & Gerstenberg (2014). Concepts in a Probabilistic Language of Thought.
Center for Brains, Minds and Machines (CBMM).
400 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
To introduce issues, challenges and approaches related to distributed systems
Students are expected to have the ability in:
1. Designing, deploying and managing distributed systems
2. Understanding and analyzing various distributed algorithms and approaches
Introduction: Introduction to advanced operating systems and distributed systems. (2 Lectures)
Concurrency, Ordering, Races: Implementing Remote Procedure Calls, Time, Clocks, and the Ordering of
in a distributed system, Distributed snapshots: Determining global states of distributed systems,
Detecting concurrency bugs: Eraser & TSVD. (8 Lectures)
File Systems and Disks: A Fast ﬁle System for UNIX, Scale and performance in a distributed ﬁle system,
Design and implementation of a log-structured ﬁle system, A case for redundant arrays of inexpensive
disks (RAID). (6 Lectures)
Fault Tolerance: Implementing fault-tolerant services using the state machine approach, Paxos,
Byzantine fault tolerance. (6 Lectures)
OS Kernels and Virtual Machines: Microkernels, System code veriﬁcation, Kernels for multicore &
disaggregation, Virtual machines. (6 Lectures)
T. ANDERSON, M.DAHLIN (2014), Operating Systems: Principles and Practice, Recursive Books,
N. LYNCH (2009), Distributed Algorithms, Elsevier India.
W.R. STEVENS, S.A.RAGO (2013), Advanced Programming in the Unix Environment, Addison-Wesley, 3rd
W.R. STEVENS, B. FENNER, A.M. RUDOFF (2004), Unix Network Programming: Networking APIs:
Sockets and XTI (Volume 1), Addison-Wesley, 3rd Edition.
400 - Level Elective Course
ICT for Development
Computer Science and Engineering
The Instructor will:
1. Facilitate an interactive platform for students to discuss and learn ICT strategies for
2. Reﬂect upon his/her own experiences in deploying ICT solutions in social settings and the
Students will have the ability to:
1. Appreciate the potential that ICT possesses to make an impact on the society.
2. Learn through various case studies, that different problem settings require different
From the origins of ICTD to Big data and development [3 lectures]
Development theory and the critiques of ICTD [4 lectures]
Localization techniques and Identity management [3 lectures]
ICTD: knowledge economies and development [3 lectures]
e-learning and development [2 lectures]
e-governance and development [2 lectures]
ICTs and Environment sustainability [2 lectures]
Building sustainable rural information service networks [2
lectures] Sustainability failures of rural telecentres [1 lecture]
ICT for Agriculture [2 lecture]
ICTD: Information sharing practices [1 lecture]
ICTD for community networks and disaster management [2 lectures]
ICT4D: the future [1 lecture]
1. Heeks, R. (2017). Information and communication technology for development (ICT4D). Routledge.
400 - Level Elective Course
Introduction to Computer Graphics (400) Course No.
Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
B.Tech, MTech, PhD
Data Structures and Algorithms
(700) - CSL7xx
To provide a thorough introduction to computer graphics techniques, focusing on 2D and 3D
modeling, image synthesis and rendering
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Create and explain graphics primitives and interactive graphics applications in C++
2. Synthesize and render 2D and 3D worlds for visualization and animation
Introduction to Computer Graphics & Graphics Systems: Overview of computer graphics, representing
pictures, preparing, presenting & interacting with pictures for presentations, OpenGL Primitives (3
Scan Conversions: Points & lines, Line drawing algorithms, Circle generation algorithm; Ellipse
generating algorithm; scan line polygon, ﬁll algorithm, Clipping algorithms: line and polygon, anti-
aliasing (6 Lectures)
Transformations and Viewing: Basic transformations: translation, rotation, scaling; Matrix
representations and homogeneous coordinates,
transformations between coordinate systems;
reﬂection shear; Viewing pipeline, Window to viewport coordinate transformation, clipping operations,
viewport clipping, 3D viewing (9 Lectures)
Curves and Surfaces: Conics, parametric and non-parametric forms; Curves and Splines; Surfaces and
NURBS, 3-D modelling (8 Lectures)
Hidden Surfaces: Depth comparison, Z-buffer algorithm, Back face detection, BSP tree method, the
Printer’s algorithm, scan-line algorithm; Hidden line elimination, wire frame methods (6 Lectures)
Color and Shading Models:Phong's shading model, Gouraud shading, Shadows and background, Color
models, Photo-realistic rendering, Radiosity (5 Lectures)
Animation: Functions, pipeline, sample programs for drawing 2-D, 3-D objects; event handling and view
manipulation (5 Lectures)
1. D. HEARN, P. BAKER (2002), Computer Graphics, Pearson Education India, 2002, 2nd Edition.
1. J. F. HUGHES, A. VAN DAM, M. McGUIRE, D.F. SKLAR, J. D. FOLEY, S. K. FEINER, K. AKELEY
(2014), Computer Graphics: Principles and Practices, Addison Wesley, 3rd Edition.
2. D. F. ROGERS, J. A. ADAMS (1989), Mathematical Elements for Computer Graphics, McGraw
Hill, 2nd Edition.
3. Z. XIANG, R. PLASTOCK (2015), Schaum’s Outline of Computer Graphics, McGraw Hill
Education, 2nd Edition.
4. J. KESSENICH, G. SELLERS, D. SHREINER (2017), OpenGL Programming Guide, Pearson
Education, 9th Edition.
Self Learning Material
NPTEL Computer Science and Engineering - Computer Graphics:
400 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Social Network Analysis
Provide introduction to social network analysis, its mathematical foundation and application.
The students are expected to:
1. Gain the ability to understand the applications related to social networks
2. Write programs with social network datasets and Formulate real-world problems with any
relational data set resembling social networks
Introduction: Graphs, Social Networks, Network Types, Network Data Sets,  Gephi for  Network
Analysis (5 Lectures)
Network Properties: Network Measures, Strong and Weak Ties, Homophily, Structural Balance,
Components (4 Lectures)
Network Models: Random Networks, Scale Free Networks, The Barabási-Albert Model, Erdos-Renyi
Model (5 Lectures)
Structural Analysis of Networks using Python: Python for Network Analysis, Empirical Studies,
Properties, Generate Synthetic Networks, Working with signed networks (5 Lectures)
Social Network Applications: Information Cascades, Small-World Phenomenon, Epidemics, Community
Detection, Link Prediction, Page Rank (14 Lectures)
Evolving Network and Temporal Networks: Network evolution, working with Temporal Network Data (5
Multiplex and Multi-layer network (1 Lecture)
Network Analysis in Other Fields:Network Analysis in Biology, Sports, Transports (3 Lectures)
1. D. EASLEY, J. KLEINBERG (2010), Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a
Highly Connected World, Cambridge University Press.
2. A. BARABASI (2016), Network Science, Cambridge University
3. M. NEWMAN (2018), Networks, Oxford University Press, 2nd Edition.
1. C. GROS (2015), Complex and Adaptive Dynamical Systems, Springer, Springer, 4th Edition.
2. E. ESTRADA (2011), The Structure of Complex Networks Theory and Applications, Oxford
3. W. de NOOY, A. MRVAR, V. BATAGELJ (2018), Exploratory Social Network Analysis with
Pajek, Cambridge University Press, 3rd Edition.
Self Learning Material
400 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science & Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
1. To explain theories, models, tools, and processes for the maintenance and evolution of large
software systems and cloud applications
2. To familiarize with practices, techniques and processes that can help team build high quality
1. Understand the diﬃculties of developing code in a change context as opposed to new development
2. Identify the principal issues associated with software evolution and explain their impact on the
3. Describe techniques, coding idioms and other mechanisms for implementing designs that are more
Introduction: Basic concepts, difference between new development and maintenance, categorizing
software change and limitations, maintenance frameworks (4 lectures)
Understanding Software & Evolution: Program comprehension models:
opportunistic; Variants of software maintenance,
relations to software engineering life-cycle,
techniques of software evolution and testing, quantitative analyses, empirical analyses, qualitative
analyses of software, evolution dynamics (10 Lectures)
Software Maintenance: Maintenance processes: quick-ﬁx model, boehm's model, osborne’s model,
iterative enhancement model, process maturity, Search-based Software Testing, Summarization
Techniques for Code, Changes, and Testing, Change impact analysis (7 Lectures)
Software Reuse: Reverse engineering levels & techniques:
reengineering, software reuse and evolution, the laws of software evolution, reuse techniques and
design for reuse, libraries vs. application frameworks - Software product lines (7 Lectures)
Assignments/Projects on program comprehension and reverse engineering: program slicer, static
analyser, dynamic analyzer, dataﬂow analyser, cross-reference, dependency analyser, transformation
tools; Testing tools: simulators, test case generator, test path generators; source code, control system.
1. Grubb, P., & Takang, A. A. (2003). Software maintenance: concepts and practice. World Scientiﬁc.
2. Galin, D. (2018). Software quality: concepts and practice. John Wiley & Sons..
Pigoski, T. M. (1996). Practical software maintenance: best practices for managing your
software investment. Wiley Publishing.
Reverse Engineering Essentials: Udemy,
400 - Level Elective Course
Visual Computing Lab
The Instructor will introduce students to the importance of human centered visual computing.
The students are expected to have the ability to design applications that explicitly consider human
Sensing Devices: Concept of dynamic range, HDR displays, Event Based Camera, Time of Flight Camera,
Coded Apertures, LIDAR, 3D Reconstruction, Kinect Scanner, Laser Scanner (4 weeks)
Mini-project in Recognition (2 weeks) Mini-project in Navigation (2 weeks) Mini-project in Action (2
Mini-project in Mixed Reality (2 weeks) Mini-project in Trustable Decision (2 weeks)
Szeliski, R. (2010). Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications. Springer-Verlag New York Inc.
Reinhard, E., Heidrich, W., Debevec, P., Pattanaik, S., Ward, G., &Myszkowski, K. (2010). High Dynamic
Range Imaging: Acquisition, Display, and Image-based Lighting. 2nd Edition. Morgan Kaufmann.
Self Learning Material
Prof.Ioannis (Yannis) Gkioulekas, Computational Photography, Carnegie
Prof. Silvio Savarese, Computer Vision, From 3D Reconstruction to Recognition, Stanford
Preparatory Course Material:
Prof. Gilbert Strang, Linear Algebra and Learning from Data, Massachusetts Institute of
700 - Level Courses
● Preliminary Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Bridge course on DSA
B.Tech, M.Tech. and Ph. D.
1. To revise the topics covered in Undergrad Data structure, and Algorithm courses.
2. To implement introductory data structures and algorithms in C/C++/Python.
1. Learn basic data structure and algorithmic techniques
Implementation of various data structure and algorithms to solve real life problems
Data Structures [3 days]: Stack, Queue, Linked Lists, Heaps (min and max) , Binary Search Tree.
Introduction to Algorithms [3 days]: Asymptotic notations, Recurrence relations, Sorting: quick, radix,
selection and heap sort, Searching.
Graph Algorithms [3 days]: DFS in directed and undirected graphs, BFS and connected components,
Connectivity in directed graphs, Dijkstra’s algorithm, topological sorting
Greedy and Divide & Conquer Algorithms [3 days]: Prim’s, Kruskal’s, interval scheduling, Mergesort,
Misc. [3 days]: Binary Trees, AVL trees, Dynamic programming - matrix multiplication.
1. Jon Kleinberg, Eva Tardos (2005), Algorithm Design, Pearson Education, 1st Edition.
2. Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein, Introduction to
Self Learning Material
700 - Level Preliminary Course
Data Structures and Practices
Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech. 1st Year
The Instructor will:
1. Explain various data structures and provide details to implement and use them in different
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Write, debug and rectify the programs using different data structures
2. Expertise in transforming coding skills into algorithm design and implementation
Exercises based on
Abstract Data Types: Arrays, link-list/list, hash tables, dictionaries, structures, stack, queues (4 labs)
Data Structures: Heap, Sets, Sparse matrix, Binary Search Tree, B-Tree/ B+ Tree, Graph  (4 labs)
Algorithm implementation: Quick or Merge sort, Breadth or Depth ﬁrst search or Dijkstra’s Shortest
Path First algorithm, Dynamic programing (6 labs)
1. Weiss, M. A. (2007), Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++, Addison-Wesley.
2. Lipschutz, S. (2017), Data Structures with C, McGraw Hill Education.
3. Cormen, T. H., Leiserson, C. E., Rivest, R. L. and Stein, C., (2009), Introduction to Algorithms,
Online Course Material
1. Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT Delhi,
700 - Level Courses
● Core Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Advanced Data Structures & Algorithms
B.Tech, M.Tech. CSE and M.Tech. AI, Ph.D.
Algorithm Design and Analysis, Data Structures,
Maths for Computing
1. The objective of the course is to introduce several advanced algorithmic techniques and data
Implementation of various advanced data structure and algorithms to solve real life problems
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Learn advanced data structure techniques
2. Learn a new set of techniques to cope with NP-hard problems.
5. Understand the intractability of problems.
Identify novel and signiﬁcant open research questions in the ﬁeld.
Implementation of various advanced data structure and algorithms to solve real life problems
Data Structures and Algorithms Techniques (Fractals I and II)
Advanced Data Structures [10 lectures]: Red-black trees, Interval trees, Dynamic order statistics,
Binomial heap, Fibonacci Heap [5 lectures], Tries, Splay Trees, B-Trees, Hashing - disjoint set, union
ﬁnd [5 lectures].
Network Flows [5 lectures]: Maximum Flow problem, Ford-Fulkerson algorithm, Max ﬂow min cut
theorem, augmenting paths, applications to bipartite matching problem and disjoint paths in
directed and undirected graphs.
Amortized Analysis [3 lectures]: Aggregate Analysis, Accounting method, Potential method.
Dynamic Programming [6 lectures]: Knapsack, Independent Set of Trees, Interval Scheduling, Set
NP-completeness and Reductions [8 lectures]: Complexity classes P, NP, co-NP, NP-complete,
NP-Hard, Example reductions between problems.
Fractal III: Advanced Algorithmic Techniques
Advanced Algorithmic Techniques [10 lectures]: Approximation Algorithms: Greedy Algorithm –
Load Balancing, Set Cover [2 Lectures]; The Pricing Method: Vertex Cover, Knapsack [3 Lectures],
Randomized  Algorithms [5 Lectures].
1. Jon Kleinberg, Eva Tardos (2005), Algorithm Design, Pearson Education, 1st Edition.
2. Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein, Introduction to
Self Learning Material
700 - Level Core Course
Algorithms for Big Data
Computer Science and Engineering
B. Tech., M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
Introduce some algorithmic techniques developed for handling large amounts of data.
2. Emphasize both theoretical as well as practical aspects of such algorithms.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Design and Analyzing existing algorithms as well as design novel algorithms pertaining to big
Introduction: Randomized algorithms, Universal hash family, Probabilistic algorithm analysis,
Approximation algorithms, -Approximation schemes, Sublinear time complexity, Sublinear Algorithms.
Property Testing: Testing list’s sortedness or monotonicity, Distribution testing (5 lectures)
Testing properties of bounded degree graphs, Dense graphs and General graphs. (6 lectures)
Sketching and Streaming: Extremely Small-Space Data Structures, CountMin Sketch, Count Sketch (5
Linear Sketching, AMS Sketch, Turnstile Streaming, Graph Sketching, Graph Connectivity (5 lectures)
MapReduce: MapReduce Algorithms in Constrains Settings such as small memory, few machines, few
rounds, and small total work, Eﬃcient Parallel Algorithms (7 lectures)
External memory and cache-obliviousness: Minimizing I/O for large datasets, Algorithms and data
structures such as B-trees, Buffer trees, Multiway merge sort (7 lectures)
Self Learning Material
1. Department of Computer Science, Harvard University, Algorithms for Big Data
“Introduction to Property Testing” (link) by Oded Goldreich
700 - Level Core Course
Artiﬁcial Intelligence (700)
Computer Science and Engineering
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Data Structures and Algorithms
Intelligence (300) -
The Instructor will:
1.  Cover various paradigms that come under the broad umbrella of AI.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Develop an understanding of where and how AI can be used.
Introduction: Uninformed search strategies, Greedy best-ﬁrst search, And-Or search, Uniform cost
search, A* search, Memory-bounded heuristic search, Local and evolutionary searches (9 Lectures)
Constraint Satisfaction Problems: Backtracking search for CSPs, Local search for CSPs (3 Lectures)
Adversarial Search: Optimal Decision in Games, The minimax algorithm, Alpha-Beta pruning,
Expectimax search (4 Lectures)
Knowledge and Reasoning: Propositional Logic, Reasoning Patterns in propositional logic; First order
logic: syntax, semantics,
Inference in First order logic, uniﬁcation and lifting, backward chaining,
resolution (9 Lectures)
Planning: Situation Calculus, Deductive planning, STRIPES, sub-goal, Partial order planner (3 Lectures)
Bayesian Network, Causality, and Uncertain Reasoning: Probabilistic models, directed and undirected
models, inferencing, causality, Introduction to Probabilistic reasoning (6 lectures)
Reinforcement Learning: MDP, Policy, Q-value, Passive RL, Active RL, Policy Search (8 Lectures)
1. Russel,S., and Norvig,P., (2015), Artiﬁcial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, 3rd Edition, Prentice
1.  Research literature
Self Learning Material
1.   Department of Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley,
2.   NPTEL: Artiﬁcial Intelligence, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105077/
700 - Level Core Course
Computer Architecture (700)
Computer Science and Engineering
Antirequisite Computer Architecture
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide background to understand various components of a modern computer system,
its interconnections, and performance issue
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Explain the working principles of various components of modern computer systems
2.   Compare between systems using benchmark data
3.   Write, execute and debug parallel programs on GPU
CSL7XX0 Multi System Architecture 1-0-0 [1]
Introduction: Deﬁning Computer Architecture, Flynn’s Classiﬁcation of Computers, Metrics for
Performance Measurement. (4 lectures)
Memory Hierarchy: Introduction, Advanced Optimizations of Cache Performance, Memory Technology
and Optimizations, Virtual Memory and Virtual Machines, The Design of Memory Hierarchies,
Introduction to Pin Instrumentation and Cache grind, Case Study: Intel Core i7  (10 lectures)
CSL7XX0 Multicore Processing 1-0-0 [1]
Instruction-Level Parallelism: Instruction-level Parallelism: Concepts and Challenges, Basic Compiler
Techniques for Exposing ILP, Reducing Branch Costs with Advanced Branch Prediction, Dynamic
Scheduling, Superscalar, Limitations of ILP, Case Study: Dynamic Scheduling in Intel Core i7. (9
Multicore Processor: Introduction, CPU Interconnections, Network on Chip (NoC), Routing Protocols,
Quality of Service on NoC. (5 lectures)
CSL7XX0 Fundamentals of Parallel Programming  1-0-0 [1]
Data Level Parallelism:
Introduction, Vector Architecture, SIMD Instruction Set Extensions for
Multimedia, Graphics Processing Units, GPU Memory Hierarchy, Detecting and Enhancing Loop- Level
Parallelism, CUDA Programming, Case Study: Nvidia Maxwell. (14 lectures)
1. Hennessy,J.L. and Patterson,D.A., (2012), Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach, 5th Edition,
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers
2. Shen,J.P. and Lipasti,M.H.,
Processors, McGraw-Hill Publishers
(2005), Modern Processor Design: Fundamentals of Superscalar
1. CUDA: https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-zone
2. OpenMP: https://www.openmp.org/
Preparatory Course Material
1. Department of Computer Science and Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
700 - Level Core Course
Deep Learning (700)
Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech. 1st Year, Ph.D. 1st Year
Deep Learning (400)
1. Provide technical details about various recent algorithms and software platforms related to
Machine Learning with speciﬁc focus on Deep Learning.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Design and program eﬃcient algorithms related to recent machine learning techniques, train
models, conduct experiments, and develop real-world DL-based applications and products
Fractal 1: Foundations of Deep Learning
Deep Networks:   CNN, RNN, LSTM, Attention layers, Applications (8 lectures)
Techniques to improve deep networks: DNN Optimization, Regularization, AutoML (6 lectures)
Fractal 2: Representation Learning
Representation Learning: Unsupervised pre-training,
distributed representation, discovering underlying causes (8 lectures)
Auto-DL:   Neural architecture search,  network compression, graph neural networks (6 lectures)
learning, and domain adaptation,
Fractal 3: Generative Models
Probabilistic Generative Models: DBN, RBM (3 lectures)
Deep Generative Models: Encoder-Decoder, Variational Autoencoder, Generative Adversarial Network
(GAN), Deep Convolutional GAN, Variants and Applications of GANs (11 lectures)
1. Goodfellow,I., Bengio.,Y., and Courville,A., (2016), Deep Learning, The MIT Press .
1. Charniak, E. (2019), Introduction to deep learning, The MIT Press.
2. Research literature.
Self Learning Material
700 - Level Core Course
Dependable AI (700)
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
Machine Learning, Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Dependable AI (400) -
The Instructor will:
1. Provide characteristic details of AI and machine learning systems to make them dependable,
such as explainability, interpretability, safety etc.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Assess the dependability of AI systems.
2. Develop explainable, robust, and safe AI models.
Introduction: Overview, Motivation, Challenges – medical and surveillance (3 Lectures)
Explainable AI: Accuracy-explainabilityTradeoff, Interpretability Problem, Predictability, Transparency,
Traceability, Causality, Reasoning, Attention and Saliency (10 Lectures)
Interpretable AI: Prediction Consistency, Application Level Evaluation, Human Level Evaluation,
Function Level Evaluation (5 Lectures)
Adversarial Robustness: Adversarial Attacks and Defences (8 Lectures)
Trustworthy AI: Integrity, Reproducibility, Accountability (2 Lectures)
Bias-free AI: Accessibility, Fair, Data Agnostics Design, Disentanglement (4 Lectures)
Privacy Preserving AI:Federated Learning, Differential Privacy and Encrypted Computation (6 Lectures)
Veriﬁed AI:Environment and Speciﬁcation Modeling, Design with Formal
Evaluation Platforms for AI Safety (4 Lectures)
1. Pearl, J., (2018), The Book of Why: The New Science of Cause and Effect, Basic Books.
1. Bostrom, N., (2014), The Ethics of Artiﬁcial Intelligence. The Cambridge handbook of artiﬁcial
intelligence, Cambridge University Press.
Preparatory Course Material
1. Proceedings of IJCAI: Workshop on Explainable Artiﬁcial Intelligence (XAI).
700 - Level Core Course
B.Tech. (CSE and AI), M.Tech. (CSE and AI), Ph.D.
Machine Learning or PRML or IML
● To cover various techniques of Deep Learning system design.
● To cover topics around building a DL system that is deployable, reliable, and scalable
Students will gain the ability to:
1. Develop an understanding to analyze tradeoffs for designing production systems with
DL-components, analyzing various qualities beyond accuracy such as operation cost, latency,
2. Understanding of latest trends in systems designs to better support the next generation of DL
applications, and applications of DL to optimize the architecture and the performance of
3. Develop an understanding to design production-quality, fault tolerance, scalable DL system
● Deep Learning Frameworks, Hardware Requirements, Containers, Versioning, Provenance,
and Reproducibility, DL Compilers (4 labs)
● Large Data Requirement (Storage, Lineage), Distributed and Scalable Deep Learning, Dynamic
Networks, Parallel Optimization, Mixed Precision Training (4 labs)
● Deployment, Monitoring, Updating, and Maintenance (2 labs)
● Hyperparameter Tuning, Faster Serving, DL Systems in Production and Client Level Inference
(e.g NVIDIA Triton) (2 labs)
● Advanced Topics (2 labs)
● None - online materials and sysML level papers
Self Learning Material
700 - Level Core Course
Machine Learning (700)
Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech. (CSE, AI, DCS), PhD
Introduction to Computer Sc., Probability, Statistics
and Stochastic Processes, Linear Algebra
1. To understand various key paradigms for machine learning approaches
2. To familiarize with the mathematical and statistical techniques used in machine learning.
3. To understand and differentiate among various machine learning techniques.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. To formulate a machine learning problem
2. Select an appropriate pattern analysis tool for analyzing data in a given feature space.
3. Apply pattern recognition and machine learning techniques such as classiﬁcation and feature
selection to practical applications and detect patterns in the data.
Fractal I: Supervised Learning
Introduction: Deﬁnitions, Datasets for Machine Learning, Different Paradigms of Machine Learning,
Data Normalization, Hypothesis Evaluation, VC-Dimensions and Distribution, Bias-Variance Tradeoff,
Regression (Linear) (7 Lectures)
Bayes Decision Theory: Bayes decision rule, Minimum error rate classiﬁcation, Normal density and
discriminant functions (5 Lectures)
Parameter Estimation: Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian Parameter Estimation (2 Lectures)
Fractal II: Unsupervised Learning
Discriminative Methods: Distance-based methods, Linear Discriminant Functions, Decision Tree,
Random Decision Forest and Boosting (6 Lectures)
Feature Selection and Dimensionality Reduction: PCA, LDA, ICA, SFFS, SBFS (4 Lectures)
Clustering: k-means clustering, Gaussian Mixture Modeling, EM-algorithm (4 Lectures)
Fractal III:  Kernels and Neural Networks
Kernel Machines: Kernel Tricks, SVMs (primal and dual forms), K-SVR, K-PCA (6 Lectures)
Artiﬁcial Neural Networks: MLP, Backprop, and RBF-Net (4 Lectures)
Foundations of Deep Learning: DNN, CNN, Autoencoders (4 lectures)
1. Shalev-Shwartz,S., Ben-David,S., (2014), Understanding Machine Learning: From Theory to
Algorithms, Cambridge University Press
2. R. O. Duda, P. E. Hart, D. G. Stork (2000), Pattern Classiﬁcation, Wiley-Blackwell, 2nd Edition.
1. Mitchell Tom (1997). Machine Learning, Tata McGraw-Hill
2. C. M. BISHOP (2006), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer-Verlag New York,
1. Department of Computer Science, Stanford University, https://see.stanford.edu/Course/CS229
700 - Level Core Course
B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Machine Learning or PRML or IML
● To cover topics of ML system design, including applications and products with machine
Students will gain the ability to:
1. Learning to design ML Systems to solve practical problems.
2. Learning how an ML system works in production and insights about challenges
4. Picking the right framework and compute infrastructure and trade-off space.
5. Troubleshooting training and ensuring the reproducibility of results.
Identifying systems faults and applying strategies to identify root causes in ML systems.
● Machine Learning Systems: Concepts and Stages (data collection to model development),
Challenges, and Solutions, DevOps to MLOps - Framework and Software Stack (2 labs)
● ML Data Structure and Data Processing (2 labs)
● Machine Learning Accelerators (ML Compilers), Virtual Environments, Git, Docker, Containers,
Kubernetes (2 lab)
● Experiment Tracking, Reproducibility, and Reusability (2 labs)
● Quantized and Low-precision Machine Learning (2 labs)
● Deployment: Platforms and Infrastructure (2 labs)
● Machine Learning System Versioning, Tracking, Testing and Debugging (2 labs)
● Online materials and sysML level papers
Self Learning Material
700 - Level Core Course
Software and Data Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Data Structures and Algorithms
The Instructor will:
1.  Discuss techniques to manage a large amount of data
2.  Provide mechanisms to design and develop data-intensive computing systems
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design complex end-to-end data pipeline for data processing
2.  Critically identify and use the tools for data handling and management
3.  Use modern software technologies to design and develop data analytical systems
CSL7XX0 Cloud Computing and Virtualization 1-0-0 [1]
Basics of complex software design: Concept of modular software, microservices, communication, 4+1
architectural views and patterns (5 lectures)
Cloud Computing: Architecture of cluster computing, design of data centers, open data center
platforms, fault-tolerant system design (5 lectures)
Virtualization: Type-1 and Type-2 virtualization, virtual machine, containers, dockers (4 lectures)
CSL7XX0 Data Management 1-0-0 [1]
Data Management: Structured data,
relational database management, unstructured data,
semi-structured data, Nosql database management (mongodb), column database, graph database,
XML, JSON, HDFS, Handling drift in data, sensor data reliability at software and algorithmic level,
sensor data analysis techniques (14 lectures)
CSL7XX0 Data Intensive Processing Systems 1-0-0 [1]
Data Intensive Processing Systems: Architecture of large scale data processing systems, Hadoop,
Apache Spark, Storm, parallel data processing concepts such as map-reduce, directed acyclic graph,
resilient distributed datasets, dynamic resource allocation, partial & shared computation, storage
architecture  (14 lectures)
Bass L., Clements P., Kazman R.,
(2012), Software Architecture in Practice, 3rd edition,
2. Martin K., (2017), Designing Data-Intensive Applications: The Big Ideas Behind Reliable, Scalable, and
Maintainable Systems, 1st Edition, O'Reilly Media
Self Learning Material
1. Tylor,R.N., Medvidovic,N. and Dashofy,E.M., (2014), Software Architecture Foundation: Theory and
Preparatory Course Material
1. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering
2. International Conference on Data Engineering
700 - Level Courses
● Elective Courses (CSE and AI&DS)
Advanced Artiﬁcial Intelligence (700)
Computer Science and Engineering
B. Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Data Structures and Algorithms
The Instructor will:
1.  Cover modern paradigms of AI that go beyond traditional learning.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Develop an understanding of modern concepts in AI and where they can be used.
2.  Design, implement and apply novel AI techniques based on emerging real-world
Decision Making: Utility theory, utility functions, decision networks, sequential decision problems,
Partially Observable MDPs, Game Theory (14 Lectures)
Probabilistic Reasoning over time: Hidden Markov Models, Kalman Filters, Time Series Analysis (10
Knowledge Representation: Information extraction, representation techniques, foundations of Ontology,
Ontological engineering, Situation Calculus, semantic networks, description logic (8  Lectures)
Planning: Planning with state space search, Partial-Order Planning, Planning Graphs, Planning with
Propositional Logic, hierarchical task network planning, non-deterministic domains, conditional planning,
continuous planning (6 Lectures)
Embodied AI: Introduction to visual navigation (synthetic and real environment), Embodied question
Introduction to AI Habitat simulation
answering in Synthetic Interactive and indoor environment,
platform. (4 Lectures)
1. Russel,S., and Norvig,P., (2015), Artiﬁcial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, 3rd Edition, Prentice
1. Yang, Q. (1997), Intelligent Planning: A decomposition and abstraction based approach, Springer
Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering, AI&DS
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
B.Tech, MTech, PhD
Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning / Deep
Learning / Machine Learning
1. To familiarize the students with types of biometrics including physical and behavioural modalities,
understanding biometric strengths, weaknesses and limitations, and biometric standards.
2. Describe a few techniques for designing biometric systems
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Develop new biometric systems for real-world applications, and become familiar with various
stages of biometric system development.
2. Develop an understanding of future direction and emerging technologies in biometrics.
Introduction:Biometric system design, Genesis of biometrics: human body properties, and biometric
data acquisition, System architecture, Performance Evaluation: Veriﬁcation, Identiﬁcation (4 Lectures)
Traditional and Emerging Biometric Modalities: Image/signal processing, Fingerprint matching, face
recognition, iris modelling, signature authentication, biometric pattern recognition, multi-modal
biometrics (23 Lectures)
Biometric Security: Encryption, cancelable biometrics and fuzzy vault (6 Lectures)
Biometric Devices: Security-Target design, Reliability design, Industry standards (6 Lectures)
Biomedical applications of Biometrics (3 Lectures)
1. A.K. JAIN, A. ROSS, K. NANDAKUMAR (2011), Introduction to Biometrics, Springer.
1. A.K. JAIN, A. ROSS, K. NANDAKUMAR, (Eds.), Handbook of Biometrics, Springer, 2008.
2. S.Z. LI, A.K. JAIN, (Eds.), Handbook of Face Recognition, Springer, 2011, 2nd Edition.
3. D. MALTONI, D. MAIO, A. JAIN, S. PRABHAKAR, (Eds.), Handbook of Fingerprint Recognition,
Springer, 2009, 2nd Edition.
4. M.J. BURGE, K.W. BOWYER, (Eds.), Handbook of Iris Recognition, Springer, 2016, 2nd Edition.
5. On-line resources will be provided.
700 - Level Elective Course
Advanced Computer Graphics
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1.   Discusses fundamentals of 2D and 3D object modeling and rendering
2.   Explain the Hardware and software related issues of Computer Graphics
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Understand fundamentals of graphics used in various real life applications
2.   Identify the performance characteristics of graphics algorithms
3.   Employ algorithm to model engineering problems, when appropriate
Introduction: Review of 2-D, and 3D Geometry, Viewing and Clipping (5 lectures)
Curves and Fractals: Parametric Cubic curves: B-spline, Bezier, Hermite, Surfaces, Fractals and its
applications (9 lectures)
Solid Modeling: Representation of Solids, Sweep and Boundary Representation, Constructive Solid
Geometry (8 lectures)
Illumination and Shading: Surface detail, shadows and Transparency,
Illumination Models, Extended Light Sources, Ray Tracing, Radiosity (6 lectures)
Image Based Rendering: Image synthesis, Geometry based, Plenoptic Function, Panorama, Lumigraph,
Rendering Virtual Reality (8 lectures)
Animation: Introduction, morphing, character animation and facial animation (3 lectures)
Graphics Hardware: Special-purpose computer graphics processors and accelerators (3 lectures)
Inter object Reﬂections,
1.   Shirley,M., (2016), Fundamentals of Computer Graphics, 4th Edition, CRC Press
2.   vanDam,F. and Hughes,F., (2013), Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice, 3rd Edition,
1. Mukundan,R., (2012), Advanced Methods in Computer Graphics: With Examples in OpenGL,
2. Ruben H., (2017), Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice, Larsen and Keller Education
Self Learning Material
1.   Computer Graphics, NPTEL Video Lectures, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106090/
700 - Level Elective Course
Advanced Machine Learning
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, MTech, PhD
PRML/Introduction to ML, AI
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
This is an advanced course on Machine Learning. It is intended for senior undergraduate and graduate
students who already have a background in PR or ML. The course is designed as a set of special topics
that will be covered through research papers and books. The course will focus on algorithms and
models along with providing a good perspective of different real world applications.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the algorithms and functioning of advanced techniques and concepts such as deep
learning, distance metric learning, and domain adaptation
2. Understand the advantages and limitations of the algorithms and their potential applications
3. Run several public domain machine learning toolboxes on real world databases such as MNIST and
4. Design experiments for evaluation and analyze the results to test the effectiveness of individual
components of an algorithm
Kernel Machines: Kernel properties, Kernels for structure data and text, Multiple kernel
learning, Generative models (3 Lectures)
Variants of Support Vector Machine: Hard and soft margin SVM, Online SVM, Distributed SVM (3
PAC Theory (6 Lectures)
Boosting: Adaboost, Gradient boosting (2 Lectures)
Structured Prediction and Graphical Models: Learning directed and undirected models, Sampling, MAP
inference and prediction, variational inference, causality (14 Lectures)
Dictionary Learning: Fundamentals, Regularization, Supervised and unsupervised dictionary, learning,
Transform learning (6 Lectures)
Deep Reinforcement Learning (8 Lectures)
1. N. CRISTIANINI, J. S-TAYLOR (2000), An Introduction to Support Vector Machines and Other
Kernel- based Learning Methods, Cambridge University Press, 1st Edition.
2. B. SCHOLKOPF, A. J. SMOLA (2001), Learning with Kernels: Support Vector Machines,
Regularization, Optimization, and Beyond, The MIT Press, 2001, 1st Edition.
3. R. S. SUTTON, A. G. BARTO (2018), Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction, The MIT Press,
4. D. KOLLER, N. FRIEDMAN (2009), Probabilistic Graphical Models: Principles and Techniques,
700 - Level Elective Course
Ad-Hoc Wireless Networks
B. Tech., M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
Introduce the mathematical models and network protocol designs in wireless Ad-hoc
2. Provide a systematic exposition of network protocols and their cross‐layer interactions
3. To provide more advanced in-depth networking knowledge. Upon completion of this course,
students will be able to apply the knowledge in their networking research. A broad perspective
on the active research areas in wireless Ad-hoc networks
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Demonstrate advanced knowledge of networking and wireless networking in particular
2. Compare different solutions for communications at each network layer
3. Demonstrate knowledge of protocols used in wireless communications
Basics of wireless networks and mobile computing: Ad hoc Networks: Introduction, Issues in Ad hoc
wireless networks, Ad hoc wireless internet (3 lectures)
Media access control in ad hoc and sensor networks: MAC Protocols for Ad hoc Wireless Networks:
Introduction, Issues in designing a MAC protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Design goals of a
MAC protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Classiﬁcation of MAC protocols, Contention based
protocols with reservation mechanisms. Contention-based MAC protocols with Scheduling
mechanism, MAC protocols that use directional antennas, Other MAC protocols, Network and
transport layer issues for ad hoc and sensor networks (8 lectures)
Routing protocols for Ad hoc Wireless Networks: Introduction, Issues in designing a routing protocol
for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Classiﬁcation of routing protocols, Table drive routing protocol,
On-demand routing protocol, Hybrid routing protocol, Routing protocols with effective ﬂooding
mechanisms, Hierarchical routing protocols, Power aware routing protocols (8 lectures)
Transport layer protocols: Transport layer protocols for Ad hoc Wireless Networks: Introduction,
Issues in designing a transport layer protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Design goals of a
transport layer protocol for Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Classiﬁcation of transport layer solutions, TCP
over Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Other transport layer protocols for Ad hoc Wireless Networks (8
Security issues for ad hoc networks: Security: Security in wireless Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Network
security requirements, Issues & challenges in security provisioning, Network security attacks, Key
management, Secure routing in Ad hoc Wireless Networks (6 lectures)
QoS for ad hoc Networks: Quality of service in Ad hoc Wireless Networks: Introduction, Issues and
challenges in providing QoS in Ad hoc Wireless Networks, Classiﬁcation of QoS solutions, MAC layer
solutions, network layer solutions (3 lectures)
Advanced Topics: Software-deﬁned network (SDN), Mesh networking, Energy issues and
Sensor networks (6 lectures)
Laboratory Experiments Programming exercises using NS2/NS3, QualNet, Java and OmNet++
1. Siva Ram Murthy, C., & Manoj, B. S. (2015). Ad hoc wireless networks: Architectures and
protocols. PHI Pearson Education
2. Akyildiz, Ian F., and Xudong Wang(2015). Wireless mesh networks. Vol. 3. John Wiley & Sons
1. Basagni, S., Conti, M., Giordano, S., & Stojmenovic, I. (Eds.). (2015). Mobile ad hoc networking.
John Wiley & Sons
2. Perkins, C. E. (2001). Ad hoc networking (Vol. 1). Reading: Addison-wesley
700 - Level Elective Course
3. Toh, C. K. (2001). Ad hoc mobile wireless networks: protocols and systems. Pearson Education
4. Cheng, X., Huang, X., & Du, D. Z. (Eds.). (2013). Ad hoc wireless networking (Vol. 14). Springer
Science & Business Media
Self Learning Material
1. Computer Networks - MIT OpenCourseWare
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M. Tech, Ph.D.
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The objective of the course is to introduce general-purpose techniques for large classes of intractable
Students will be able to:
1. Identify novel and signiﬁcant open research questions in the ﬁeld.
2. Apply their knowledge in the design and implementation of viable solutions to those problems.
Combinatorial Techniques: Metric TSP, Euclidean TSP, FPTAS for knapsack, Greedy algorithms for
makespan, PTAS for makespan, Local search: The Min degree spanning tree problem. (10 Lectures)
Linear Programming Relaxations: Linear programming: Vertex cover, Set cover via Dual ﬁtting, Set cover
via the Primal-Dual schema, Steiner forest, Facility location. (10 Lectures)
Cuts, Metrical Relaxations, and Embeddings: Basic embedding results and applications, Tree
at bulk network design and L1 embeddings, Min multicut and metrical relaxation for sparsest cut,
Rounding for sparsest cut via L1 embeddings, Balanced cuts and their applications, Tree embeddings
via random cuts. (10 Lectures)
Random Hyperplanes, Dimensionality Reduction, and Hashing: Solving semideﬁnite programs, Rounding
SDPs using random projections: MAX-CUT, Dimensionality reduction via random projections,
Approximate nearest neighbors, Locality sensitive hashing: Random projections and Min hashing. (10
Game Theory: Selﬁsh algorithmic strategies, Cost sharing schemes using Primal-Dual algorithms. (2
V. VAZIRANI (2013), Approximation Algorithms, Springer-Verlag.
1. M.R. GAREY, D.S. JOHNSON (2016), Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory of
NP- Completeness, W. H. Freeman Company.
2. D. DU, K.KO, X. HU (2011), Design and Analysis of Approximation Algorithms, Springer.
700 - Level Elective Course
Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Transportation
Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
B.Tech, MTech, PhD
1. The course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the applications of AI in
2. The course would have a Computer Science ﬂavor to transportation with relevant case studies.
At the end of this course, students would be able to appreciate the tremendous AI-driven impact on
transportation systems worldwide.
Traﬃc ﬂow basics (3 Lectures)
Continuum models of traﬃc ﬂow(4 Lectures)
Traﬃc modeling and control of freeways (3 Lectures)
Network-level traﬃc management (4 Lectures)
Control of traﬃc signals (4 Lectures)
ITS (Intelligent Transportation Systems) applications and case studies (4 Lectures)
Sensor technologies and data requirements of ITS(3 Lectures)
Overview of Autonomous Systems (4 Lectures)
Driverless Vehicles (3 Lectures)
Vehicular localization techniques (3 Lectures)
Future trends in transportation systems (3 Lectures)
Paper discussions (ﬂipped mode) (4 Lectures)
Please note that the course material would not be taken from a single book or resource. It would be a
combination of textbook material, research papers, and other sources.
1. Alam, M., Ferreira, J., & Fonseca, J. (2016). Introduction to intelligent transportation systems.
In Intelligent Transportation Systems (pp. 1-17). Springer, Cham.
2. Lipson, H., &Kurman, M. (2016). Driverless: Intelligent Cars and the road ahead. MIT Press.
1. Chowdhury, M. A., & Sadek, A. W. (2003). Fundamentals of intelligent transportation systems
planning. Artech House.
2. Recent relevant RFCs, Internet drafts, selected research papers from relevant venues:
Mobicom, MobiSys, SIGCOMM, Infocom, IEEE TMC, ACM MC2R.
2. Relevant research papers.
700 - Level Elective Course
B. Tech, MTech, PhD (All Branches)
Basics of Linear Algebra, Probability and Statistics
1. Provide an understanding about autonomous/ semi-autonomous systems like autonomous
mobile robots and cars.
1. Understand and use the methodologies to design, model and implementation of autonomous
systems for real time applications.
Fractal I: Introduction to Autonomous  Systems [14 Lectures]
● Introduction to Autonomous Systems, properties of autonomous systems, examples of
autonomous systems, degree of autonomy [3]
● Abstract Agent Architectures, Environment and agent, reactive, utility-based and behavior based
architectures. Concrete agent architectures, logical agents, introduction to Bayesian reasoning [7]
● Introduction to real-time systems, real-time environment, distributed solutions, notion of time,
fault-tolerance, modeling real-time systems [4]
Fractal II: Design of Autonomous vehicles [14 Lectures]
● Architecture of autonomous vehicles, processing pipeline, Vehicle Networks [1]
● Sensors for Navigation, GPS, IMU, Lidar, Camera, Visual Odometry, Place Recognition, Extraction
based on Range Data [5]
● Localization, Noise and Aliasing, Belief Representation, Map Representations, Probabilistic Map
based localization,  Autonomous Map Building, SLAM [4]
● Planning and Reacting, Path Planning and Obstacle Avoidance, Navigation Architectures, Data
Fractal III: Multi-agent systems [14 Lectures]
● Multi-agent systems and organizations, Hierarchical systems & peer-to-peer organization,
Openness & scalability, Emergent organization [2]
● Communication and coordination in distributed systems, Distributed Planning and Execution, Task
sharing, Coordination without communication [3]
● Game Theory, 2-player games, Nash Equilibrium, Strategy, Adversarial search, Iterative game and
learning, Pareto-eﬃciency, Negotiation, Social choice, Mechanism design, Auction [7]
● Autonomous systems and human society, ethics and trust in multi-agent systems, explainability [2]
1. Gerhard Weiss ed. (2013), Multiagent System, Second Edition, MIT Press.
2. Roland Siegwart, Illah Reza Nourbakhsh, Davide Scaramuzza (2018), Introduction to autonomous
mobile robots, MIT press.
1. Michael Wooldridge (2009), An introduction to multi-agent systems (2nd ed). Wiley
2. Stuart J. Russell and Peter Norvig (2019), Artiﬁcial
Intelligence: A Modern Approach, 4th
3. Hermann Kopetz. (2011). Real-time Systems (2nd ed). Kluwer Academic Publishers
4. Choset, H. M., Hutchinson, S., Lynch, K. M., Kantor, G., Burgard, W., Kavraki, L. E., &Thrun, S.
(2005). Principles of robot motion: theory, algorithms, and implementation. MIT press.
Other study materials
Research papers: (to be shared in class)
Online Course Material:
700 - Level Elective Course
Prerequisite Computer Programming, Linear algebra, Probability
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1. Provide details of bio-signal and medical image acquisition process
2. Explain information extraction and image analysis techniques using machine learning with
emphasis on the ﬁeld of healthcare, agriculture and environment
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand different imaging modalities and acquisition process
2. Apply machine learning techniques for bio-signal interpretation, image representation and analysis
CSL7XX1 Bio-signal Acquisition and Representation 1-0-0 [1]
Introduction: Overview of biological signals and biomedical
imaging modalities, ECG, NMR
spectroscopy, electron microscopy, magnetic resonance imaging, X-ray, computed tomography,
positron emission tomography, ultrasound, elastography, optical imaging and others, Noise and error
propagation in biomedical signals and image data (10 lectures)
Visualization: Sectioning, multimodal images, overlays, rendering surfaces and volumes (4 lectures)
CSL7XX1 Machine Learning for Bio-signal analysis 1-0-0 [1]
Reconstruction: Mathematical models of image regularity, random ﬁelds, practical data sampling and
acquisition schemes (4 lectures)
Restoration: Deconvolution, degradation models for corrupted and missing data, Bayesian graphical
modeling and inference, regression methods for ﬁltering of CT, MRI ultrasound and other images (4
Image segmentation, object delineation, classiﬁcation: Clustering, graph partitioning, classiﬁcation,
mixture models, expectation maximization, variational methods using geometric and statistical
modeling, computer aided diagnosis (4 lectures)
Registration: Deformation models, optimization algorithms, 2D-3D registration, multi-modal registration
CSL7XX2 Deep Learning for Bio-imaging 1-0-0[1]
Enhancement, Segmentation of anatomical structures, subcellular objects, cells, learning with little or
no training data, spatial transformer network for registration, image-based phenotyping, analysis of
radio-genomic data (10 lectures)
Analysis of motion: Tracking of cells, tissues, organisms, and particles (2 lectures)
Interactive image analysis: Human in loop, image interpretation (2 lectures)
Ultrasound image enhancement, tumor segmentation in BraTS dataset, registration of MRI images etc.
1. Wu, G., (2016), Machine Learning and Medical Imaging, Elsevier.
2. Epstein, C.L., (2003), Mathematics of Medical Imaging, Prentice Hall.
Bankman, I., (2009), Handbook of Medical Image Processing and Analysis, 2nd Edition, Academic
Preparatory Course Material
1. Bishop, C., (2006), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, MTech, PhD.
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The Instructor will:
1. Explain how blockchain technology works
Integrate blockchain technology into the current business processes to make them secure
1. Understand what and why of Blockchain
2. Explore major components of Blockchain and Identify a use case for a Blockchain
application Create their own Blockchain network application
Introduction to Blockchain: Digital Trust, Asset, Transactions, Distributed Ledger Technology, Types of
network, Components of blockchain,  mining, double spending attack, 51% attack. (5 Lectures)
PKI and Cryptography: Private keys cryptography, Public keys cryptography, Hashing, Digital Signature. (6
Consensus: Byzantine Fault, Proof of Work, Proof of Stake. (5 Lectures)
Cryptocurrency: Bitcoin creation and economy, Limited Supply and Deﬂation, Hacks, Ethereum concept and
Ethereum classic, Monero, Zcash, Zero knowledge proofs, etc. (9 Lectures)
Permissioned blockchains: Permissionless versus permissioned Blockchains (2 Lectures)
Hyperledger Fabric: Hyperledger Architecture, Membership, Blockchain, Transaction, Chaincode, Hyperledger
Fabric, Features of Hyperledger, Fabric Demo. (8 Lectures)
Blockchain Applications: Building on the Blockchain, Ethereum Interaction - Smart Contract and Token
(Fungible, non-fungible), Languages,Payment escrow, Micro payments, Decentralized lotteries
Blockchain-as-a-service. (6 Lectures)
A. BAHGA, V. MADISETTI (2017), Blockchain Applications: A Hands-On Approach, VPT.
Self Learning Material
1. M. SWAN (2015), Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy, O’Reilly Media.
2. R. WATTENHOFER (2016), The Science of the Blockchain, CreateSpace Independent Publishing
I. BASHIR (2017), Mastering blockchain, Packt Publishing Ltd.
4. K.E. LEVY, Book-smart, Not Street-smart: Blockchain-based Smart Contracts and the Social Workings
of Law, Engaging Science, Technology, and Society, vol. 3, pp. 1-15, 2017.
Preparatory Course Material
MIT Online Blockchain Course, Learn Blockchain Technology: https://getsmarter.mit.edu/
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P- D[C])
B.Tech., M.Tech. Ph.D.
Maths for Computing
1. To introduce key challenges for modern compilers and runtime systems
2. To explain various optimization techniques of a typical compilation workﬂow.
1. To learn about compilation techniques for obtaining high performance on modern
2. To analyze and optimize various components of compilation stages
Representing Programs: Abstract Syntax Tree, Control Flow Graph, Dataﬂow Graph, Static Single
Assignment, Control Dependence Graph, Program Dependence Graph, Call Graph. (11 Lectures)
Analysis/Transformation Algorithms: Dataﬂow Analysis, Interprocedural analysis, Pointer analysis, Rule-
based analyses and transformations. Constraint-based analysis. (12 Lectures)
Applications: Scalar optimizations, Loop optimizations, Object-oriented optimizations, Register
allocation, Program veriﬁcation, Bug ﬁnding. (8 Lectures)
Advanced Topics: Just-in-time compilation, Memory Management, EDGE architecture compilation,
Power- aware compilation, Machine speciﬁc optimizations (11 lectures).
K.D. COOPER, L.TORCZON (2011), Engineering a Compiler, Morgan Kaufmann, 2nd Edition.
S. MUCHNICK (1998), Advanced Compiler Design Implementation, Morgan Kaufmann.
1. Y.N. SRIKANT, P.SHANKAR (Eds.) (2007), The Compiler Design Handbook: Optimizations and
Machine Code Generation, CRC Press, 2nd Edition.
2. A.V. AHO, M.S. LAM, R. SETHI, J.D. ULLMAN (2007), Compilers: Principles, Techniques and Tools,
Addison-Wesley, 2nd Edition.
3. R. ALLEN, K. KENNEDY (2001), Optimizing Compilers for Modern Architectures: A Dependence
Based Approach, Morgan Kaufmann, 1st Edition.
4. M. WOLFE (1995), High-Performance Compilers for Parallel Computing, Addison-Wesley.
5. IEEE and ACM Digital Library.
Self Learning Material
NPTEL Lecture: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106/108/106108052/
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech CSE, M.Tech CSE, Ph.D.
Maths for Computing, Data Structures and
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The course provides a challenging introduction to some of the central ideas of theoretical computer
science. It attempts to present a vision of computer science beyond computers.
Students are expected to understand:
1. The theory of classical complexity classes and its challenges.
2. The state-of-the-art in the ﬁeld of complexity theory.
Basic Complexity Classes: The computational model, NP and NP completeness, Diagonalization, Space
complexity, The Polynomial hierarchy and alternations, Circuits, Randomized computation, Interactive
proofs, Complexity of counting, Complexity issues in cryptography. (16 Lectures)
Lower Bounds for Concrete Computational Models: Decision trees, Communication complexity, Circuit
lower bounds, Algebraic computation models. (10 Lectures)
Advanced topics: Average case complexity: Levin’s theory, Derandomization, Expanders and extractors,
Hardness ampliﬁcation and Error correcting codes, PCP and hardness of approximation, Logic in
complexity theory, Quantum computation. (16 Lectures)
S. ARORA, B. BARAK (2009), Computational Complexity: A Modern Approach, Cambridge University
Press, 1st Edition.
MIT Lecture Notes, Automata, Computability, and Complexity, Electrical Engineering and Computer
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
The Instructor will:
1. Familiarize with the market design
2. Focus on algorithms to clear the market
3. Familiarize with the algorithmic game theory
The students will have the ability to:
1. Design market
2. Use computer science knowledge to solve economic problems
Introduction to Market Design: introduction to various types of auctions, bidding languages, matching
market, voting. [6 lectures]
Auction: Myerson’s Lemma, Knapsack auction, revenue-maximising auction, exchanges. [8 lectures]
Matching Market: Kidney exchange, stable matching, various notions of optimal matching. [8 lectures]
Noncooperative Game Theory: self-interested agents, price of anarchy, non-atomic and atomic models
of selﬁsh routing. [5 lectures]
Games in Normal Form: pareto optimality, nash equilibria, various solution concepts and their
computation. [10 lectures]
Games in Extensive Form: backwards induction, subgame perfect equilibrium, imperfect information,
equilibrium reﬁnements, computing equilibria. [5 lectures]
Shoham, Y. & Brown, K.L., (2008), Multiagent systems: Algorithmic, game-theoretic, and logical
foundations, Cambridge University Press.
Roughgarden, T. (2016), Twenty lectures on algorithmic game theory, Cambridge University Press.
Self Learning Material
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., Ph.D.
Data Structures and Algorithms
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce various terminologies, concepts and algorithms related to classical, heuristic and
nature inspired optimization algorithms
2.  Discuss their applications in real-world scenarios
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Utilize state of the art heuristic optimization algorithms in their research activities
2.   Design and propose new and hybrid optimization algorithms
3.   Customize heuristic optimization algorithms for special applications
Introduction, Deﬁnitions and Concepts: Optimization, Operational Research (OR), Engineering
Optimization, Deﬁnition of an Optimization Problem, Feasibility Problem, Classiﬁcation of Optimization
Problems, Classiﬁcation of Optimization Techniques, Heuristic Algorithms vs. Metaheuristics, Swarm
Intelligence, Population-Based Optimization, Multi-objective Optimization, Parallelization, Evaluation of
the Optimization Algorithms (6 lectures)
Overview of Classical Optimization Techniques: Linear programming, Nonlinear Programming (3
Overview of Heuristic Optimization Algorithms: Neighborhood Search, Hill Climbing Methods, Greedy
Algorithms, Simulated Annealing (3 lectures)
Overview of Nature Inspired Optimization Algorithms: Evolutionary Algorithms, Tabu Search, Ant Colony
Optimization, Particle Swarm Optimization (2 lectures)
Simulated Annealing: Real Annealing and Simulated Annealing, Metropolis Algorithm, Simulated
Annealing Algorithm, Continuous Simulated Annealing, One-loop Simulated Annealing, Temperature
Scheduling, Convergence of Simulated Annealing, Applications, Normalization of the Parameters,
Tuning the Parameters of an algorithm (9 lectures)
Evolutionary Algorithms: Methods of encoding, Operators of Evolution, Models of Evolution, Genetic
Algorithms, Steady State Genetic Algorithms, Genetic Programming, Memetic Algorithms, Differential
Evolution (7 lectures)
Tabu Search: Basic Tabu Search, Short-term Memory, Long-term Memory, Diversiﬁcation and
Intensiﬁcation, Continuous Tabu Search (4 lectures)
Ant Colony Optimization: Collective Behavior of Social Insects, Basic ACO Algorithms, Ant Algorithms
for TSP, Adaptation to Continuous Problems, Applications (5 lectures)
Particle Swarm Optimization: Canonical PSO Algorithm,
Topologies (3 lectures)
Important Parameters, Neighborhood
1.Michalewicz,Z. and Fogel,D.B., (2004), How to Solve it: Modern Heuristics, 2nd Edition, Springer
2.Simon, D., (2013), Evolutionary Optimization Algorithms, Wiley
3.Yang,X.S., (2014), Nature-inspired Metaheuristic Algorithms, Luniver Press
1.   Rao, S.S., (2013), Engineering Optimization: Theory and Practice, 3rd Edition, New Age
Self Learning Material
1.   NPTEL: Traditional and Non-traditional Optimization Tools
700 - Level Elective Course
Computational Social Choice Theory
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M. Tech, Ph.D.
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
The Instructor will:
1. Familiarize with mechanisms for collective decision making
2. Focus on interface of social choice theory with theoretical computer science
3. Enable students to conduct research in this fast-growing ﬁeld
Students will have the ability to:
1. Understand the problems and research directions in computational social choice.
2. Mathematically formulate the problems that arise in society, and design eﬃcient rules for
3. Analyse computational complexity of problems in social choice.
Introduction to Voting Theory: social choice functions, voting rules and their axiomatic study. [5
Computational hardness and Algorithms for voting rules: Condorcet, minimax, Dodgson’s rule, and
Kemeny. [5 lectures]
Manipulation in Voting: various means of manipulation: strategic voting, bribery, control, computational
hardness and algorithms. [7 lectures]
Multiwinner Election: voting rules and their computational complexity. [4 lectures]
Matching under preferences: introduction to stable matching, Gale-Shapley algorithm, hospital/resident
problem, stable roommate problem. [8 lectures]
Manipulation in Matching: means of manipulations, computational hardness and algorithms. [3
Introduction to Fair Allocation: basic terminologies, fairness and eﬃciency criteria. [4 lectures]
Fair Allocation of goods: fair allocation of indivisible and divisible goods. [6 lectures]
1. Brandt, F., Conitzer, V., Endriss, U., Lang, J., & Procaccia, A.D. (2016). Handbook of
Computational Social Choice. Cambridge University Press.
2. Gusﬁeld, D., & Irving, R.W. (1989). The Stable Marriage Problem: Structure and Algorithms. MIT press
3. Manlove, D. (2013). Algorithmics Of Matching Under Preferences. World Scientiﬁc
1. Endriss, U. (2017). Trends in Computational Social Choice. Lulu. com
2. Lecture Notes on Fair Division by U. Endriss
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Graphics (700)
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., Ph.D.
Computer Graphics (400) -
The Instructor will:
1. Provide a thorough introduction to computer graphics techniques, focusing on 2D and 3D
modelling, image synthesis and rendering
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Explain and create interactive graphics application
3. Synthesize and render images for animation and visualization
Implement graphics primitives
CSL7xx1 Introduction to Graphical Primitives 1-0-0 [1]
Introduction: Overview of computer graphics, representing pictures, preparing, presenting & interacting
with pictures for presentations; Scan conversion: 2D Geometric Primitives; Area Filling algorithms.
Clipping algorithms, Anti Aliasing
Transformations and viewing: 2D and 3D transformations, Matrix representations & homogeneous
coordinates, Viewing pipeline, Window to viewport coordinate transformation, clipping operations,
viewport clipping, 3D viewing.
CSL7xx2 Graphical Object Representation 1-0-0 [1]
Curves and Surfaces: Conics, parametric and non-parametric forms; Bezier (Bernstein Polynomials)
Curves, Cubic-Splines, B-Splines; Quadratic surfaces, Bezier surfaces and NURBS, 3-D modelling.
CSL7xx3 Graphics Rendering 1-0-0 [1]
Hidden surfaces: Depth comparison, Z-buffer algorithm, Back face detection, BSP tree method, the
Printer’s algorithm, scan-line algorithm; Hidden line elimination, wire frame methods, fractal
Color & shading models: Phong's shading model, Gouraud shading, Shadows and background, Color
models, Photo-realistic rendering, Animation and OpenGL primitives: Functions, pipeline, sample
programs for drawing 2-D, 3-D objects; event handling and view manipulation, Introduction to GPU and
1. J. D. Foley, A. Van Dam, S. K. Feiner and J. F. Hughes, Computer Graphics; Principles and
practice, Addison Wesley, 2nd  Edition in C,  1997.
2. D. F. Rogers and J. A. Adams, Mathematical elements for Computer Graphics, McGraw-Hill,
2nd Edition, 1990.
1.  Blender: https://www.blender.org/download/
2. OpenGL: http://www.opengl-tutorial.org/
Preparatory Course Material
1.Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Network Protocols and Applications
B.Tech, M.Tech., Ph.D.
Data Structures and Algorithms
1. To understand the organization of computer networks, factors inﬂuencing the performance of
computer networks, and the reasons for having a variety of different types of networks.
2. To understand the Internet structure, various protocols of the Internet and how these
protocols address the standard problems of networking and the Internet.
3. To introduce some advanced concepts both in the wired as well as wireless networks.
1. Familiarity with the essential protocols of computer networks in terms of design,
implementation and operations.
2. Students would be able to appreciate different types of wired and wireless networks.
Introduction: Review of the Internet architecture and layering (2 Lectures)
Application Layer: Application layer protocols, End-to-End data, multimedia networking applications
(image, audio, video compression) (6 Lectures)
Transport Layer: TCP congestion and ﬂow control, Flow Rate Fairness Algorithms, Fair Queueing
Algorithms Congestion Avoidance and Control, Algorithms for Congestion Avoidance in Computer
Networks , Congestion Control for High Bandwidth-Delay Product Networks (8 lectures)
Network Layer: End-to-End Routing Algorithm, intra- and inter-domain routing Algorithms, e.g., BGP,
MPLS, Stable Paths Problem and Selﬁsh Routing Algorithms, Mobility aspects and MobileIP, Routing
in Ad hoc and wireless networks (8 Lectures)
Software deﬁned networks and Network Virtualization: OpenFlow/SDN control, Mininet, Network
Function Virtualization, Networking in dockers. (6 Lectures)
Advanced topics: VPN, Data centre Networking, Content Delivery Networks, Overlay networks, low
power wide range communication, TV Whitespaces (12 lectures)
1. K.W. ROSS, J.F. KUROSE (2016), Computer Networks: A Top Down Approach, Pearson, 7th
1. W. STALLINGS (2013), Data and Computer Communications, Pearson, 10th Edition.
2. L.L. PETERSON, B.S. DAVIE (2020), Computer Networks: A Systems Approach, Morgan
Kaufmann, 6th Edition.
2. TCP/IP Guide, Charles M. Kozierok, Available Online - http://www.tcpipguide.com/
3. NPTEL Online Lectures: https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc21_cs18/preview
4. Selected research papers
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering, AI&DS
B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1. Provide insights into fundamental concepts and algorithms behind some of
the remarkable success of Computer Vision
Impart working expertise by means of programming assignments and a project
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Learn and appreciate the usage and implications of various Computer Vision techniques
in real-world scenarios
2. Design and implement basic applications of Computer Vision
Introduction: The Three R’s - Recognition, Reconstruction, Reorganization (1 Lecture)
Fundamentals: Formation, Filtering, Transformation, Alignment, Color (5 Lectures)
Image Restoration: Spatial Processing and Wavelet-based Processing (5 Lectures)
Geometry: Homography, Warping, Epipolar Geometry, Stereo, Structure from Motion, Optical ﬂow (9
Segmentation: Key point Extraction, Region Segmentation (e.g., boosting, graph-cut and level-set),
RANSAC (6 Lectures)
Feature Description and Matching: Key-point Description, handcrafted feature extraction (SIFT, LBP)
Deep Learning based Segmentation and Recognition: DL-based Object detection (e.g. Mask-RCNN,
YOLO), Semantic Segmentation, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based approaches to visual
recognition (9 Lectures)
Applications: Multimodal and Multitask Applications (4 Lectures)
1. R. HARTLEY, A. ZISSERMAN (2004), Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision, Cambridge
University Press, 2nd Edition.
2. R. SZELISKI, (2010), Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications, Springer-Verlag London.
1. Research literature
700 - Level Elective Course
Crowd-sourcing and human-computing
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech (All), M.Tech
Data Structures & Algorithms
The Instructor will:
1. familiarize with the techniques to manage the crowd
2. focus on building intelligent systems that involve a combination of computers
and humans collaborating seamlessly over the Internet
The students will have the ability to:
1. Program the crowd
2. Apply usability principles for designing crowd tasks that elicit high-quality responses
3. Use statistical methods to improve the quality of the work received
4. Build systems that interface with crowd labor in real time
Introduction to Crowdsourcing and Human Computation: introduction, history, connections to
social computing, collective intelligence, and management science [4 lectures]
Human Computation Algorithms: design patterns, case study, discussion [4 lectures]
Usability Engineering for CrowdSourcing: input-agreement mechanisms, output-agreement
mechanisms [4 lectures]
Gold Standards: consensus algorithms, incentive mechanisms, gamiﬁcation [6 lectures]
Real-time crowdsourcing: queuing theory for predicting worker availability, ensemble learning,
crowd agents [6 lectures]
Crowdsourcing Subjective Tasks: social Q&A, expertise in crowdsourcing, local crowdsourcing /
community sourcing, crowd funding, citizen science [6 lectures]
Task Routing: push and pull approaches [4 lectures]
Crowds & Applications: Crowds: mechanical turk, social media; Applications: computer vision, NLP
Law, E., & Ahn, Ahn, L. (2012). Human Computation: An Integrated Approach to Learning from the
Crowd, Morgan & Claypool Publishers.
1. Ghosh, A., Lease, M., (2016). Human Computation and Crowdsourcing. Proceedings of
the Fourth AAAI Conference
2. Lease M., Alonso O. (2018) Crowdsourcing and Human Computation: Introduction. In: Alhajj R.,
J. (eds) Encyclopedia of Social Network Analysis and Mining. Springer, New York.
700 - Level Elective Course
B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Introduce students to the domain of Symmetric and Asymmetric Cryptography, and develop an
appreciation for some applications in which Cryptography is used in real-life.
1. Learn to model security of various cryptographic primitives as an adversarial game.
2. Learn the design principles of Block ciphers, stream ciphers, hash functions, MAC’s, public key
encryption, and digital signatures.
Identify novel and signiﬁcant open research questions in the ﬁeld.
4. Using cryptographic primitives to design some real life protocols, such as ZKP,
coin tossing over insecure-channel, and MPC.
Foundations [9 lectures]: Attacking Toy ciphers, Kerckhoff’s law, Perfect security, OWF, PRG, PRF, PRP
Symmetric key cryptography [12 lectures]: Block ciphers, stream ciphers, hash functions, MAC,
Asymmetric Key cryptography [12 lectures]: DKHE, RSA, El Gamal cryptosystems (with required
mathematical foundations), Elliptic Curve Cryptography, Digital signatures, Public Key Infrastructure and
Cryptographic protocols [9 lectures]: Secure multiparty computation, Zero knowledge proofs, Oblivious
1. Katz, Lindell: Theory of modern cryptography, CRC Press, 3rd Edition.
2. Hoffstein, Pﬁpher, Silverman: Introduction to mathematical cryptography
Self Learning Material
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B. Tech, MTech, Ph. D.
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-2 [4]
Security and its
1. The Instructor will provide the skills needed to protect networks, secure electronic
assets, prevent attacks, ensure the privacy of your customers, and build secure
To protect data and respond to threats that occur over the Internet
2. Design and implement risk analysis, security policies, and damage assessment
An ability to apply security principles and practices to the environment, hardware,
software, and human aspects of a system.
Introduction to Cyber Security: Internet governance – Challenges and constraints, Cyber
threats. (2 Lectures)
Cyber Security Vulnerabilities and Cyber Security Safeguards: Cyber security, Vulnerabilities,
safeguards, Access control, Authentication, Biometrics, Deception, Denial of Service Filters,
Ethical hacking, Firewalls, Response, Scanning, Security policy, Threat management. (8
Cryptography: Shannon’s Approach to Cryptography: Measures of security, Perfect secrecy,
Deﬁnition of entropy, One-time pad , Symmetric Key Cryptography, Cryptographic Hash
Functions, Authentication, Public Key Cryptosystems, Key Distribution and Key Agreement
Protocols( 4 Lectures )
Securing Web Application, Services and Servers: Basic security for HTTP applications and
Identity management and Web services,
services, Basic security for SOAP services,
Authorization patterns, Security considerations, challenges. (4 Lectures)
Network Security: TCP/IP threats, The IPSEC protocol, The SSL and TLS protocols, Firewalls
and Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), Electronic mail security, Worms, DDoS attacks, BGB and
security considerations (12 lectures)
Intrusion Detection and Prevention:
Intrusion detection and Prevention techniques,
Anti-malware software, Security information management, Network session analysis, System
integrity validation. (4 Lectures)
Cyberspace and the Law: Cyber security regulations, Roles of international law, State and
Private Sector in cyberspace, Cyber security standards. The INDIAN cyberspace, National
cyber security policy. (5 Lectures)
Cyber Forensics: Handling preliminary investigations, Controlling an investigation, Conducting
disk-based analysis, Investigating information-hiding, Tracing internet access, Tracing memory
in real-time. (4 Lectures)
1. Design and implementation of a simple client/server model and running application
using sockets and TCP/IP.
To make students aware of the insecurity of default passwords, printed passwords
and passwords transmitted in plain text.
3. To teach students how to use SSH for secure ﬁle transfer or for accessing local
computers using port forwarding technique.
4. Comparison between Telnet and SSH for Secure Connection
5. AVISPA Tool for the Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols and
700 - Level Elective Course
1. C.J. HOOFNAGLE (2016), Federal Trade Commission Privacy Law and Policy,
Cambridge University Press, 2016.
2. Stallings, W. (2017). Cryptography and network security, 7/E. Pearson Education
1. Douglas R. Stinson, Maura B. Paterson (2018). Cryptography: theory and practice.
4/E Chapman and Hall/CRC
2. P.W. SINGER, A. FRIEDMAN (2014), Cybersecurity: What Everyone Needs to Know,
OUP, 1st Edition.
700 - Level Elective Course
Data Visualization (700)
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
Data Engineering / DBMS
(400) - CSL4xx
The Instructor will:
1.   Provide background to understand various aspects of Data Visualization
2.   Discuss various principles of visualizing heterogeneous types of data
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Present data with visual representations for the target audience, task, and data
2.   Analyze, critique, and revise data visualizations
3.   Apply appropriate design principles in the creation of presentations and visualizations
Visual Queries: Process of Seeing, The Act of Perception, Design Implications, Distributed
Cognition, Visual Search Strategies (3 lectures)
Data and Visualization: Data Type, Coordinate Systems, Scale (2 lectures)
Visualization Design: Amount, Distribution, Proportion, Trends, Time Series, Geospatial
Narratives: Telling Stories with Data, Sequencing, Visualization Rhetoric, text visualization (4
Mapping and Cartography: The Cartogram, Value-by-Area Mapping (4 lectures)
Optimal Space Usage: Aspect Ratio Selection, Geometry & Aesthetics, Wilkinson’s Algorithm
and its extension (6 lectures)
Networks: Scalable, Versatile and Simple Constrained Graph Layout, Visualization of
Adjacency, Multiple Network Analysis and Visualization, Visualizing Online Social Networks (7
Animation and Color: Trend Visualization, Transitions in Statistical Data Graphics, Graphs with
Radial Layout, Cartoons, Color and Information, Infographics (7 lectures)
1. Tufte,E., (2001), The Visual Display of Quantitative Information, 2nd Edition, Graphics
2. Tufte,E., (1990), Envisioning Information, Graphics Press
(2019), Fundamentals of Data Visualization: A Primer on Making
Informative and Compelling Figures, O’Reilly Media
2. Ware,C. and Kaufman,M., (2008), Visual thinking for design. Burlington: Morgan
3. Wong,D., (2011), The Wall Street Journal guide to information graphics: The dos and
don’ts of presenting data, facts and ﬁgures, New York: W.W. Norton & Company
Preparatory Course Material
1.   Data Visualization Course, https://curran.github.io/dataviz-course-2018/
700 - Level Elective Course
Digital Image Analysis
Computer Science and Engineering, EE
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1. To introduce the origin and formation of digital imaging.
2. To develop the understanding of different types of imaging techniques for different
3. To equip the students with various possible applications of image analysis.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Enhance image in spatial and frequency domain.
Implement various aspects of image segmentation and compression.
Digital Image Fundamentals: Image modeling, Sampling and Quantization, Imaging Geometry,
Digital Geometry, Image Acquisition Systems, Different types of digital images (3 Lectures)
Image Transforms: Basic transforms: Spatial and Frequency Domain Transforms (8 Lectures)
Image Enhancement: Point processing,
enhancement in frequency domain (7 Lectures)
Color Image Processings:Color Representation, Laws of color matching, chromaticity diagram,
color enhancement, color image segmentation, color edge detection (3 Lectures)
Image compression: Lossy and lossless compression schemes, prediction based compression
vector quantization, sub-band encoding schemes, JPEG compression standard (4 Lectures)
Morphology:Dilation, erosion, opening, closing, hit and miss transform, thinning, extension to
grayscale morphology, Euler technique (5 Lectures)
Segmentation: Segmentation of grey level images, Watershed algorithm for segmenting grey
level  image (6 Lectures)
Feature Detection:Fourier descriptors, shape features, object matching/features (6 Lectures)
in spatial domain,
1. C. GONZALEZ, R.E. WOODS (2018), Digital Image Processing, Prentice Hall, 4th
2. A.K. JAIN (1989), Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing, Prentice Hall.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M. Tech, Ph.D.
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
The objective of the course is to introduce the distributed algorithms in real-world systems
Students will be able to:
1. Introduce the most important basic results in the area of distributed algorithms, and prepare
interested students to begin independent research or take a more advanced course in
2. Implement distributed algorithms in real-world distributed computing platforms
3. Understand and identify applications of distributed algorithms in real-world systems
Introduction to Distributed Computing Models : Model of a distributed system: asynchronous
message-passing model, Time and message complexity, Safety and liveness properties, Clock
Synchronization [5 Lectures ]
Leader Election Logical Clocks and Causality: Leader election in rings, Asynchronous leader
election with identities,
Synchronous leader election by abusing the synchronous model, Logical clocks and vector clocks
, Snapshots and synchronization [ 7 Lectures]
Message Ordering and Group Communication: Termination Detection Algorithms and
Reasoning with Knowledge [4 Lectures]
Distributed  Mutual  Exclusion  Algorithms: Lamport’s algorithm, Ricart–Agrawala  algorithm,
and Deadlock Detection Algorithms [6 Lectures]
Global  Predicate  Detection: Modalities on predicates, Centralized algorithm for relational
Conjunctive predicates, Distributed algorithms for conjunctive predicates [3 Lectures]
Distributed Shared Memory: Memory consistency models, Shared memory mutual exclusion
and Wait- freedom [6 Lectures]
Checkpointing and Rollback Recovery: Checkpoint-based recovery and Log-based rollback
recovery [3 Lectures]
Consensus and Agreement
memory consensus in asynchronous systems [6 Lectures]
Distributed Programming Environments: Communication primitives, selected case studies [2
in a failure-free system (synchronous or
in (message-passing) synchronous systems with Failures,
in asynchronous message-passing systems with failures , Wait-free shared
A.D. KSHEMKALYANI, M. SINGHAL (2011), Distributed Computing: Principles, Algorithms, and
Systems, Cambridge University Press.
1. N. LYNCH, (1996), Distributed Algorithms, Morgan Kaufmann, 1st Edition.
2. G. TEL, (2000), Introduction to Distributed Algorithms, Cambridge University Press, 2nd
700 - Level Elective Course
Distributed Database Systems
Computer Science & Engineering
B.Tech, MTech, PhD
Operating Systems, Database Systems,
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
To understand and appreciate concepts of distributed database design, and its associated
issues of consistency, concurrency, optimization, integrity, reliability, privacy, and security.
Ability to understand the need for distributed database systems and its related complexities
pertaining to fragmentation, replication, availability, concurrency, consistency and recovery.
Introduction: Distributed data processing concepts, What is a DDBS - advantages,
disadvantages and problem areas. (2 Lectures)
Distributed Database Management System Architectures: Transparencies, Architecture, Global
directory concepts and issues. (3 Lectures)
Distributed Database Design: Design strategies, Design issues, Fragmentation, Data allocation.
Semantics Data Control: View management, Data security, Semantic integrity control. (5
Query Processing: Objectives, Characterization of processors, Layers of processing, Query
decomposition, Data localization. (5 Lectures)
Query Optimization: Factors, Centralized query optimization, Fragmented query ordering,
Query optimization algorithms. (5 Lectures)
Transaction Management: Goals, Properties, Models. (4 Lectures)
Concurrency Control: Concurrency control in centralized systems, Concurrency control in
DDBSs - algorithms, Deadlock management. (5 Lectures)
Reliability: Issues and types of failures, Reliability techniques, Commit protocols, Recovery
protocols. (5 Lectures)
Other Avenues: Parallel database Systems, Multi-databases. (4 Lectures)
S. CERI, G. PELAGATTI (2008), Distributed Databases: Principles and Systems, McGraw-Hill, 1st
Edition (2017 Reprint).
M.T. ÖZSU, P. VALDURIEZ (2011), Principles of Distributed Database Systems, Springer, 3rd
700 - Level Elective Course
Edge and Fog Computing
Computer Science & Engineering
Operating Systems, Computer Networks Antirequisite
Structure (L-T-P [C])
This course will introduce design concepts, frameworks, and applications in Edge Computing to
Students are expected to:
1. Understand various edge devices and their ecosystems, issues and challenges
2. Develop edge-based distributed computing platforms and applications
Introduction of Edge and Fog Computing: Internet of Things (IoT) and New computing
paradigms, Fog computing: A platform for Internet of Things and analytics, Emergence of edge
computing, Legal aspects of operating IoT applications in the fog. (6 Lectures)
Edge Architecture: Multi-Tier cloud computing framework; Data services with clouds at home;
Leveraging mobile devices to provide cloud service at the edge; Fast, scalable and secure
onloading of edge functions. (8 Lectures)
Networking for Edge & Fog: Integrating IoT + Fog + Cloud Infrastructures: System modeling and
research Challenges, Management and Orchestration of network slices in 5G, Fog, Edge, and
Clouds. (6 Lectures)
System Design: Optimization problems in fog and edge computing, Middleware for fog and
edge Computing: Design issues, A Lightweight container middleware for edge cloud
architectures. (8 Lectures)
Data Processing: Data management in fog computing, Predictive analysis to support fog
application deployment, Using machine learning for protecting the security and privacy of
Internet of Things (IoT) systems, fog Computing realization for Big data analytics. (8 Lectures)
Applications and Case Studies: Fog computing realization for Big data analytics, exploiting fog
computing in health monitoring, Smart surveillance video stream processing at the edge for
real‐time human objects tracking, Fog computing model for evolving smart transportation
applications. (6 Lectures)
R. BUYYA, S.N. SRIRAMA (2019), Fog and Edge Computing: Principles and Paradigms,
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
Computer Organization and Architecture
The Instructor will:
1. Explain the design of embedded systems and introduce concepts of different
architectures and programming languages of embedded processors.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Program and to design embedded system using embedded processors
2. Design Embedded AI systems
3.  Use different IDE and debugging tools
Introduction: Review of Embedded Computing, embedded system design process (4 lectures)
Architectures of embedded processors: Architecture of ARM Cortex M3, DSP and graphics
processors,memory system mechanism, caches, memory management units and address
translation, interfacing (10 lectures)
Programming and Software: models for program, data ﬂow graphs, C and assembly language
programming of ARM Cortex M3, Hardware- Software Co-design (12 lectures)
Embedded Operating Systems: Linux, Processes and real time operating systems; Multi-rate
system; scheduling algorithms (8 lectures)
Embedded AI: Basics of embedded learning and adaptive systems,
rule-based systems, hardware accelerators for AI, heterogeneous memory system design,
current trends and future directions (8 lectures)
1. Wolf, M., (2012), Computers as Components: Principles of Embedded Computing
System Design, 3rd Edition, Elsevier.
2. Yiu, J., (2013), The deﬁnitive Guide to ARM Cortex M3 and M4 Processors, 3rd Edition,
3. Alippi, C., (2014), Intelligence for Embedded Systems: A Methodological Approach,
Preparatory Course Material
1. Mazidi, M.A.,
(2007), The 8051 Microcontroller and Embedded Systems: Using
Assembly and C, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education India.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech (All), M.Tech, Ph.D.
Data Structure and Algorithms
The Instructor will:
Introduce techniques for environmental modeling, environmental databases and
The students will have the ability to:
1. Apply the techniques for environment modeling on typical applications of
environment monitoring and protection.
2. Appreciate the multidisciplinary nature of environmental problems.
Introduction to Environmental Informatics: environmental objects, characterisation of an
environmental system, environmental metadata. [2 lectures]
Data capture and data storage: introduction, object taxonomies, mapping the
environment, advanced techniques. [3 lectures]
Environmental sampling: sampling design, essentials for sampling of environmental data,
satellite imagery [4 lectures]
Hydrological Modeling: Rainfall-Runoff models, Precipitation Models, Climate Models. [4
Geographical information systems [4 lectures]
Environmental data analysis: Scales of operation of environmental data, re-sampling of
environmental data, approximation of environmental data, trend estimation of environmental
data [7 lectures]
Environmental statistics: probability distributions of environmental data, statistical measures,
statistical tests, regression and correlation [6 lectures]
Environmental time series: fourier analysis, stationary processes, time correlation functions,
frequency functions [7 lectures]
Environmental simulation models: modelling procedure, types and classiﬁcation of
mathematical models, process identiﬁcation, an eutrophication simulator. [5 lectures]
1. Günther, O., (1989). Environmental Information Systems. Springer, Berlin.
2. Box, G. E. P., Jenkins, G. M. & Reinsel, G. C., (1994). Time Series Analysis. 5th ed., Prentice
Hall, Englewood Cliffs.
Avouris, N. M. and Page, B. (eds.), (1995). Environmental Informatics – Methodology and
Applications of Environmental Information Processing. Kluwer, Dordrecht.
700 - Level Elective Course
Course Title Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulations in AI
Department Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 1-0-0 [1]
Prerequisite Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning or
B.Tech, MTech, PhD
ML or IML AI,
1. To understand implications and consequences of ethics, law, Regulations (data - privacy,
ownership, data marketplace, etc) Policy in AI
Students are expected to have the ability to develop an understanding of:
1. Ramiﬁcations of AI technologies on society
2. Ethical aspects of AI, ML and DS systems
3. Data privacy, ownership and IPR issues
4. Law, Regulations, Liabilities and Policies of AI, ML and DS systems
Ethics in AI
Law and Regulations
1. Online resources
2. Will be added in future
700 - Level Elective Course
Fundamentals of Machine Learning
Computer Science and Engineering
Masters and PhD in Non-CS/AI Programs
Bridge Course of Programming (Python)
1. To introduce the fundamental theories of machine learning.
2. To equip the students with knowledge of implementation of data analysis and evaluation
of machine learning algorithms.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Explain the basic concepts of ML driven data analysis
2. Utilize the tools and techniques for collecting, storing, securing, retrieving, and analyzing
data of different modalities
Introduction to Probability, Bayes Theorem, Random Variable, Distribution Function and
Probability Density (Mass) Function, Linear algebra. (8 lectures)
Evaluating ML Models: Precision, recall, speciﬁcity, sensitivity, predictive value, ROC curve,
cross validation, Overﬁtting Underﬁtting, Bias and interpretability of ML models (4 lectures)
Unsupervised Learning, Feature Selection, Clustering, Missing data (6 Lectures)
Supervised Machine Learning Models: Regression Analysis, Bayes Classiﬁcation, Parameter
Estimation, Maximum Likelihood Estimator, k-nearest neighbor, Decision trees, Gradient
Descent, Neural Networks, Ensemble Learning (16 lectures)
Introduction to Deep learning: CNN, Autoencoder, RNN (8 Lectures)
1. Mitchell Tom (1997). Machine Learning, Tata McGraw-Hill
2. Wu, G., (2016), Machine Learning and Medical Imaging, Elsevier.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
Data Structures and Algorithms
The Instructor will:
1.   Provide background to understand various aspects of Graphics Processing Unit (GPU)
2.   Introduce parallel programming using GPUs.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Explain various concepts involving GPU Programming
2.   Implement programs of GPU
3.   Debug and proﬁle parallel programs.
Introduction: History, graphics processors, graphics processing units, GPGPUs. Clock
speeds, CPU / GPU comparisons, heterogeneity. Accelerators, parallel programming, CUDA /
OpenCL / OpenACC (2 lectures)
Hello World Computation: Kernels, launch parameters, thread hierarchy, warps/wavefronts,
thread blocks/workgroups, streaming multiprocessors, 1D / 2D / 3D thread mapping, device
properties, simple programs (8 lectures)
Support: Debugging GPU programs. Proﬁling, proﬁle tools, performance aspects (2 lectures)
Memory: Memory hierarchy, DRAM / global, local / shared, private/local, textures, constant
memory, Pointers, parameter passing, arrays and dynamic memory, multi-dimensional
arrays, Memory allocation, memory copying across devices, Programs with matrices,
performance evaluation with different memories (5 lectures)
Synchronization: Memory consistency. Barriers (local versus global), atomics, memory fence,
reduction. Programs for concurrent data structures such as worklists,
linked-lists, Synchronization across CPU and GPU (6 lectures)
Functions: Device functions, host functions, kernels, functors, Using libraries (such as
Thrust), developing libraries, (3 lectures)
Streams: Asynchronous processing, tasks, task-dependence, Overlapped data transfers,
default stream, synchronization with streams, Events, event-based-synchronization -
overlapping data transfer and kernel execution, pitfalls (6 lectures)
Advanced topics: Case studies, Dynamic Parallelism, Uniﬁed virtual memory, Multi-GPU
processing, Peer access, Heterogeneous processing (8 lectures)
1. Kirk,D. and Hwu,W., (2010), Programming Massively Parallel Processors: A Hands-on
Approach, Hwu; Morgan Kaufman
1. Cook,S., (2012), CUDA Programming: A Developer's Guide to Parallel Computing with GPUs,
Introduction to Parallel Programming,
Preparatory Course Material
700 - Level Elective Course
Prerequisite Algorithm Design and Analysis
B.Tech, M. Tech, Ph.D.
The Instructor will:
Introduce and address graph problems using algorithm design
principles. Discuss graph theoretic algorithms in real-world
To give the student further exposure to the design, analysis, and application of algorithms for
problems deﬁned on graphs.
Formulate and solve real-world problems using the mathematical foundations of graph
Introduction to graphs. (2 Lectures)
Max Flow Min Cut Theorem, Algorithms for min cut and max ﬂow, Maximum matching, Hall’s
theorem, algorithms for computing maximum matching in weighted and unweighted graphs.
Vertex and Edge Coloring of Graphs, Independent Set. (4 Lectures)
Interval graphs, Perfect elimination orders, Comparability graphs, Interval Graph
Recognition, Friends of Interval Graphs. (7 Lectures)
Trees and treewidth. (7 Lectures)
Planar Graphs, Problems in planar graphs, Maximum Cut. (8 Lectures)
Planarity Testing, Triangulated graphs, Friends of planar graphs, Hereditary properties. (8
A. BRANDSTÄDT, V.B. LE, J.P. SPINRAD (1999), Graph Classes: A Survey, SIAM Monographs
on Discrete Mathematics and Applications, SIAM.
T. NISHIZEKI, N. CHIBA (1988), Planar Graphs: Theory and Algorithms, North-Holland
M.C. GOLUMBIC (2004), Algorithmic Graph Theory and Perfect Graphs, Academic Press, 2nd
T. BIEDL, Lecture Notes of a Graduate Course, University of Waterloo.
700 - Level Elective Course
Graph Theory and Applications
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., Ph.D.
The Instructor will:
their applications in real-world scenarios.
Introduce various terminologies, concepts and algorithms related to graphs, and discuss
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Formulate and solve real-world problems using the mathematical foundations of graph
Preliminaries: Graphs, Isomorphism, Subgraphs, Matrix representations, Degree, Operations
on graphs, Degree sequences (3 lectures)
Connected graphs and shortest paths: Walks, Trails, Paths, Connected graphs, Distance,
Cut-vertices, Cut-edges, Blocks, Connectivity, Weighted graphs, Shortest path algorithms (4
Trees: Characterizations, Number of trees, Minimum spanning trees (3 lectures)
Special classes of graphs: Bipartite graphs, Line graphs, Chordal graphs (2 lectures)
Eulerian graphs: Characterization, Fleury’s algorithm, Chinese-postman-problem (2 lectures)
Hamilton graphs: Necessary conditions and suﬃcient conditions (3 lectures)
Independent sets, coverings, matchings: Basic equations, Matchings in bipartite graphs,
Perfect matchings, Greedy and approximation algorithms (6 lectures)
Vertex colorings: Chromatic number and cliques, Greedy coloring algorithm, Coloring of
chordal graphs, Brook’s theorem (2 lectures)
Edge colorings: Gupta-Vizing theorem, Class-1 graphs and Class-2 graphs, Equitable
edge-coloring (5 lectures)
Planar graphs: Basic concepts, Euler’s formula, Polyhedrons and planar graphs,
Characterizations, Planarity testing, 5-color-theorem (3 lectures)
Directed graphs: Out-degree,
Hamilton directed graphs (5 lectures)
Applications: Biology, Social Sciences, Engineering, Computer Science (4 lectures)
In-degree, Connectivity, Orientation, Eulerian directed graphs,
1. West,D.B., (2002), Introduction to Graph Theory, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall of India
2. Deo,N., (2003), Graph Theory: With Application to Engineering and Computer Science,
Prentice Hall of India
1. Research literature
Self Learning Material
1.   NPTEL: Graph Theory (for CSE), https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106108054/39
2.   NPTEL: Graph Theory (for Mathematics), https://nptel.ac.in/courses/111106050/
700 - Level Elective Course
Hardware Software Co-design
The Instructor will:
Give overview of the cooperative design of hardware and software components.
Provide the understanding of uniﬁcation of currently separate hardware and software paths
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Achieve system-level objectives by exploiting the synergism of hardware and software
through their concurrent design.
Understand the movement of functionality between hardware and software.
Introduction to Hardware-Software Co-design, Design process, Application domains, Design
technologies. (5 Lectures)
Data ﬂow modeling implementation in software and hardware, Analysis of control ﬂow and
data ﬂow, Finite state machine with datapath, Custom hardware, Microprogrammed
architecture, system on chip. (12 Lectures)
Codesign methodologies: Model representation, Hardware-software mapping - partitioning,
scheduling, and allocation, Software code optimization. (10 Lectures)
Hardware-software interfaces: Principles of hardware software communication, On-chip
buses, Memory- mapped interface, Coprocessor interface. (10 Lectures)
Codesign CAD tools: Ptolemy Project. (5 Lectures)
P.R. SCHAUMONT (2010), A Practical Introduction to Hardware/Software Codesign, Springer;
G. De MICHELI, M. SAMI (1996), Hardware/Software Co-Design, Springer.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech (All), M.Tech, Ph.D.
Data Structure and Algorithms
1. Develop knowledge about problems and challenges that health informatics addresses
2. To develop an understanding of different types of data exchange formats and standards
techniques for different purposes.
3. To equip the students with various possible applications of digital data analysis in
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply basic knowledge to the research and practice of health informatics
2. Demonstrate basic skills and knowledge in health informatics for application in future
3. Utilize the tools and techniques for collecting, storing, securing, retrieving, and
reporting health care data and information
Introduction: Overview, health data, information, and knowledge, electronic health records,
system architecture for EHRs, ambulatory EHR functions and interoperability, personal health
records and decision aids. [6 lectures]
Health Care Information Systems: Healthcare data standards - Overview, methods, protocols,
terminologies, and speciﬁcations for the collection, exchange, storage, and retrieval of
information associated with health care applications. [6 lectures]
Data Collection and Quality Assurance: Data collection, cleaning data, managing change,
Using Data for Care Delivery, Coordination, and Quality Improvement, Quality assurance,
Security, Privacy. [8 lectures]
Clinical Data: Introduction, medical digital data formats and exchange, medical image formats
such as DICOM in the context of health informatics. [4 lectures]
Informatics: Information retrieval, bioinformatics - usage of informatics in genomics and other
aspects of molecular biology, patient case history analytics, applications in public health,
ethical issue in health informatics. [8 lectures]
Medical Diagnostic Decision Support: probabilistic approaches, clinical scores, logical
approaches - expert system, inference engines, case studies. [6 Lectures]
Digital healthcare: Telemedicine, mobile for health, public health [4 lectures]
1. Hoyt, R. E., & Yoshihashi, A. K. (2014). Health informatics: practical guide for
healthcare and information technology professionals. Lulu. com
2. Hersh, W. R., & Hoyt, R. E. (2018). Health Informatics: Practical Guide Seventh Edition. Lulu.
1. Landais, P., Boudemaghe, T., Suehs, C., Dedet, G., Lebihan-Benjamin, C., Venot, A., ... &
Quantin, C. (2014). Medical Informatics, e-Health: Fundamentals and Applications.
2. Healthcare data standards, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK216088/
3. Data Collection and Quality Assurance, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK208601/
4. Computer-aided diagnosis medical image analysis techniques,
Health Informatics Specialization, Coursera Online,
700 - Level Elective Course
Course Title High-level Synthesis
Department CSE, EE
B.Tech, M.Tech, Ph.D
Prerequisite Basic knowledge of digital circuits
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
To provide an introduction to high-level synthesis of digital circuits and electronic
design automation. To explain the HLS design ﬂow: circuit, logic, RTL, algorithm,
The students are expected to have the ability in:
Design Digital Circuits, Logic synthesis, optimization and
technology mapping. Design Veriﬁcation
Use different tools like C-to-Silicon, AutoPilot from AutoESL, Synopsis for logic synthesis,
Introduction: Basic overview of the VLSI design ﬂow, design abstractions (2 Lectures)
Digital Sub-System Design: Logic Circuits, Adders, Multipliers, ALU (5 Lectures)
HDL language: System C (8 Lectures)
Synthesis: Scheduling, Allocation, Binding (3 Lectures)
RTL Synthesis, Retiming, FSM Encoding, Combinational logic optimization and technology
mapping (6 Lectures)
Veriﬁcation: Design vs veriﬁcation, Types of Veriﬁcation at each step of ASIC Design Flow
(functional/power/Gate Level Simulation (GLS)), UVM, Veriﬁcation planning and Designing a
test bench (7 Lectures)
Chip Architectures: Full Custom, Standard Cells and FPGA (4 Lectures)
Synthesis Tool: C-to-Silicon, AutoPilot from AutoESL (4 Lectures)
Overview of layout synthesis topics: Placement and routing. Chip Synthesis. (3 Lectures)
1. M. FINGEROFF (2010), High-level Synthesis Blue Book, Xlibris.
2. G. De MICHELI (2017), Synthesis and Optimization of Digital Circuits, McGraw-Hill.
3. S. KANG, Y. LEBLEBICI (2003), MOS Digital Integrated Circuits, Analysis and Design,
WCB- MCGrawHill, 3rd Edition.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
B.Tech, M. Tech, Ph.D.
PRML / Introduction to ML
Information retrieval covers the tasks of indexing, searching, and recalling data, particularly
text or other unstructured forms. It has an important role to play in a large number of
applications viz., digital libraries, oﬃce automation, internet and e-commerce. The aim of
the course is to study theoretical aspects as well as implementation issues of classical and
modern retrieval problems.
The students are expected to learn and gather expertise in:
1. The underlying technologies of modern information retrieval system
2. Developing new search engines with high search accuracy
Introduction to Information Retrieval: The nature of unstructured and semi-structured
text, Inverted index and Boolean queries. (2 Lectures)
Search Engine Architecture: Basic building blocks of a modern search engine system: web
text analysis techniques, Inverted index, Query processing, Search result interface, Semantic
search using Ontology (7 Lectures)
Retrieval Models: Boolean vector space, TFIDF, Okapi, Probabilistic language modeling, Latent
semantic indexing, Vector space scoring, The cosine measure, Eﬃciency considerations,
Document length normalization, Relevance feedback and query expansion, Rocchio,
Ontological models (8 Lectures)
Performance Evaluation: Evaluating search engines, User happiness, Precision,
Recall, F-measure, Creating Test collections: kappa measure, Interjudge agreement.
Text Categorization and Filtering: Introduction to text classiﬁcation, Naive Bayes model,
Spam ﬁltering, Vector space classiﬁcation using hyperplanes, Centroids, K-Nearest
Neighbors, Support vector machine classiﬁers, Kernel functions, Boosting. (6 Lectures)
Text Clustering: Clustering versus classiﬁcation, Partitioning methods, K-means
clustering, Gaussian mixture model, Hierarchical agglomerative clustering, Clustering
terms using documents. (6 Lectures)
Advanced Topics: Summarization, Topic detection and tracking, Personalization,
Question answering, Cross language information retrieval (3 Lectures)
Web Information Retrieval: Hypertext, web crawling, Search engines, Ranking, Link analysis,
PageRank, HITS. (3 Lectures)
Retrieving Structured Documents: XML retrieval, Semantic web (2 Lectures)
1. C.D. MANNING, P. RAGHAVAN, H. SCHUETZE (2008), Introduction to Information
Retrieval, Cambridge University Press.
2. B. CROFT, D. METZLER, T. STROHMAN (2010), Search Engines: Information Retrieval
in Practice, Pearson Education.
3. B. RICARDO, B. RIBEIRO-NETO (2011), Modern Information Retrieval, Addison-Wesley, 2nd
700 - Level Elective Course
Introduction to AR and VR
Computer Science and Engineering
B. Tech., M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1.   Discusses such issues, focusing upon the human element of AR and VR
2.   Explain the Hardware and software related issues related to AR and VR
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Explain perceptual concepts governing augmented reality and virtual reality
2.   Identify and solve the issues of various augmented reality and virtual reality frameworks
3.   Design immersive experience using AR and VR Software
Introduction: Deﬁnition of X-R (AR, VR, MR), modern experiences, historical perspective,
Hardware, sensors, displays, software, virtual world generator, game engines (6 Lectures)
Geometry of Visual World: Geometric modeling, transforming rigid bodies, yaw, pitch, roll,
axis-angle representation, quaternions, 3D rotation inverses and conversions, homogeneous
transforms, transforms to displays, look-at, and eye transform, canonical view and perspective
transform, viewport transforms (8 Lectures)
Light and Optics: Interpretation of light, reﬂection, optical systems (4 Lectures)
Visual Perception: Photoreceptors, Eye and Vision, Motion, Depth Perception, Frame rates and
displays (6 Lectures)
Tracking: Orientation, Tilt, Drift, Yaw, Lighthouse approach (4 Lectures)
Head Mounted Display: Optics, Inertial Measurement Units, Orientation Tracking with IMUs,
Panoramic Imaging and Cinematic VR, Audio (8 Lectures)
Frontiers: Touch, haptics,
interfaces (6 Lectures)
1. Shirley, M., (2016), Fundamentals of Computer Graphics, 4th Edition, CRC Press
2. LaValle, (2016), Virtual Reality, Cambridge University Press
3. Schmalstieg D, and Hollerer T. (2016). Augmented Reality: Principles & Practice,
Pearson Education India
1. Jerald,J., (2015), The VR Book: Human-Centered Design for Virtual Reality, Morgan &
2. Mather,G., (2009), Foundations of Sensation and Perception, 2nd Edition, Psychology
3. Shirley,P., Ashikhmin,M., Marschner,S. and Peters,A.K., Fundamentals of Computer
Graphics, 3rd Edition, CRC Press
4. Bowman,D.A., Kruijff,E., LaViola,J.J. and Poupyrev,I., (2014), 3D User Interfaces:
Theory and Practice, 2nd Edition, Addison Wesley Professional
Self Learning Material
1.   Steven M. LaValle, Video Lectures,
700 - Level Elective Course
Introduction to Blockchain
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, MTech, PhD.
Cryptography / Cryptography and
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
Explain how blockchain technology works
Integrate blockchain technology into the current business processes to make them secure
The students are expected to have the ability to:
Understand what and why of Blockchain
Explore major components of Blockchain and Identify a use case for a
Blockchain application Create their own Blockchain network application
Introduction to Blockchain: Digital Trust, Asset, Transactions, Distributed Ledger Technology,
Types of network, Components of blockchain (cryptography, ledgers, consensus, smart
contracts). (5 Lectures)
PKI and Cryptography: Private keys, Public keys, Hashing, Digital Signature. (6 Lectures)
Consensus: Byzantine Fault, Proof of Work, Proof of Stake. (6 Lectures)
Cryptocurrency: Bitcoin creation and economy, Limited Supply and Deﬂation, Hacks, Ethereum
concept and Ethereum classic. (10 Lectures)
Hyperledger Fabric: Hyperledger Architecture, Membership, Blockchain, Transaction,
Fabric, Features of Hyperledger, Fabric Demo. (8 Lectures)
Blockchain Applications: Building on the Blockchain, Ethereum Interaction - Smart Contract
and Token (Fungible, non-fungible), Languages, Blockchain-as-a-service. (6 Lectures)
A. BAHGA, V. MADISETTI (2017), Blockchain Applications: A Hands-On Approach, VPT.
Self Learning Material
1. M. SWAN (2015), Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy, O’Reilly Media.
2. R. WATTENHOFER (2016), The Science of the Blockchain, CreateSpace Independent
I. BASHIR (2017), Mastering blockchain, Packt Publishing Ltd.
4. K.E. LEVY, Book-smart, Not Street-smart: Blockchain-based Smart Contracts and the
Social Workings of Law, Engaging Science, Technology, and Society, vol. 3, pp. 1-15,
Preparatory Course Material
MIT Online Blockchain Course, Learn Blockchain Technology: https://getsmarter.mit.edu/
700 - Level Elective Course
Introduction to Wireless Ad hoc Networks
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, MTech, PhD
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
The course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the wide applicability of
Wireless Ad-Hoc networks and their associated design issues and challenges.
It also sheds light on protocol design, mainly at the MAC layer.
At the end of this course, students would be able to appreciate the mechanisms and
interventions required at different levels to make Wireless Ad-hoc networks work in practice.
They would be able to explain different MAC protocols and their issues.
Students would also be able to contrast transport layer design issues arising out of mobility,
with the conventional TCP.
Introduction to Wireless Ad-hoc Networks: Overview about Mobile ad-hoc networks (MANETs),
Vehicular Ad- hoc networks (VANETs), Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) and Wireless Mesh
Networks (WMNs). (2 Lectures)
Physical layer: Modulation techniques, Channel models, Case-study of 802.11a PHY. (3
Link Layer: Single-hop MAC protocols, multi-hop MAC protocols, Error correcting codes. (5
Network Layer: Mobile IP, Distributed wireless routing algorithms (AODV, DSDV, DSR, OLSR),
Routing metrics. (8 Lectures)
Transport Layer: TCP over wireless, Transport level mobility management, Multihop transport
protocols. (6 Lectures)
Introduction to 5G networks (3 Lectures)
Low Power Wide Area Networks (LPWAN) for IoT: LoraWAN, NB-IoT, SigFox. (9 Lectures)
Personal Area Networks: Bluetooth. (3 Lectures)
Future trends in wireless networks: 802.11ax, 802.11ay, mm-Wave WiFi. (3 Lectures)
Please note that the course material would not be taken from a single book or resource. It
would be a combination of textbook material, research papers and other sources.
W. STALLINGS (2009), Wireless Communications & Networks, Pearson Education India, 2nd
T.S. RAPPAPORT (2010), Wireless Communications: Principles and Practice, Prentice Hall, 2nd
C.S.R. MURTHY, B.S. MANOJ (2004), Ad hoc Wireless Networks: Architectures and Protocols,
G. AGGELOU (2004), Mobile ad hoc networks: from wireless LANs to 4G networks, McGraw-Hill
S. BASAGNI, M. CONTI, S. GIORDANO, I. STOJMENOVIC, (Eds.), Mobile Ad hoc Networking,
John Wiley, 2004.
A. GOLDSMITH (2005), Wireless Communications, Cambridge university press.
Recent relevant RFCs, Internet drafts, selected research papers from relevant venues:
Mobicom, MobiSys, SIGCOMM, Infocom, IEEE TMC, ACM MC2R.
S. MISHRA NPTEL, IIT Kharagpur: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105160/
Relevant research papers.
700 - Level Elective Course
Machine Learning in Epidemiology
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech (All), M.Tech, Ph.D.
Machine Learning / PRML/IML
Course focuses on advances in machine learning and its application to causal inference and prediction
via Targeted Learning, which allows the use of machine learning algorithms for prediction and estimating
so-called causal parameters, such as average treatment effects, optimal treatment regimes, etc.
On completion of the course the students will have:
1. Ability to apply machine learning algorithms to prediction problems and estimate and derive
inference for the resulting ﬁt.
2. Ability to use the ﬁts of machine learning algorithms to estimate causal effects using
simple substitution estimators.
3. Knowledge of How the general methodology applies to goals of Precision Medicine.
Introduction: Introduction to epidemiology, statistical methodologies in epidemiologic studies, curse of
dimensionality in epidemiology, Relation between ML and epidemiology, more on epidemiology. [4
Prediction of Observational Epidemiology: Clinical Decision Support, Disease Surveillance, Introduction to
Targeted Machine Learning. [4 Lectures]
Causal Inference: Understanding bias, Correlation vs. causality, Causal graph inference. [4 Lectures]
Super-Learning: Parametric Models, Data Adaptivity, Performance Measure on Independent Data,
Customizable Optimality criterion, Sequential super learning. [8 Lectures]
Target Update of Machine Learning: TMLE, HAL, HAL-TMLE, C-TMLE, TMLE with Clustering, On- line
super learning, On-line targeted learning for time series. [14 Lectures]
Case Studies in Epidemiology: Ebola, Corona etc. [4 Lectures]
Future Directions: Deep learning in clinical epidemiology, Recurrent unit neural networks to identify
individuals at risk. [4 Lectures]
1. Van der Laan & Rose (2018), Targeted Learning in Data Science Causal Inference for Complex
Longitudinal Studies, Springer
2. Van der Laan & Rose (2011), Targeted Learning in Causal Inference for Observational and
Experimental Data, Springer
1. Timothy L. Wiemken, Robert R. Kelley (2020), Machine Learning in Epidemiology and Health
Outcomes Research, Annual Review of Public Health, 41(1), 21-36
2. Goldstein, N. D., LeVasseur, M., & McClure, L. A. (2020). On the Convergence of Epidemiology,
Biostatistics, and Data Science. Harvard Data Science Review.
3. Char DS, Shah NH, Magnus D. (2018), Implementing machine learning in health care- Addressing
ethical challenges, New England Journal of Medicine; 378-981 (3).
4. Chiavegatto Filho ADP, Dos Santos HG, do Nascimento CF, Massa K, Kawachi I. (2018), Overachieving
municipalities in public health: A machine learning approach, Epidemiology; 29-836- 40.
6. Other relevant articles
700 - Level Elective Course
Prerequisite Machine Learning / PRML
Machine Learning with Big Data
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1. Provide an understanding of the role of big data in the real-world scenarios
2. Provide technical details about various algorithms and software/hardware tools/platforms
related to big data
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Develop an understanding of big data in the modern context, and independently work on
problems relating to big-data
2. Design and program eﬃcient algorithms for big data from the perspective of a project
Introduction: What is big data, Unreasonable effectiveness of data (1 lecture)
Streaming algorithms: Streaming Naive Bayes, Stream and sort (2 lectures)
Platforms for learning from big data: MapReduce, New Software Stack, Large Scale File System
Organization (5 lectures)
Nearest Neighbour Search, Jaccardi Similarity of Sets, Similarity of Documents, Locality Sensitive
Hashing, The Stream Data Model (4 lectures)
Randomized methods: Clustering, Hashing, Sketching, Scalable stochastic gradient descent (3 lectures)
Frequent Itemsets: The Market Basket Model, A-Priori Algorithm, Handling larger datasets in Main
Memory, Limited-Pass Algorithms, Counting Frequent Items in a Stream (6 lectures)
Parameter Servers: Introduction, Abstraction, Parameter Cache Synchronization, Asynchronous execution,
Model Parallel Examples (3 lectures)
Graph-based methods (6 lectures)
Page Rank, Topic Sensitive Page Rank, Approaches to Page Rank iteration, Link Spam, Semi-supervised
learning, Scalable link analysis, Models for Recommendation Systems, Social Networks as Graphs (9
Large-scale Machine Learning with CPUs and GPUs (3 lectures)
1. Leskovec,J., Rajaraman,A., Ullman,J., (2014), Mining of Massive Datasets, 2nd Edition, Cambridge
2. Bekkerman,R., Bilenko,M., Langford,J., (2011), Scaling Up Machine Learning, Cambridge University
1.     Research literature
Self Learning Material
1. Department of Machine Learning, Carnegie Mellon University, Machine Learning with Large Datasets
2.     Department of Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley, Scalable Machine Learning
3.     ETH Zurich, Data Mining: Machine Learning from Large Datasets
700 - Level Elective Course
Medical Image Analysis
Department CSE, AI&DS, EE
BTech, MTech, Ph.D.
Prerequisite Digital Image Processing / Computer Vision, Machine
The Instructor will provide an in-depth understanding of classical and machine learning based
techniques for medical image analysis.
The students will have ability to:
2. apply the learned techniques for novel disease diagnosis and prognosis.
interpret and analyse the images in a quantitative way.
Classical Approaches: [1-0-0]
Introduction to image processing and medical imaging modalities, denoising and enhancement [4
Lectures] Tissue and Cell Segmentation: clustering, active contours and level sets based approaches [5
Lectures] Medical Image alignment: rigid and deformable registration [5 Lectures]
Machine Learning and Deep Learning Approaches: [2-0-0]
Fundus Image analysis, Retinal Vessel Segmentation [4 Lectures]
MRI image analysis and segmentation, 3D brain reconstruction from and MRI slices and analysis [5
Microscopic image analysis and interpretation [5 Lectures]
Ultrasonography image analysis [4 Lectures]
X-Ray and CT image segmentation, diagnosis and prognosis of various diseases [5 Lectures]
Correlation between different medical imaging modalities and conversions, augmenting clinical
measurements with medical imaging modalities for diseases diagnosis and prognosis [5 Lectures]
1. Prince, J. L., & Links, J. M. (2006). Medical imaging signals and systems. Upper Saddle River, NJ:
Pearson Prentice Hall.
2. Suetens, P. (2017). Fundamentals of medical imaging. Cambridge university press.
Medical Image Processing by Prof. Jeff Orchard at University of Waterloo:
700 - Level Elective Course
Mobile and Pervasive Computing
Computer Science and Engineering
B. Tech and M. Tech
Structure (L-T-P [C])
1. Explain necessary concepts to understand challenges in developing applications for mobile devices,
when contrasted with that of a general-purpose computer.
2. Introduce mechanisms employed by different cellular technologies, particularly 5G, and contrast them
with each other.
At the end of this course, students would be able to:
1. Describe the working principles of various cellular technologies, as well as appreciate the associated
2. Compare/contrast various aspects of Mobile and Pervasive Computing, viz. localization, sensing,
security and privacy concerns, application development, etc.
3. Implement the theoretical concepts into practical scenarios..
Overview of Wireless Systems: Infrastructure-based vs Ad-hoc, Wireless LANs, Cellular systems, Sensor
networks, Bluetooth, WiFi, WiMAX. (3 Lectures)
Medium Access: Link Adaptation, Routing Protocols. (4 Lectures)
Mobility and Handoff Management: Link layer mobility mechanisms (location management protocols),
Network layer mobility mechanisms (Macro and Micro mobility protocols), Handoff management protocols.
Cellular Networks: LTE and 5G overview, 5G Architecture, RAN and dynamic CRAN, Mobility management
and Network slicing in 5G. (11 Lectures)
Pervasive Computing: Principles, Characteristics, Pervasive devices, Smart sensors and actuators, Context
communication and access services. (4 lectures)
Context Aware Sensor Networks: Open protocols (SDP, Jini, SLP, UPnP), SyncML framework, Context aware
mobile services, Context aware security. (4 lectures)
Energy Eﬃciency, Localization (GPS/WiFi/GSM), Security (4 Lectures)
Recent Advances in Wearable devices (3 Lectures)
Body Area Networks (BAN) (3 Lectures)
1. I. STOJMENOVIC (2002), Handbook of Wireless Networks and Mobile and Pervasive Computing, Wiley.
2. S. LOKE (2006), Context-aware Pervasive Systems: Architectures for a New Breed of Applications,
3. A. OSSEIRAN, J.F. MONSERRAT, P. MARSCH, (Eds.), 5G Mobile and Wireless Communications
Technology, Cambridge University Press, 2016.
1. R. KAMAL (2008), Mobile and Pervasive Computing, Oxford University Press, 3rd Edition.
2. L. MERK, M. NICLOUS (2006), Principles of Mobile and Pervasive Computing, Dreamtech Press,
3. G. AGGELOU (2004), Mobile Ad hoc Networks: From Wireless LANs to 4G Networks, McGraw-Hill
1. J.J. DRAKE, Z. LANIER, C. MULLINER, P.O. FORA, S.A. RIDLEY, G. WICHERSKI (2014), Android
Hacker's Handbook, John Wiley, 1st Edition.
2. P. SINGH, NPTEL, IIIT Delhi: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106106147/
3. Relevant research papers from MobiSys, Sensys, MC2R, MobiCom and UbiComp.
700 - Level Elective Course
Pre-requisites Computer Networks, Introduction to Wireless Ad
5G Mobile Networks
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech, PhD
The course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the forthcoming 5G technology, and
its ability to transform the world for the better.
Students would be able to appreciate the increasing role that SDNs play in 5G systems and beyond.
4G LTE networks: Introduction, overview and architecture. (4 Lectures)
From 4G to 5G : Why, When and How? (1 Lecture)
5G overview: Understanding 5GPP & NGMN, 5G architecture and design objective, 5G spectrum
requirements, SDN in the 5G context. (6 Lectures)
5G Core: 5G RAN & Dynamic CRAN, Virtual Network Functions in the 5G core, 5G NR Logical Architecture,
5G Protocol Stack. (13 Lectures)
5G signalling: Millimeter wave propagation, Distributed massive MIMO principle, 5G Ultra dense cellular
networks, 5G Coordinated Multi-Point. (8 Lectures)
5G Mobile Edge computing & Fog computing (2 Lectures)
5G applications: Healthcare, Transportation, Smart cities, AR, VR. (2 Lectures)
5G vs mm-wave Wiﬁ: A comparison. (2 Lectures)
India’s 5G policy and vision (1 Lecture)
The 6G vision (1 Lecture)
Paper discussions (2 Lectures)
Please note that the course material would not be based on a single book or resource. It would be a
combination of textbook material, research papers and other sources from the Internet.
A. OSSEIRAN, J.F. MONSERRAT, P. MARSCH (Eds.) (2016), 5G Mobile and Wireless
Communications Technology, Cambridge University Press.
A. ELNASHAR, M.A. EL-SAIDNY, M. SHERIF (2014), Design, Deployment and Performance of
4G-LTE Networks: A Practical Approach, John Wiley & Sons.
Relevant research papers.
700 - Level Elective Course
Natural Language Understanding
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
The Instructor will:
1. To provide insights into fundamental concepts and algorithms related to Natural Language
Impart working expertise by introducing practical problems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.   Formulate natural language understanding tasks
2.   Design and implement basic applications of NLU
Traditional NLU: Introduction to NLU, Motivation, Morphology, Parts-of-Speech, Language Models, Word
Sense Disambiguation, Anaphora Resolution, Basics of Supervised and Semi-supervised Learning for NLU,
Hidden Markov Models for language modeling, EM Algorithm, Structured Prediction, Dependency Parsing,
Topic Models, Semantic Parsing, Sentiment analysis. (14 Lectures)
Deep Learning for NLU:
Intro to Neural NLU, Word Vector representations, Neural Networks and
backpropagation -- for named entity recognition, Practical tips: gradient checks, overﬁtting, regularization,
activation functions, Recurrent neural networks -- for language modeling and other tasks, GRUs and LSTMs
-- for machine translation, Recursive neural networks -- for parsing, Convolutional neural networks -- for
sentence classiﬁcation, Question answering and dialogue system, Graph Neural Network for NLU, Natural
Language Generation, Analysis and Interpretability of Neural NLU. (22 Lectures)
Knowledge Graphs: Knowledge graph embedding techniques, Inference on knowledge graphs. (6 Lectures)
1. C. MANNING, H. SCHÜTZE (1999), Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing, MIT
2. D. JURAFSKY, J.H. MARTIN, Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural
Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition (3rd Edition Draft),
1. E. BENDER (2013), Linguistic Fundamentals for NLP, Morgan Claypool Publishers..
2. J. ALLEN (1995), Natural Language Understanding, Pearson Education, 1995.
3. Research Literature.
1. http://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224n/index.html#schedule (Deep learning for NLP)
700 - Level Elective Course
Neuromorphic Computing and Design
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
Artiﬁcial Intelligence, PRML/Introduction to ML
The Instructor will:
1. Provide information about neuroscientiﬁc progress towards reverse-engineering the brain
2. Provide essentials on key hardware building blocks, system level VLSI design and practical
real-world applications of neuromorphic Systems
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. View neuromorphic computing as a computer architecture research problem
2. Perform software and hardware implementation of basic biological neural circuits
CSL7xx1 Introduction to Neuromorphic Engineering 1-0-0 [1]
Introduction to neuromorphic engineering, neuroanatomy of human brain,
signaling and operation of biological neurons, neuron models - LIF, IF, HH, synapses and plasticity
rules, spike-time-dependent plasticity (STDP), biological neural circuits, non-von Neumann computing
approach, learning rules, retina, cochlea (14 lectures)
CSL7xx2 Neuromorphic Computing 1-0-0 [1]
Neuromorphic Computing: Spiking Neural Networks (SNN), Advanced Nanodevices for Neuron
Implementation, Synaptic emulation - non-volatile memory (NVM), Flash, RRAM, memristors, CNT,
Case study on Intel’s Loihi neuromorphic chip (14 lectures)
CSL7xx3 Neuromorphic Hardware Implementation 1-0-0 [1]
Hardware Implementation: Electronic synapses, Digital/Analog neuromorphic VLSI, Hardware
Implementation of Neuron circuits, Hardware Implementation of Synaptic and Learning circuits,
Synaptic programming methodology optimization  (14 lectures)
1. Liu, S.C., (2002), Analog VLSI: Circuits and Principles, MIT Press.
2.    Kozma, R., (2012), Advances in Neuromorphic Memristor Science, Springer.
3. Kandel, E., (2012), Principles of neural science, McGraw Hill.
700 - Level Elective Course
B.Tech, M. Tech, Ph.D.
Algorithm Design and Analysis
The Instructor will:
The objective of the course is to introduce a technique to deal with NP-hard problems
Learn a new set of techniques to cope with NP-hard problems. Identify novel and signiﬁcant open
research questions in the ﬁeld.
Introduction to Parameterized Complexity. (1 Lecture)
Basic Techniques to design parameterized algorithms: Bounded Search Tree, Iterative Compression,
Randomized method. (16 Lectures)
kernelization: Greedy Based Kernels, Matching Based Kernels, Sunﬂower Lemma, Crown Decomposition,
Expansion Lemma. (16 Lectures)
Parameterized Intractability. (9 Lectures)
1. M. CYGAN, F. FOMIN, L. KOWALIK, D. LOKSHTANOV, D. MARX, M. PILIPCZUK, M. PILIPCZUK, S.
SAURABH (2015), Parameterized Algorithms, Springer.
2. F. FOMIN, D. LOKSHTANOV, S. SAURABH, M. ZEHAVI (2019), Kernelization: Theory of Parameterized
Preprocessing, Cambridge University Press.
700 - Level Elective Course
Principles of Biological Vision and Applications
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
The instructor will provide:
An account of various biological perceptions and cognitive processes.
Computational models for such processes
Examples of machine vision applications with such computational models.
On completion of the course, the students are expected to have the ability to:
Appreciate the principles of biological perception and cognition.
Apply computational models for perception and cognition processes of biological vision in various
machine vision tasks.
(Fractal 1 (14 Lectures))
Introduction: Perception, reasoning and cognition; roles of knowledge, memory and learning. (2
Eye and early vision: Lateral Inhibition; convolution; detection of oriented edges; color, texture and
motion perceptions; peripheral vision. (4 Lectures)
Reasoning systems: Deductive, abductive and inductive reasoning; statistical property of nature;
Bayesian framework of reasoning; Bayesian networks; parameter estimation; on complexity of models
and prior probabilities; information integration; hierarchical Bayesian models and inductive
generalization. (8 Lectures)
(Fractal 2 (14 lectures))
Late Vision: Depth perception; perceptual grouping; foreground-background separation; multi-stability;
models for object recognition; hierarchical models; visual quality and aesthetics. (5 Lectures)
Visual attention: cognitive, information-theoretic, Bayesian, context based and object-based attention
models; evaluation of attention models. (6 Lectures)
Introduction to cognitive architectures: Active vision; perceive-interpret-act cycles; modeling cognition
processes; roles of short-term and long-term memory; review of STAR architecture. (3 Lectures)
(Fractal 3 (14 lectures))
Knowledge Representation and learning: Role of knowledge in visual
knowledge and learning; short-term and long-term memory; structured and unstructured knowledge;
semantic networks; frame-based representation; symbol grounding problem; perceptual knowledge;
uniﬁed framework for conceptual and perceptual knowledge; learning in knowledge-based systems. (5
Neural networks for vision: Introduction to neural network; CNN for image classiﬁcation and object
detection; knowledge representation in neural networks; RNN and life-long learning; LSTM; recurrent
attention models; reinforcement learning, meta-learning and multi-task learning; knowledge-infused
learning; graph networks. (6 Lectures)
Applications in machine vision tasks: Computational photography; digital heritage; social robots; smart
content delivery and re-purposing. (3 Lectures)
H. GHOSH (In Press – expected Jun/Jul 2020), Computational Models for Cognitive Vision,, Wiley-IEEE
Research literature to be announced in class.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M. Tech, Ph.D.
Probability, Statistics and Stochastic Processes
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3-0-0 [3]
This course presents basic concepts in the design and analysis of randomized algorithms.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand several of the main thrusts of work in randomized algorithms.
2. Read current research publications in the area.
3. Use randomized algorithm techniques for real world problems.
Tools and Techniques: Basic probability theory; Randomized complexity classes; Game-theoretic
techniques; Markov, Chebyshev, and moment inequalities; Limited independence; Tail inequalities and the
Chernoff bound; Conditional expectation; The probabilistic method; Markov chains and random walks;
Algebraic techniques; Probability ampliﬁcation and derandomization. (22 Lectures)
Applications: Sorting and searching; Data structures; Combinatorial optimization and graph algorithms;
Geometric algorithms and linear programming; Approximation and counting problems; Parallel and
distributed algorithms; Online algorithms. (20 Lectures)
R. MOTWANI, P. RAGHAVAN (1995), Randomized Algorithms, Cambridge University Press, 1st Edition.
M. MITZENMACHER, E. UPFAL (2017), Probability and Computing: Randomized Algorithms and
Probabilistic Analysis, Cambridge University Press, 2nd Edition.
W. FELLER (2008), An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its Applications, Volumes I and II, John Wiley,
P. BILLINGSLEY (2012), Probability and Measure, John Wiley.
700 - Level Elective Course
Resource Constrained AI
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech., PhD
PRML / Introduction to Machine Learning
The Instructor will:
1. Explain the challenges of implementing AI and machine learning algorithms on devices with
memory and power constraints
2.  Provide methods to reduce computational complexity of AI techniques
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the constraints of implementing AI algorithms on limited memory devices
2. Design and develop techniques to reduce inference time memory footprint of machine learning
Introduction: Overview and motivation, challenges of resource constrained AI, why AI on edge (4
Edge Computing: Edge devices and their limitations, Edge and fog computing, Distributed computing,
communication links, communication overhead in IoT devices (8 lectures)
Monitoring: Prediction accuracy, numeric accuracy, precision, memory footprints, computational
complexity of AI models  (4 lectures)
Memory Optimization of Models: KiloByte-size models, ﬂoating-point v/s ﬁxed-point, SeeDot (8
Edge AI: Resource-eﬃcient kNN, SVM and deep learning models, Toeplitz matrix, Bonsai, ProtoNN,
EMI-RNN, FastRNN, FastGRNN (10 lectures)
Current Trends and Future: Hardware accelerators for Edge AI, Vision Processing Unit (VPU),
Streaming Hybrid Architecture Vector Engine (SHAVE), Intel’s Movidius Neural Compute Stick (NCS),
Open Neural Network Exchange (ONNX), Future trends (10 lectures)
Implementation of Bonsai, CNN training using SeeDot language etc.
1. Alippi, C., (2014), Intelligence for Embedded Systems: A Methodological Approach, Springer.
Preparatory Course Material
1. EdgeML by Microsoft, https://github.com/Microsoft/EdgeML/#edge-machine-learning
2. NCSDK by Intel https://github.com/movidius/ncsdk
700 - Level Elective Course
Security and Its Applications
Computer Science and Engineering
Structure (L-T-P [C])
1. Provide the fundamental principles of access control models and techniques, authentication and
secure system design
Introduce a strong understanding of different cryptographic protocols and techniques and be
able to use them
3. Provide methods for authentication, access control, intrusion detection and prevention
1. Understand cryptography and network security concepts and application
Identify and investigate network security threat
3. Analyze and design network security protocols
Introduction to Cyber Security: Internet governance – Challenges and constraints, Cyber threats. (2
Cyber Security Vulnerabilities and Cyber Security Safeguards: Cyber security, Vulnerabilities, safeguards,
Access control, Authentication, Biometrics, Deception, Denial of Service Filters, Ethical hacking, Firewalls,
Response, Scanning, Security policy, Threat management. (8 Lectures)
Cryptography: Shannon’s Approach to Cryptography: Measures of security, Perfect secrecy, Deﬁnition of
entropy, One-time pad, Symmetric Key Cryptography, Cryptographic Hash Functions, Authentication, Public
Key Cryptosystems, Key Distribution and Key Agreement Protocols( 4 Lectures )
Web Security: Basic security for HTTP applications and services, Basic security for SOAP services, Identity
management and Web services, Authorization patterns, Security considerations, challenges. (4 Lectures)
Network Security: TCP/IP threats, The IPSEC protocol, The SSL and TLS protocols, Firewalls and Virtual
Private Networks (VPNs), Electronic mail security, Worms, DDoS attacks, BGB and security considerations
Intrusion Detection and Prevention: Intrusion detection and Prevention techniques, Anti-malware software,
Security information management, Network session analysis, System integrity validation. (4 Lectures)
Cyber-physical security: IoT security, sensor actuator network security (4 lectures)
Block Chain: Introduction to Blockchain, Blockchain Architecture and Design, Consensus (Byzantine Fault,
Proof of Work, Proof of Stake), Permissioned Blockchains, Components of blockchain (5 lectures)
1. Stallings, W. (2017). Cryptography and network security, 7/E. Pearson Education India
2. Douglas R. Stinson, Maura B. Paterson (2018). Cryptography: theory and practice. 4/E Chapman
1. Mao, W. (2004). Modern cryptography: theory and practice. Pearson Education India
2. Pﬂeeger, C. P., & Pﬂeeger, S. L. (2018). Security in computing. 5/E, Prentice Hall Professional
4. Goldreich, O. (2009). Foundations of cryptography: volume 2, basic applications. Cambridge
5. Forouzan, B. A. (2015). Cryptography & network security. 3/E, McGraw-Hill, Inc.
1. Network and Computer Security - MIT OpenCourseWare
2. Cryptography I, Coursera, Stanford University, https://www.coursera.org/learn/crypto
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech, Ph.D
Data Structure and Algorithms
The Instructor will:
2. Explain how to design social computing systems to be effective and responsible.
Introduce the fundamental and current challenges in social computing.
The students will have the ability to:
1. Explore social computing systems, get experience with social data analyses and focus on
design, and evaluation of a social software as their ﬁnal project for the course.
2. Engage in the creation of new computationally-mediated social environments.
Introduction and overview Social Software: Introduction, Different types of social software like blogging,
microblogging, Q&A, Forum, Wiki etc. [3 Lectures]
Social information processing : Tagging, Social Navigation, Social Search, Social Bots [4 Lectures]
Group collaboration: Wikis and Wikipedia, Computer supported collaboration tools, Content sharing,
Open source software development [6 Lectures]
Recommender systems : Content based, collaborative ﬁltering, challenges of social information
processing [5 Lectures]
Social data analysis : Visualization, Sense-making, APIs, Facebook, Wikipedia, Twitter [6 Lectures]
Social capital : Deﬁnitions and measures, Social capital and social networks, Role of online
communities on social capital [6 Lectures]
Challenges of online communities: Dealing with newcomers, under-contribution problem Encouraging
contributions to online communities, Strategies supported by social science theories [8 Lectures]
Social computing, cities, and society: Impact on physical and psychological well-being, Connection to
real world, Equality of participation [4 Lectures]
Becker, Howard S. Writing for social scientists: How to start and ﬁnish your thesis, book, or
article. University of Chicago Press, 2008.
1. Bail et al (2018). Exposure to opposing views on social media can increase political
polarization. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 115(37), 9216-9221.
2. Dubois, E., & Blank, G. (2018). The echo chamber is overstated: the moderating effect of political
interest and diverse media. Information, Communication & Society, 21(5), 729-745.
3. Salganik, M. J., & Watts, D. J. (2009). Web-based experiments for the study of collective social
dynamics in cultural markets. Topics in Cognitive Science, 1(3), 439-468.
Social Computing, IIT Kharagpur, http://cse.iitkgp.ac.in/~pawang/courses/SC16.html
700 - Level Elective Course
Social Network Analysis
Computer Science and Engineering
B. Tech.,M.Tech., Ph.D.
Introduce the social networks and the research areas therein.
The Instructor will:
2. Provide with the mathematical foundation required for social network analysis
3. Cover various concepts, terminologies and algorithms related to social network analysis
4. Conduct tutorial sessions to use NetworkX library in Python for network analysis
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the applications related to social networks
2. Write program with social network datasets in Python
3. Formulate real-world problems with any relational data set resembling social networks
Incidence Matrix, Distance,
Introduction: Adjacency Matrix, Paths, Connectivity,
Introduction and Different Types of Networks (1 Lecture)
Breadth-First-Search, Directed Graph (1 Lecture)
Introduction to Python and NetworkX (1 Lecture)
Network Measures, Centrality, Core, Cliques and Clan, Strong and Weak Ties, Homophily, Structural
Balance, Components (4 Lectures)
Network Data Sets and Structural Analysis in Python+NetworkX+Pandas (2 Lectures)
Network Models: Random Networks, Scale Free Networks, The Barabási-Albert Model, Fuzzy-Granular
Social Network (4 Lectures)
Generate Synthetic Networks, Using Network Models in Python+NetworkX (2 Lectures)
Game Theory Introduction, Modeling Network Traﬃc using Games (3 Lectures)
Information Cascades, Small-World Phenomenon, Epidemics (4 Lectures)
Implementing Information Diffusion Algorithms in Python+NetworkX (2 Lectures)
Community Detection (3 Lectures)
Implementing Community Detection Algorithms in Python+NetworkX (2 Lectures)
Link Prediction (2 Lectures)
Implementing Link Prediction Algorithms in Python+NetworkX (2 Lectures)
Evolving Network and Temporal Networks (2 Lectures)
Working with Temporal Network Data (2 Lectures)
Connected Caveman Problem, Link Analysis and Web Search (2 Lectures)
Implementing PageRank algorithm in Python+NetworkX (1)
Network Data Science State-of-the-art (2 Lectures)
1. Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a Highly Connected World, by David Easley and
Jon Kleinberg, (Cambridge University Press - Sep 2010) -- Pre-publication draft available online.
2. Network Science, by Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, (Cambridge University Press - August 2016) -- freely
available under the Creative Commons licence.
3. Networks, by Mark Newman, (Oxford University Press, 2nd-edition - Sep 2018)
1. Complex and Adaptive Dynamical Systems, by Claudius Gros, (Springer, 4th Edition - 2015).
2. The Structure of Complex Networks Theory and Applications, by Ernesto Estrada, (Oxford University
3. Exploratory Social Network Analysis with Pajek, by Wouter de Nooy, Andrej Mrvar, and Vladimir
Batagelj, (Cambridge University Press, 3rd Edition - July 2018)
700 - Level Elective Course
Self Learning Material
700 - Level Elective Course
Soft Computing Techniques
Computer Science and Engineering, AI&DS
B.Tech, M.Tech., Ph.D.
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Introduction of different soft computing techniques, their integration and applications.
Students are expected to have the ability to:
2. Understand soft computing approaches in problem solving
3. Formulate real-world methodologies to data mining using soft computing tools
Identify and describe soft computing techniques
Introduction to Soft Computing: Difference between soft and hard computing, Fuzzy Computing,
Neural Computing, Genetic Algorithms, Associative Memory, Adaptive Resonance Theory,
Applications (4 Lectures)
Fuzzy Sets and Fuzzy Systems: Membership functions, Fuzzy operations, Fuzzy relations, Fuzzy
proposition, Fuzzy implication, Fuzziﬁcation, Fuzzy inference, Fuzzy rule based systems,
Defuzziﬁcation (7 Lectures)
Genetic Algorithm: Representation, Fitness function, Population, Operators – Selection, Mutation,
Crossover, Others, Multi-objective optimization problems (8 Lectures)
Metaheuristic and Swarm Intelligence: Ant colony optimization, Bee colony optimization, Particle
swarm optimization, Cuckoo search algorithm and others (6 Lectures)
Rough Sets, Knowledge representations, Rough decision making and data mining techniques,
Granular Computing (5 Lectures)
Hybrid Systems: Neuro-fuzzy systems, Rough-neural computing, Fuzzy logic and Genetic Algorithm,
GA based back propagation networks, Fuzzy associative memories, Hybrid systems using fuzzy and
rough sets (9 Lectures)
Big Data Challenges and Soft Computing Opportunity: Uncertainties in Big Data Inputs, Uncertainties
in Big Data Decisions (3 Lectures)
1. S.N. SIVANANDAM, S.N. DEEPA (2018), Principles of Soft Computing, Wiley India, 2018, 3rd
2. F.O. KARRAY, C. De SILVA (2004), Soft Computing and Intelligent Systems Design: Theory, Tools
and Applications, Pearson Education.
3. Z. PAWLAK (1991), Rough Sets: Theoretical Aspects of Reasoning about Data, Springer
Self Learning Material
1. Computer Science and Engineering - NOC: Introduction to Soft Computing:
2. Soft Computing — IT60108: http://cse.iitkgp.ac.in/~dsamanta/courses/sca/index.html.
3. Soft Computing: http://www.myreaders.info/html/soft_computing.html.
700 - Level Elective Course
Software Deﬁned Networks
Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical
Pre-requisites Computer Networks
Structure (L-T-P-C) 2-0-0
The course is intended to provide students with an understanding of the basics of SDNs.
The course would enable students to look forward to SDN applications such as in datacenters and 5G
Networking basics: Switching, Addressing, Routing (2 lecture)
Switching Architecture: Data, control and management planes, hardware lookup, forwarding rules,
dynamic forwarding tables, autonomous switches and routers (4 lectures)
SDN Architectures: Plane Separation, Simple Device and Centralized Control, Network Automation
and Virtualization, Openness SDN Controllers, SDN Applications, Northbound and Southbound APIs (5
lectures) OpenFlow: Switch-Controller Interaction, Flow Table, Packet Matching, Actions and Packet
Forwarding, Extensions and Limitations (3 lectures)
Network Function Virtualization: SDN vs. NFV, OPNFV, Inline Network Functions, Service Creation and
Chaining, NFV Orchestration (5 lectures)
Emerging SDN Models: Protocol Models, Controller Models, Application Models, SDN in Datacenters:
Multitenancy, Failure Recovery, SDN in Internet eXchange Points (IXPs) (4 lectures)
Data Center Networking in the context of SDN (5 lectures)
Please note that the course material would not be based on a single book or resource. It would be a
combination of textbook material, research papers and other sources from the Internet.
P. GORANSSON, C. BLACK, T. CULVER (2016), Software Deﬁned Networks: A Comprehensive
Approach. Morgan Kaufmann.
K. GRAY, T.D. NADEAU (2016), Network Function Virtualization, Morgan Kaufmann.
Relevant research papers.
700 - Level Elective Course
Software Testing and Quality Assurance
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech, Ph.D.
Structure (L-T-P [C])
The course provides an introduction to the software engineering testing process, describes the quality
assurance process and its role in software engineering.
The student will be able to work with various testing techniques, methods and tools.
The student will be able to demonstrate proﬁciency in managing an industry scale software project to
Students will be able to describe the state of the art validation and veriﬁcation techniques.
Overview and Basics: Software quality, Quality assurance and its context, Quality Engineering. (6
Software Testing: Concepts, Issues, and Techniques, Testing process, Testing levels such as unit,
module, subsystem, system; Automatic and Manual techniques for generating and validating test data,
Static vs dynamic analysis, Functional testing, Web application testing, Reliability assessment. (20
Quality Assurance beyond testing: Defect prevention and Process improvement, Software inspection,
Formal veriﬁcation, Fault tolerance and Failure containment, Comparing quality assurance techniques
and activities. (8 Lectures)
Quantiﬁable Quality Improvement: Feedback loop and activities for Quantiﬁable quality improvement,
Quality model and measurements, Defect classiﬁcation and analysis, Risk identiﬁcation, Reliability
engineering. (8 Lectures)
J. TIAN (2005), Software Quality Engineering: Testing, Quality Assurance and Quantiﬁable Improvement,
P. AMMANN, J. OFFUTT (2016), Introduction to Software Testing, Cambridge University Press, 2nd
700 - Level Elective Course
CSE / EE
B.Tech CSE, AI&DS
Structure (L-T-P-C) 3-0-0 [3]
1. To provide insights into fundamental concepts and algorithms related to speech processing and
2. Impart working expertise by introducing practical problems.
Students will have the ability to:
1. Build a speech recognition system
2. Design and implement basic speech based application
Introduction to Speech processing: Digitization and Recording of speech signal, Review of Digital
Signal Processing Concepts, Human Speech production, Acoustic Phonetics and Articulatory Phonetics,
Different categories speech sounds and Location of sounds in the acoustic waveform and
spectrograms. (14 Lectures)
Speech recognition: Analysis and Synthesis of Pole-Zero Speech Models, Short-Time Fourier
Transform, Analysis:- FT view and Filtering view, Synthesis:-Filter bank summation (FBS) Method and
OLA Method, Features Extraction, Extraction of Fundamental frequency, Speech Enhancement,
Clustering and Gaussian Mixture models, Speaker Recognition.(14 Lectures)
Speech based applications: HMM and Neural models for speech recognition, Speech generation,
Question answering, Dialogue systems, Other Speech based Applications.(14 Lectures)
1. T.F. QUATIERI (2002), Discrete-Time Speech Signal Processing, Prentice-Hall, New Jersey.
2. D. JURAFSKY, J.H. MARTIN, Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural
Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition (3rd Edition Draft),
1. Y. GOLDBERG (2016), A Primer on Neural Network Models for Natural Language Processing,
Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research.
2. I. GOODFELLOW, Y. BENGIO, A. COURVILLE (2016), Deep Learning, The MIT Press, 1st Edition.
3. S.K. PATRA (2011), Digital Signal Processing: A Computer-Based Approach, McGraw-Hill, 4th Edition.
700 - Level Elective Course
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech (All), M.Tech
PRML / Introduction to Machine Learning
The Instructor will:
Describe ways to leverage networking, sensing, and computational strategies to help address
sustainability issues related to biodiversity, climate, environment, urban design, transportation, buildings
Draw from professional experiences to ground all topics and discussions in “real world” examples.
The students will have the ability to:
Gain an understanding of how data and computation can be used to identify root causes of
sustainability challenges, create targeted strategies to address them, engage stakeholders, and track
and communicate progress.
Develop skills to design metrics and solutions for evaluation of progress towards sustainability goals.
Comprehend the power and shortcomings of data in communicating complex sustainability issues.
Introduction, SDG goals, & Sustainability metrics: Humanity and the environment, Sustainability,
Dimensions of sustainable design, Sustainability metrics. [3 Lectures]
Climate: Computational techniques for weather predictions & models of climate variance. [5 Lectures]
Biosphere: Species distribution modelling; Aggregate phenomena modelling; Ecosystem modelling;
Animal identiﬁcation; Case study: Green Security games, Bird Returns program. [6 Lectures]
Health, Food & Water: Health/medical informatics & Telemedicine; Poverty mapping, Food & Farm
optimization; Modelling for water distribution. [6 Lectures]
Insuring impact with technology for Education & Gender equality. [3 Lectures]
Usability & HCI for assistive technologies. [3 Lectures]
Green technology & E-waste. [2 Lectures]
Sustainable energy systems: Energy-constrained scheduling, Electricity demand & renewable resource
prediction, Models for energy consumption, Smart grid. [4 Lectures]
IT energy eﬃciency: Measure energy eﬃciency of computer system components in sync with solution
frameworks; Energy consumption estimation of whole systems; Energy eﬃciency metrics; Sustainable
resource management techniques for cloud computing, edge/fog computing, high-performance
computing, wearable computing, Internet-of-Things (IoT), and cyber-physical systems; Sustainable data
centers. [10 Lectures]
1. Theis, T., & Tomkin, J. (2015). Sustainability: A Comprehensive Foundation. OpenStax CNX.
Issa, T., & Isaias, P. (2015). Sustainable Design: HCI, Usability and Environmental Concerns.
3. Green & Sustainable Computing - Part I & II. Elsevier.
1. Gomes, C. et al. (2019). Computational Sustainability: Computing for a Better World and a
Sustainable Future. Communications of the ACM, 62(9),56-65.
2. Sustainability Metrics Reading List: https://afddf8e8-2dfc-4526-9ba6-
3. Reading List: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs6702/2011sp/.
4. Reading List: https://www.coursera.org/learn/sustainability#syllabus
700 - Level Elective Course
B. Tech., M.Tech., PhD
Introduction to Machine Learning, PRML
Provide background on some of the important models, algorithms, and applications related to stream
Ability to understand and apply the practical and algorithmic aspects related to various topics of data
Introduction: Stream and mining algorithms. (2 Lectures)
Clustering Massive Data Streams: Micro-clustering based stream mining, Clustering evolving data
streams, Online Micro-cluster maintenance, High-dimensional projected stream clustering,
Classiﬁcation of data streams using micro-clustering, On-demand stream classiﬁcation,
Applications of micro- clustering. (12 Lectures)
Classiﬁcation Methods in Data Streams: Ensemble based classiﬁcation, Very fast decision trees, On-
demand classiﬁcation, Online Information Network. (6 Lectures)
Distributed Mining of Data Streams: Outlier and anomaly detection, Clustering, Frequent itemset
mining, Classiﬁcation, Summarization. (6 Lectures)
Change Diagnosis Algorithms in Evolving Data Streams: Velocity density method, Clustering for
characterizing stream evolution. (4 Lectures)
Multidimensional Analysis of Data Streams using Stream Cubes: Architecture for online analysis of
data streams, Stream data cube computation, Performance study. (6 Lectures)
Dimensionality Reduction and Forecasting on Streams: Principal Component Analysis,
Auto-regressive models and recursive least squares, Tracking correlations and hidden variables. (6
C.C. AGGARWAL, (Ed.), Data Stream: Models and Algorithms, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2007.
700 - Level Elective Course
Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs)
Department Computer Science and Engineering
Prerequisite Computer Networks, Introduction to Wireless Ad hoc
B. Tech, M.Tech. and Ph.D.
The Instructor will:
standards and applications
2. Provide the design considerations and challenges of vehicle-to-infrastructure and
vehicle-to-vehicle communications. Theories such as vehicular mobility modeling, and
vehicular technologies and standards from the physical to network layers will be introduced
in the course. Examples of emerging applications of vehicular communications in Intelligent
Transportation Systems will also be studied and discussed.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand and describe the basic theories and principles, technologies, standards, and
system architecture of vehicular ad-hoc networks (VANET) or inter-vehicle communication
2. Analyze, design, and evaluate vehicular communication platforms for various kinds of safety
and infotainment applications.
Introduction: Basic principles and challenges, past and ongoing VANET activities (2 Lectures)
Cooperative Vehicular Safety Applications: Enabling technologies, cooperative system
architecture, safety applications (2 lectures)
Vehicular Mobility Modeling: Random models, ﬂow and traﬃc models, behavioral models, trace
and survey based models, joint transport and communication simulations (4 lectures)
Physical Layer Considerations for Vehicular Communications: Signal propagation, Doppler spread
and its impact on OFDM systems (4 lectures)
MAC Layer of Vehicular Communication Networks: Proposed MAC approaches and standards,
IEEE 802.11p (8 lectures)
VANET Routing protocols: Opportunistic packet forwarding, topology-based routing, geographic
routing (8 lectures)
Emerging VANET Applications: Limitations, example applications, communication paradigms,
message coding and composition, data aggregation (8 lectures)
Standards and Regulations: Regulations and Standards, DSRC Protocol Stack, Cellular V2X (6
Programming exercises using NS3, QualNet and Java
1. Olariu, S., & Weigle, M. C. (2017). Vehicular networks: from theory to practice. Chapman
2. Murthy, C. S. R. (2006). Ad hoc wireless networks: Architectures and protocols. Pearson
1. Emmelmann, M., Bochow, B., & Kellum, C.
(2010). Vehicular networking:
Automotive  applications and beyond (Vol. 2). John Wiley & Sons
2. Claudia Campolo , Antonella Molinaro, Riccardo Scopigno(2015). Vehicular ad hoc
3. Hartenstein, H., & Laberteaux, K. (2010). VANET: vehicular applications and
inter-networking technologies (Vol. 1). Chichester: Wiley
4. Sommer, C., & Dressler, F. (2015). Vehicular networking. Cambridge University Press
700 - Level Elective Course
5. Moustafa, H., & Zhang, Y.
(2009). Vehicular networks:
techniques, standards, and
applications. Auerbach publications
Self Learning Material
1. Center for Autonomous Intelligent Networks and Systems (CAINS), University of
California, Los Angeles (UCLA),http://www.cains.cs.ucla.edu/
700 - Level Elective Course
B.Tech., M.Tech., Ph.D.
Structure (L-T-P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
1. To make the students familiar with several issues and challenges involved in the task of
2. To enable students to formulate problems related to video processing and explore
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Address the challenging issues of video processing and to come with new solutions by
2. Handle multi-dimensional signals other than videos
Digital Images and Video:Human Visual Systems, Analog Video, Digital Video, 3D Video,
Video Quality (2 Lectures)
Multi Dimensional Signals and Systems: Multi-dimensional Signals, Multi-dimensional
dimensional transforms, Multi-dimensional Sampling Theory (7 Lectures)
Motion Estimation: Camera Models, Motion Models, Motion Estimation, Differential Methods,
Matching Methods, Non-linear Optimization Methods, 3-D Motion and Shape Estimation (10
Video Segmentation and Tracking: Basics of Segmentation, Video based Segmentation
Algorithms Change Detection, Motion Segmentation, Motion Tracking, Performance Evaluation
Video Filtering:Spatio-temporal Filtering, Video Format Conversion, Multi-Frame Noise
Filtering, Multi- Frame Restoration (6 Lectures)
Video Compression: Motion JPEG 2000, MPEG-4, HEVC, SHVC, H.264 (3 Lectures)
Modern Topics in Video Processing: Ego-centric Video Processing, 360-degree Video,
Streaming Video (4 Lectures)
1. A.M. TEKALP (2015), Digital Video Processing, Prentice Hall Signal Processing Series, 2nd
2. A. BOVIK (2009), The Essential Guide to Video Processing, Academic Press, 2nd Edition.
1. E. MAGGIO, A. CAVALLARO (2011), Video Tracking: Theory and Practice, Wiley and Sons.
2. M. WOHL (2017), The 360° Video Handbook.
3. Research literature
700 - Level Elective Course
Virtualization and Cloud Computing
Computer Science & Engineering
Operating Systems, Computer Networks Antirequisite
Structure (L-T-P [C])
This course will introduce fundamentals of virtualization and concepts, frameworks, and
applications in Cloud Computing to the audience
1. To understand various virtualization techniques and their features and limitations
2. To understand design and concepts of a cloud computing framework
Cloud Computing: Concept, Deﬁnition, Cloud Types and Service Deployment Models. (5
Virtualization: Concept, Deﬁnition, Types of Virtualization, Hardware Virtualization, Full and Para
Virtualization, Hypervisors, Hardware-assisted virtualization, operating system level
virtualization, application virtualization (10 Lectures)
Virtual and Physical Networking: Introduction, vSwitches, virtual NICs, Virtual Networking, virtual
LAN (5 Lectures)
Storage Virtualization: Introduction, SAN/NAS versus storage virtualization. (4 Lectures)
Virtual Machine Management: Base Virtual Machine, Virtual CPUs, Sockets, Cores, Memory
Scaling Up and Scaling Down, USB Support, Virtual Disks, Live Migration. Security. (10 Lectures)
Containers: Concept, Deﬁnition, Docker, Container versus Virtualization, Portability, Remote
deployment (5 Lectures)
Applications and Case Studies: Linux KVM, VirtualBox, Openstack. (3 Lectures)
1. D.E. SARNA (2010), Implementing and Developing Cloud Computing Applications, CRC Press.
2. B.S. SODHI (2017), Topics in Virtualization and Cloud Computing, Ropar PB India, 2017.
B. FURHT, A. ESCALANTE (2010), Handbook of Cloud Computing (Vol. 3), Springer.
700 - Level Courses
● Selected / Special Topics (CSE and AI&DS)
Selected Topics in Artiﬁcial Intelligence - I
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech., M.Tech., PhD
Decided by the instructor
The Instructor will:
1. Expose the students to the latest upcoming ﬁelds in the area of artiﬁcial intelligence
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply the knowledge of recent topics to speciﬁc research areas in the ﬁeld of artiﬁcial
The topic clouds for the course include contemporary topics in artiﬁcial intelligence and may be
updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
700 - Level Selected / Special Topic
Selected Topics in Artiﬁcial Intelligence - II
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech., M.Tech., PhD
Decided by the instructor
The Instructor will:
1. Expose the students to the latest upcoming ﬁelds in the area of artiﬁcial intelligence
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply the knowledge of recent topics to speciﬁc research areas in the ﬁeld of artiﬁcial
The topic clouds for the course include contemporary topics in artiﬁcial intelligence and may
be updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
700 - Level Selected / Special Topic
Selected Topics in Artiﬁcial Intelligence - III
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech., M.Tech., PhD
Decided by the instructor
The Instructor will:
1. Expose the students to the latest upcoming ﬁelds in the area of artiﬁcial intelligence
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply the knowledge of recent topics to speciﬁc research areas in the ﬁeld of artiﬁcial
The topic clouds for the course include contemporary topics in artiﬁcial intelligence and may be
updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
700 - Level Selected / Special Topic
Selected Topics in Computer Science - I
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech., M.Tech., PhD
Decided by the instructor
The Instructor will:
1. Expose the students to the latest upcoming ﬁelds in the area of computer science
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply the knowledge of recent topics to speciﬁc research areas in the ﬁeld of computer science
The topic clouds for the course include contemporary topics in computer science and may be
updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
700 - Level Selected / Special Topic
Selected Topics in Computer Science - II
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech., M.Tech., PhD
Decided by the instructor
The Instructor will:
1. Expose the students to the latest upcoming ﬁelds in the area of computer science
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply the knowledge of recent topics to speciﬁc research areas in the ﬁeld of computer
The topic clouds for the course include contemporary topics in computer science and may be
updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
700 - Level Selected / Special Topic
Selected Topics in Computer Science - III
Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech., M.Tech., PhD
Decided by the instructor
The Instructor will:
1. Expose the students to the latest upcoming ﬁelds in the area of computer science
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Apply the knowledge of recent topics to speciﬁc research areas in the ﬁeld of computer
The topic clouds for the course include contemporary topics in computer science and may be
updated according to the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
Preparatory Course Material
Relevant Textbook and/or research papers to be announced by the instructor.
700 - Level Selected / Special Topic
Special Topics in Algorithms
Department Computer Science
Prerequisite Algorithm Design and Analysis,
B. Tech., M.Tech., PhD
Maths for Computing
Antirequisite / Preferred
1. The objective of the course is to introduce several advanced algorithmic techniques.
Students will gain the ability to:
1. Learn a new set of techniques to cope with NP-hard problems.
Identify novel and signiﬁcant open research questions in the ﬁeld.
[10 lectures]: Greedy Algorithm – Load Balancing, Center
[5 Lectures]; The Pricing Method: Vertex Cover, Linear
Parameterized Algorithms [13 lectures]:
Introduction to Parameterized Complexity and
basics [2 Lectures]; Branching [4 Lectures]; Iterative Compression [3 Lectures]; Kernelization
Selection Problem, Set Cover
Programming and Rounding: An application to Vertex Cover, Knapsack [5 Lectures]
Randomized Algorithms [10 lectures]: Contention Resolution, Global Mincut, Random
Variables and Expectations, Max-3-SAT approximation [7 Lectures]; Color Coding [3 Lectures]
Exact Exponential Time Algorithms [7 lectures]: Exact Algorithms for Coloring, SAT, Directed
Feedback Arc Set, Max-Cut, Monotone-Local-Search, Or some other topics of contemporary
Streaming Algorithms [2 lectures]: Introduction to streaming algorithms and its application
to some graph theoretic problems.
1. Marek Cygan, Fedor V. Fomin, Lukasz Kowalik, Daniel Lokshtanov, Daniel Marx,
Marcin Pilipczuk, Michal Pilipczuk, Saket Saurabh (2015): Parameterized Algorithms,
2. Jon Kleinberg, Eva Tardos (2005), Algorithm Design, Pearson Education, 1st Edition.
3. Fedor V. Fomin, Dieter Kratsch (2010), Exact Exponential Time Algorithms, An EATCS
Self Learning Material