Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome To The Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat
‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ (EBSB) programme was launched by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India on 31st October 2015 i.e. “Ekta Diwas” celebrating the occasion of 140th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel to foster the idea of national integration through a coordinated mutual engagement process between states, union territories, central ministries, educational institutions and the general public through linguistic, literary, cultural and other forms of people-to-people direct exchanges thereby strengthening the unity and integrity of India. With an idea to showcase the rich heritage and culture of Rajasthan, the EBSB club was started at IIT Jodhpur in December 2019 with an objective to provide the opportunity to one and all and in the process helps in understanding the heritage of the beautiful blue city of Jodhpur.  The objectives of the club are: To celebrate the unity in diversity of our nation and to maintain and strengthen the fabric of traditionally existing emotional bonds between the people of our country; To promote the spirit of national integration through a deep and structured engagement between all states and union territories through year-long planned activities between states; To showcase the rich heritage and culture, customs and traditions of either State for enabling people to understand and appreciate the diversity of India, thus fostering a sense of collectiveness and shared identity; To create an environment promoting a different form of learning between states by sharing of best practices followed and experiences; and To establish long term engagements The following activities were organized by the EBSB club recently: IIT Guwahati students visited IIT Jodhpur in the month of December 2019 with an objective of understanding our cultural diversity, heritage, customs and traditions. EBSB day 1st  was celebrated on 2nd March 2020, in which various activities were organised in the auditorium of IIT Jodhpur IIT Jodhpur students visited IIT Guwahati with an objective of understanding the royal history, cultural heritage, cuisines, the flora of medicinal importance etc.  Regular webinars and awareness talks are organised to promote the theme of the EBSB programme. To facilitate greater participation of students; various activities are planned to be organised under the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ Programme depending on the interest and skills of every individual like dancing, drama skits, presentations, poetry, anchoring etc. We are looking for enthusiastic students for active participation to harbour the EBSB programme objective on a much wider and diverse scale. Also, all forms of inputs and suggestions are always welcome in any form.
Dr Bhaswati Sarma
EBSB Nodal Officer
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 07 Mar 2025 - 11:31 AM