M. Tech. and M.Tech-PhD
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
with Major in Energy
With the tremendous focus on energy sources such as solar, wind, hydropower to name
a few,  skills to develop necessary infrastructure for energy generation, transmission
and  distribution  from  these  sources  are  required.  To  cater  to  future  needs  and
emerging  infrastructure,  the  M.Tech.  and  M.  Tech-Ph.  D.  Program  on  Civil  and
Infrastructure  Engineering  with  a  major  (specialization)  in  “Energy”  is  exclusively
designed. The program is offered to the students/candidates with diverse engineering
backgrounds from India and abroad who are interested in learning and applying the
fundamental  and  advanced
distribution, storage and conservation) in different areas of energy engineering. The
program  equips  students  with  a  unique  set  of  skills  desired  in  multidisciplinary  and
dynamic energy industries. To facilitate prospective graduates with the scope of this
program,  “Career  Trajectory”  maps  for  all  disciplines  are  developed.  A  “Career
Trajectory” is a framework for understanding the demand of different energy industries
in  terms  of  skills  and  their  mapping  with  the  courses  that  are  being  offered  in  this
program  across  multiple  departments.  It  will  assist  students  in  identifying  the  core
skills  (general,  core,  and  advanced)  and  courses  to  build  their  career  in  the  chosen
The  program  constitutes  a  unique  value-added  model  that  allows  students  to  select
courses from a) “Specialized Stream Electives" and (b) "M. Tech Electives" buckets to
build their knowledge in a specialized stream and gain skills they would need to enter
into  the  desired  energy  industry.  Specialized  courses  are  designed  to  tap  rapidly
changing  energy  market  while  employing  emerging  technologies.  Furthermore,  it
builds a platform for multidisciplinary research to unravel complex problems associated
with global energy infrastructure. After successful completion of the program, students
will be able to continue to a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in a number of related areas
of  chosen  stream.  This  program  potentially  delivers  an  ability  to  the  graduates  to
change  the  landscape  of  our  planet  through  advanced  energy  generation  and
An outline of the concept behind this program is presented in the following sections.
Objective of the Program
IIT Jodhpur Civil and Infrastructure Engineering graduates with a major in Energy will:
1.  Enter the industry as professionals and leaders to implement solutions to diverse
technical challenges of energy infrastructure.
2.  Pursue  innovative  and  advanced  research  as  scholars  and  scientists  in  leading
industry and academic R&D centers around the world to develop state-of-the-art
technologies related to future energy infrastructure.
3.  Establish  and  lead  startups  in  emerging  areas  of  sustainability,  resilience,
management, and effective utilization of various sources of energy.
4.  Frame policies, management regulations and ethical guidelines correlating dynamic
energy demands, utilization and distribution.
A successful graduate should be able to:
1.  Understand  the  relation  between  different  engineering  aspects  (i.e.  electrical,
mechanical, chemical, etc.) of various energy infrastructures.
2.  Understand the impacts and limitations of different energy resources under various
3.  Understand  and  relate  the  engineering,  economy,  and  policy  aspects  of  energy
4.  Design  and  implement  energy-efficient  infrastructure  related  to  generation,
transmission, distribution of energy.
5.  Carry  out  in-depth  multi-faced  investigations  (e.g.  analytical,  experimental,  and
numerical)  in  various  infrastructure  engineering  issues  and  propose  innovative
6.  Design new models, collect relevant data, and perform validation to help in decision
making,  developing  and  implementing  advanced  energy  infrastructure  concepts,
and solving engineering issues.
7.  Participate  and  work  in  interdisciplinary  teams,  demonstrate  knowledge  of
advanced management skills, and implement sustainable practices in infrastructure
Upon successful completion of the program, the graduate will have an ability
1.  To apply and demonstrate acquired knowledge of popular (solar, wind, etc.) and
upcoming (tidal, biomass, fuel cell, hydrogen, etc.) energy technologies and their
operation in infrastructure engineering practices.
2.  To apply engineering design and management aspects of the complete lifecycle of
energy: from generation to distribution.
3.  To identify, formulate and apply basics of energy harvesting and storage to mitigate
challenges related to power fluctuations.
4.  To apply appropriate techniques of modeling and prediction, modern engineering
and  IT  tools  to  complex  engineering  activities  with  an  understanding  of  the
5.  To plan, design and execute large scale infrastructure projects on smart cities to
meet future energy needs.
6.  To compete, lead, and practice a successful professional career in the core areas
of  expertise  with  specialized  knowledge
Overall Structure (M. Tech. in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering with Major
Semester wise distribution of credits
L-T-P  Credits  Cat. Course Title
PC  Program Core
SSE Specialization stream -
SSE Specialization stream -1 3-0-0
SSE Specialization stream -
SSE Specialization stream -2 3-0-0
ME  Program Elective – 1
SSE Specialization stream -3 3-0-0
SSE Specialization stream -4 3-0-0
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
ME  Program Elective - 3
ME  Program Elective – 2
NG  HSN7XX0:  Professional
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
ME  Program Elective - 4
ME  Program Elective - 5
ME  Program Elective - 6
MO  Open Elective-1
Engineering  and  Project
Total (Graded+ Non-graded)
Total (Graded + Non-graded)
Program Core Course (PC)
S.No.  Course Title
Introduction to Sustainable Infrastructure Engineering
List of Specialization Stream Elective (SSE) Courses
(Student may choose any 17 credits from the list below in addition to the mandatory
S.No.  Course Title
Power Plant Engineering
1  Solar Energy and Application
2  Wind turbine and Field Design
3  Offshore Tidal Energy Harvesting
4  Offshore Wind Energy Harvesting
7  Smart Grid
8  Biomass Energy Conversion
9  Hydrogen and Methanol Economy
10  Plugin Electric Vehicles
11  Transmission Infrastructure
12  Fuel Cell Technology
13  Electrochemical Conversion and Storage
14  Advanced Waste Water Treatment
15  Selected Topics in Distributed Generations
16  Materials for Electrochemical energy Conversion and Storage 2-0-0
17  Energy Economics and policy
18  Environmental Aspects of Power Plant
List of Elective (ME) Courses
Gas Insulated Substations
Power System Protection
Civil & Infrastructure
Cyber-Physical Security in Smart Grid  3-0-0  3
Stability of Slopes
Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering  3-0-0  3
Wind and Earthquake Engineering
Climate Change and Impact
Air Pollution and Control
Traffic Flow Theory
Traffic System and Management
Advanced Mechanics of Solids
Theory of Vibration
Solid Waste Management
Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion
Wave Energy Conversion
Process Safety and Hazard
Advanced Energy Systems
Microfluidic Fuel Cell
Optics for Solar Energy Applications
Artificial Intelligence – I
Machine Learning - I
Selected  Topic  in  Energy  Science  and
* Topic and course contents focusing on the emerging areas and energy technologies would be
designed by the course instructor (or Department)
Topic Clouds Mapped with Specialization Stream Elective Courses (SSE)
Offering Department  Topic clouds
Concentrated  Solar  Power;  Energy
conversion; Thermal comfort; Passive
heating  and  cooling;  Daylighting;
Building  modeling  and  simulation;
Solar  PV;  Grid  integration;  MPPT
techniques; Solar panels
Wind  Measurement  and  statistical
Aerodynamics;  Anatomy  of  wind
turbines;  Design  of  rotor  blades;
Aeroelasticity;  Control  mechanisms;
Pitch and stall regulation
loads;  Rotor  and  mooring  dynamics;
Tidal  dynamics  and  ocean  currents;
Tidal  energy  system  design;  Control
and  stability  of  tidal  power  plants;
Offshore  wind;  wave  environment;
Fixed and floating offshore platforms;
Wind  load  on  structures;  Coupled  &
uncoupled analysis; Fatigue analysis;
Offshore  wind  turbine  field  design;
benefit evaluation; Power Ratio
Thermal  power  plant;  Nuclear  power
plant;  Hydroelectric  power  plant;
Solar  thermal  power  plant;  Hybrid
power plant; Plant layout, design and
Infrastructure;  Boilers;  Condensers;
Gas turbine; Wind turbines; Fuel cell;
load  and  efficiency;  Tidal
Generator; Transformer; Energy  cost
Energy  storage;  Thermal  energy
storage;  Sensible  and  latent  heat
storage;  Electrical  energy  storage;
Chemical and Electrochemical energy
Hydrogen storage; Mechanical energy
storage;  Flywheel;  Pumped  Hydro;
Compressed  air  energy  storage;
Monitoring and Protection
Biofuels  and  bio  power;  Biomass
characteristics;  Pre-treatment  and
processing;  Gasification;  Pyrolysis;
2  Wind Turbine
Civil & Infrastructure
Civil & Infrastructure
Civil & Infrastructure
Energy Storage  Electrical
kinetics; Algal biofuels; Microbial fuel
cell;  Hydrogen  production;  Artificial
Hydrogen  and  methanol  as  fuels;
Sustainability  aspects;  Production  of
hydrogen  and  methanol  as  fuel;
Hydrogen and methanol production
Introduction to EV; Powertrain
Infrastructure; Vehicle-to-X systems;
Hybrid  Electric  Vehicle;  Vehicle
Communication; PEV integration
Overhead transmission lines;
Underground cables; Marine cables
standards; Gasification; Combustion;
Particulate  matter  control;  Flue  gas
desulfurization;  Types  of  ash;  ash
handling; Sustainable practices
Basic principle of Fuel cell technology;
Kinetics  of  Fuel  cell  electrodes;
Charge and mass transport; Modeling
and  characterization  of  fuel  cell;
Conversion and Storage; Introduction
to  battery  and  Electrochemical
mechanism of Hydrogen production
to  Waste  water
Treatment;  Aerobic  and  Anaerobic
processes;  Mechanism  of  Advanced
Treatment;  Different  unit  operations
for water recycling and reuse
Distributed  generation  introduction;
Control of distributed generation
Microgrids;  Stability  Challenges  in
grid integration; Ancillary services
Large scale hydropower; Hydropower
turbines;  Tidal  power;  Hydropower
investigation; Design of embankment
dams;  Concrete  face  rockfill  dams;
Concrete  gravity  dams;  Foundation
batteries;  Battery  capacity  and  life;
Materials  for  batteries;  2D  and  3D
batteries;  Principle  and  types  of  fuel
Civil & Infrastructure
18  Materials for
Civil & Infrastructure
Humanities  &  Social
cells; Performance of fuel cells; Types
of  solid  oxide  fuel  cells;  Hydrogen
Energy resources; Energy
accounting; Demand analysis;
Demand and load management
Course Content of Program Core Course (PC)
Introduction to Sustainable
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Objectives: This course aims at
1.  Presenting elements and components of sustainable infrastructure creation and
2.  Introducing practices of water management, greenhouse gas reduction, and green
The students will acquire-
1.  Fundamentals and principles of sustainable engineering design.
2.  Knowledge of existing frameworks to achieve long-term sustainability.
3.  Methods and techniques for waste water management and greenhouse gas emission
4.  Knowledge on the engineering and architectural aspects overall green city planning.
●  Process of sustainable engineering design: key principle of sustainability; Integration
of architecture and engineering; design drivers for sustainable infrastructure system;
●  Sustainable  infrastructure  framework:  Green  building  rating  system;  sustainable
infrastructure frameworks: pillars of sustainability, scale-density framework, transect,
built form-ecology framework.
●  Water conservation and supply: water management plans; achieving water balance;
analyzing water resources; water supply strategies.
integrated  stormwater  management;  urban
Integrated  water  management:
stormwater  treatment  strategies;  constraints  and  barriers  to  implementation;
graywater treatment and reuse; integrating graywater into a water resources master
plan; blackwater management approaches.
●  Energy  and  greenhouse  gases:  reducing  demand  by  design;  designing  sustainable
power  supplies;  addressing  climate  change  and  reducing  carbon  footprint;  policy
measures  for  increasing  energy  security  and  efficiency;  design  guidelines  and
●  Sustainable site planning, built systems, and material flows: sustainable site planning;
green streets and transportation network; working with the land; material and waste
●  City-scale  approach:  Case  study1  (Guangzhou:  city-scale  transformation  in  China);
Case  study  2  (Tianjin:  Eco-city  master  plan);  Case-study  3  (PlaNYC:  integrated
stormwater approach); Case study 4 (San Francisco city greening initiative)
1.  S. Bry Sarté (2010) Sustainable Infrastructure. John Wiles & Sons, Inc. ISBN 978-0-
Detailed Course Content of Specialization Stream Courses (SSE)
Biomass Energy Conversion
Bioscience and Bioengineering
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Illustrate the principles and applications of bio-energy harnessing systems ranging
from conventional processes to the latest developments in the area.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Have an understanding of the existing and emerging biomass to energy technologies.
2.  Utilize  the  knowledge  of  bioenergy  systems  while  integrating  bioenergy  with  other
renewable energy systems.
3.  Suggest potential solutions for energy needs by incorporating bioenergy technology.
Bioenergy  context:  Introduction,  Biofuels  and  biopower;  automobile  and  biofuels,
feedstocks (harvested and residual), Emissions from biofuels [Lecture 6].
Thermochemical  biomass  conversion:  Chemical  composition,  Biomass  types  and
characteristics, Biomass pre-treatment and processing, Combustion, Gasification, Pyrolysis,
Catalytic conversion of biomass to liquid biofuels, Life cycle analysis [Lecture 14].
Biochemical biomass conversion: Anaerobic fermentation technology: Biogas production,
process microbiology, different types of bioreactors, basic process kinetics, Various types of
biofuels,1st  and  2nd  generation  biofuels,  Algal  Biofuels,  ASTM  standards  for  biofuels,
Engineered microbes for biofuel [Lecture 10].
Bioelectrochemical systems: Introduction to Microbial Fuel cells (MFC), Nernst equation
and  electrochemical  potential  difference,  the  redox  reactions,  calculating  and  measuring
potentials,  The  exoelectrogenic  microbes,  MFC  components,  Applications  of  MFC,  Bio
electrochemical system for Hydrogen production, Artificial photosynthesis [Lecture 12].
Lab: Biomass acid treatment process and estimation of reducing sugars, performing ethanol
fermentation  and  determine  ethanol  yield  and  productivity,  performing  butanol
fermentation,  setting  up  a  biogas  production  process,  Screening  cellulose  producers  from
natural  environments,  enzyme  activity  assays  for  lignocellulosic  waste,  performing  acid
catalysed/base  catalysed  biodiesel  production-comparison  of  process  kinetics,  determine
biodiesel  yield  with  sequential  base/acid  treatment  for  free  fatty  acid  rich  microbial  oil,
Setting up Microbial fuel cells,
1.  German Solar Energy Society, Ecofys, (2006) Planning and installing bioenergy
systems: A guide for installers, architects and engineers, Earthscan,
2.  Vertes, A. A., Qureshi, A., Yukawa, H.,  Blaschek, H.P.,(2010) Biomass to
3.  H. S. Mukunda, Understanding Clean Energy and Fuels from Biomass, Wiley India
Pvt. Ltd., 2011.
1.    Stanier, R. Y., (2009) General Microbiology, W.H. Freeman and Co.
2.    Pelczar, M.J., Chan, E. C. S., Krieg, N.R.,(2001) Microbiology, Tata McGraw - Hill
Online course material
Michelle  O'Malley,  Fueling  Sustainability:  Engineering  Microbial  Systems  for  Biofuel
Technology, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
2011,  MIT  OpenCourseWare  Massachusetts
Solar Energy and Applications
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
This course has objectives-
1.  to  familiarize  students  with  the  potential  of  solar  energy  to  meet  the  growing  energy
demands of society in a sustainable way,
2.  to  elaborate  students,  the  concepts  of  solar  energy  applications  in  architecture  and
3.  to illustrate solar technologies of producing power and cooling/heating in buildings.
The students will acquire-
1.  knowledge  of  various  means  of  solar  energy  utilization  technologies  and  their
2.  ability to model, design and evaluate solar energy systems and their applications from
the fundamental principles and methods.
3.  practical exposer to various measurement experiments and simulation of applications.
Solar  Radiation:  Introduction  to  Solar  Radiation,  distribution,  measurement  and  data,  Sun
motion, Introduction to Detectors, Radiation on Sloped Surfaces, Principle of conversion of
solar radiation into heat, Thermal comfort, Introduction to Concentrated Solar Power (CSP)
Technologies. [Lectures 14]
Photovoltaics:  Photovoltaic  (PV)  Effect,  PV  cells,  The  electrical  model  of  PV  cells,  effect  of
shading,  converters  for  grid  integration  of  solar  PV:  DC-DC  boost  converter  and  inverter,
control of boost converter and inverter, MPPT techniques and implementation. Mounting of
solar panels, design and analysis of solar trees. [Lectures 14]
Energy  Efficient  Buildings:  Building  orientation  and  design,  passive  heating  and  cooling
concepts,  thumb  rules,  heat  transfer  in  buildings:  Thermal  modeling  of  passive  concepts,
Evaporative  cooling,  Energy  efficient  windows  and  daylighting,  Earth  air  tunnel  and  heat
exchanger, Zero energy building concept and rating systems, Energy conservation building
codes, Software for Building Simulation, Automation and Energy Management of Buildings.
Laboratory Classes [12-13 Classes]
Experiments:  Measurement  of  solar  radiation,  Measurement  of-emissivity,  reflectivity,
transmittivity,  Performance  testing  of  forced  flow  &  thermosyphon  systems,  Performance
testing  of-  solar  air  heater,  dryer,  desalination  unit,  solar  flat  plate  collector,  solar
concentrators, Testing and characterization solar PV.
Computational hands-on: Simulation of- Heating and cooling of buildings, Hot water storage
system, Heat exchangers, Grid integration of Solar PV, etc.
1. Solar Engineering of Thermal Processes. John A. Duffie, William A. Beckman. John,
Fourth Edition, Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2013.
2. Renewable Energy Resources: Basic Principles and Applications. G. N. Tiwari, M K.
Ghosal, Narosa Publishing House, New Delhi, 2004.
3. M.S. Sodha, N.K. Bansal, P.K. Bansal, A. Kumar, and M.A.S.Malik, Solar Passive Building,
Science and Design, Pergamon Press, 1986.
4. Masters,G.M.,  (2004),  Renewable  and  Efficient  Electric  Power  Systems,  John  Wiley  &
4.  Solar Energy Technology https://nptel.ac.in/courses/112/105/112105051/
Wind turbine and field design
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  To provide high-level insight into the technical and engineering aspects of wind energy.
2.  To  develop  understanding  of  advanced  principles  of  aerodynamics  and  structural
mechanics used in design of wind turbine.
The students will have understanding of:
1.  Wind turbine dynamic system behavior with integrated components and their control for
a given application.
2.  Computing performance characteristics of the main components of wind turbine.
3.  Wind turbine blade aerodynamics to predict force components and moments experienced
by modern wind turbines.
Wind power: Introduction to wind power: Maximum rated power, power coefficient, average
annual power from a wind turbine, wind speed relationships based on the Beaufort scale, wind
turbine protection from the wind, total energy from the wind, energy content, geographical
resource  distribution,  influence  of  terrain,  measurement  methods  and  statistical  analysis.
Aerodynamics: Fluid flow concept, 2-D Aerodynamics, 3-D aerodynamics. (Lectures: 12)
Turbines:  Introduction  and  Evolution  of  wind  turbines,  classification  and  status  and  basic
anatomy of wind turbines, design of turbine rotor blades, HAWTs, VAWTs, Betz and Glaurets
turbine theories and the BEM method, Horizontal and vertical axis wind turbines (HAWTs and
VAWTs), blades, choice of materials and adaptation to different climates, aeroelasticity and
Wind turbine modelling. (Lectures: 10)
Controls: Control mechanisms, control targets, control strategies (pitch and stall regulation).
Laboratory:  Modelling  of  (a)  drivetrain  (b)  stress  generation  on  wind  blades  (c)  Flow
Modelling Around a Wind Turbine; (d) neck and welding points stress modelling
1.  J.  F.  Maxwell,  J.  G.  McGowan,  and  A.  L.  Rogers,  Wind  Energy  Explained  –  Theory,
Design, and Applications, John Wiley & Sons, 2010, ISBN: 978-0-47001500-1.
2.  Martin O. L. Hansen, Aerodynamics of Wind Turbines, Second edition, Earthscan, UK,
Offshore Tidal Energy Harvesting
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  Holistic introduction of different aspects of a tidal energy system.
2.  Introduction of design principles and size optimization.
3.  Basics of control and reliability assessment of a tidal system.
1.  Knowledge of prefeasibility assessment models.
2.  Knowledge of optimization techniques to increase efficiency of a tidal energy system.
3.  Different control system of a tidal current turbine.
4.  Knowledge of different failure models for reliability assessment.
Introduction  of  tidal  energy:  Principles  and  components  of  tidal  power  plants;  Available
technologies and concepts; Estimation of energy calculation; Tidal dynamics and structures
of tidal currents. (Lectures: 6)
Prefeasibility  analysis:  Analysis  of  location;  Physical  boundaries  of  assessment;  Static  v/s
transect field survey; Location assessment: Farm method and Flux method. (Lectures: 6)
Optimum sizing and modelling of tidal energy system: Modelling of tidal energy conversion
systems; Numerical solution of tidal energy systems; Modelling of a tidal current turbine;
Tidal energy facility size. (Lectures: 6)
Hydrokinetic turbine: Basic principles; emerging designs: Unducted horizontal-axis turbines,
Ducted horizontal-axis turbines, Unducted cross-flow turbines, Ducted cross-flow turbines,
Gorlov  helical  turbine,  Vortex-induced-vibration  systems,  Venturi  systems,  Oscillating
hydrofoils, Paddle wheels, Flutter vane, Fan belt; Mooring systems and power transmission.
Control  system:  Automatic  control  system;  Control  strategies  of  ocean  wave  conversion
systems; Reactive power control of tidal turbine; Dynamic control of tidal current turbine;
Power system stability analysis. (Lectures: 6)
Reliability  assessment:  The  failure  distribution  model;  Constant  failure  rate  model;  Time
dependent  failure  model;  Assessment  of  tidal  energy  system  by  fault  tree  analysis.
Advances  in  tidal  energy  systems:  Tidal  energy  system  scenario:  India  and  World;
Environmental  assessment;  Tidal  harmonic  analysis;  Assessment  of  tidal  energy  system:
Optimization technique and Game theory; Economic analysis. (Lectures: 6)
1.  Vikas Khare, Cheshta Khare , Savita Nema,  Prashant Baredar (2019). Tidal energy
systems. Elsevier. ISBN: 978-0-12-814881-5.
2.  S. K. Chakrabarti (2021). Dynamics of floating offshore structures. World Scientific.
1.  Lago  LI,  Ponta  FL,  Chen  L  (2010)  Advances  and  trends  in  hydrokinetic  turbine
systems. Energy for Sustainable Development. Volume 14, Issue 4, Pages 287-296.
Offshore Wind Energy Harvesting
Department  Civil Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D. [CIE]
1.  To highlight the complexities of an offshore wind farms and differences with their
2.  To introduce the principles of an offshore wind farm design.
3.  To introduce principles of management and economics of a wind farm
The students will have understanding of:
1.  Aerodynamic, hydrodynamic, and structural loads on offshore wind structures.
2.  Design of fixed and floating platforms for wind turbines.
3.  Principles of designs of a wind firm, its control, and maintenance.
4.  Details of the life-cycle cost and economic feasibility study of an offshore wind farm.
The offshore environment: Atmospheric wind flow and its characteristic in the boundary layer,
ocean winds, wave theories, wind and wave forces on offshore structures (Lectures: 7)
Fixed and floating offshore platforms, their analysis, and design:  Fixed and floating offshore
platforms, mooring lines-their dynamic analysis, wind forces on offshore structures, Design
provisions  in  API  and  DNV  codes,  Fixed  and  floating  offshore  wind  turbines-their  dynamic
analysis, coupled and uncoupled analysis, Fatigue consideration (Lectures: 8)
Floating  offshore  wind  turbines  (FOWT):  OWT  drivetrain  and  gearbox  simulation;  Dynamic
behaviour  of  bearings  on  offshore  wind  turbine  gearbox:  Experimental  characterization  of
OWT gearbox in operation. (Lectures: 7)
Offshore wind turbine field design:  Spatiotemporal wind resource assessment; Bathymetry
and  other  sea  constraints;  Strategic  planning;  Offshore  wind  farm  design;  Large  eddy
simulation of wind farm aerodynamics. (Lectures: 7)
Operation and Maintenance Modelling: Classification of models; State-of-the-art in modelling;
Decision support tools:  vessel-fleet  optimization models, cost-benefit  evaluation of remote
inspection. (Lectures: 7)
Life-cycle  cost  and  economic  feasibility  of  a  floating  offshore  wind  farm:  Life-cycle  cost
calculation: Economic Map Tools and Restrictions Maps Tools; Life-cycle definition, breakdown
structure of processes, and calculation of costs; CAPEX and OPEX; Net Present Value (NPV);
Internal Rate of Return (IRR); Discounted Pay-Back Period (DPBP); Levelized Cost of Energy
(LCOE); Cost of Power Ratio. (Lectures:7)
1.  Olimpo  Anaya-Lara,  John  O.  Tande,  Kjetil  Uhlen,  Karl  Merz  (2018)  Offshore  Wind
Energy Technology. Wiley. ISBN 9781119097785.
2.  Joao Cruz, Mairead Atcheson (2016). Floating offshore wind energy (1st Ed). Springer.
3.  Wiesław Ostachowicz, Malcolm McGugan, Jens-Uwe Schroder-Hinrichs, Marcin Luczak.
MARE-WINT.  New  Materials  and  Reliability  in  Offshore  Wind  Turbine  Technology.
Springer Nature. ISBN 978-3-319-39034-9.
4.  Laura  Castro-Santos,  Vincente  Diaz-Casas  (2016)  Floating  Offshore  Wind  Farms.
Springer. ISBN 978-3-319-27972-5.
5.  S. K. Chakrabarti (2021). Dynamics of floating offshore structures. World Scientific.
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  understanding  of  various  types  of  energy  storage  elements,  their  principle,
characteristics, and applications
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design suitable energy  storage technology as  per demand, location, cost and  other
2.  Test and characterize various batteries/systems under different operating and
Fractal - 1
Energy  Storage  Systems:  Introduction  of  energy  storage  systems,  Energy  Demand,
Energy Storage Methods and comparison. (4 Lectures)
Thermal  energy  storage  systems:  Basic  Principle,  Thermal  energy  storage  methods,
Sensible heat storage. (5 Lectures)
Latent heat storage, phase-change materials, operational aspects, Cold thermal energy
storage, Seasonal thermal energy storage (5 Lectures)
Fractal - 2
Mechanical  energy  storage  systems:  Introduction,  Flywheel  energy  storage-design  and
components (4 Lectures)
Pumped hydropower storage (3 Lectures)
Compressed-air energy storage- Specifications of components, classification. (4 Lectures)
Applications,  Technical  characteristics  in  terms  of  power  rating  and  discharge  time,
storage duration, energy efficiency, energy density, cycle life, lifetime, capital cost, etc.
Fractal - 3
Electrochemical/chemical energy storage: Introduction, rechargeable batteries and their
electrochemistry,  types  of  batteries  -  integration  into  electrical  grids,  performance,
characteristics, off-grid systems - sizing - small scale battery storage systems, recycling
technologies, battery testing, battery management, regulations and safety aspects of high
voltage  batteries,  hydrogen  energy  storage  Hydrogen  economy,  fuel  cell,  safety  (11
Electrical energy storage: Superconducting magnetic energy storage systems - principles,
materials, performance, and characteristics, super capacitors (3 lectures)
Laboratory Classes [12-13 Classes] The experiments for the course include:
Measurement of internal resistance, cold-cranking amps, capacity, state of health, charging
efficiency;  Charging  and  discharging  characteristics;  Testing  of  stater-batteries;  Self-
discharge and storage; Effect of temperature on – voltage, capacity, internal resistance, self-
discharge, life; Centralized, distributed, hybrid cell balancing; Design and simulation of
charge  controllers  for  battery;  Simulation  of  battery  management  system;  Simulation  of
different  models  using  different  software  like  Siemens  Simcenter  battery;  design  studio,
1.  Cabeza,L.F.,  (2015),  Advances  in  Thermal  Energy  Storage  Systems:  Methods  and
Applications, Woodhead Publishing
2.  Kalaiselvam,S.,  Parameshwaram  R.,  (2014),  Thermal  Energy  Storage
Sustainability-Systems Design, Assessment and Applications, Academic Press
3.  Alami,A.H., (2020), Mechanical Energy Storage for Renewable and Sustainable Energy
4.  Huggins,R.A., (2014), Energy Storage-Fundamentals, Materials and Applications, 2nd
Self Learning Material
Power Plant Engineering
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
This course is designed-
1.  to introduce different aspects of power plant engineering such as power plant layout,
operation and safety principles
2.  to  provide  knowledge  of  the  working  principle  of  conversion  of  different  energy
resources into electrical power generation.
The students will acquire-
1.  ability  to  select  an  appropriate  type  of  power  plant  for  given  requirements  under
2.  skills  for  optimization  of  energy  efficiency  of  power  plants  with  respect  to  available
resources and energy requirements.
3.  ability to analyze the working and layout of power plants and the various components
comprising the plant.
Introduction to power plant engineering: Sources of energy, National and International status
on power generation. (Lectures: 2)
Thermal  Power  Plant:  Plant  layout,  Thermal  power  plant  equipment,  Types  of  boilers,  the
performance of boilers, supercritical steam generator, the performance of condensers, types
of steam turbines, draught system. (Lectures: 8)
Gas Turbine Power Plant: Classification and construction layout, Principles of closed and open
cycle gas turbines. (Lectures: 4)
Combined  cycle  power  plants:  Load  type  and  calculation,  Load  variation,  Use  of  internal
combustion  engine  plant,  Plant  layout  and  design  calculation,  combined  cycle  efficiency.
Nuclear power plant: Principles of nuclear energy, Elements of nuclear power plants, Types
of  nuclear  fuel,  nuclear  reactor,  Boiling  Water  Reactor,  Pressurised  Water  Reactor,
Pressurised  Heavy  Water  Reactor,  Fast  breeder  reactors,  Next  generation  nuclear  plant.
Hydroelectric  power  plant:  Plant layout,  water  turbine,  plant  operation,  water  storage  and
flow  duration,  hydrographs,  Low,  medium  and  high  head  plants,  pumped  storage  plants,
Penstock, water hammer, surge tanks, gates and valves, power house. (Lectures: 6)
Site selection: Selection of for power station, load estimation, load duration curve, load factor,
capacity factor, use factor, diversity factor, demand factor, Effect of variable load on power
plant, selection of the number and size of units. (Lectures: 4)
Economics  and  Environmental  Considerations:  Capital  cost,  Cost  of  energy  production,
Operational cost of power plants, tariffs for electrical energy, Environmental impact, different
types of pollution, fuel availability. (Lectures: 3)
Electrical  components  of  power  plants:  generator,  transformer,  speed  governing  systems,
generator excitation systems, switchyard. (Lectures: 4)
Laboratory Classes [12-13 Classes]
Steam Power Plant: Start-up, Operation and maintenance, Shut down of Steam Power Plant,
Control and monitoring.
Boilers: Efficiency of a steam generator, Analysis of exhaust gas from boiler, Determination
of the heat flux density and the overall heat transfer coefficient in boilers.
Steam Turbine: Demonstration of the function of a steam turbine, Operating Characteristics
of Steam turbine.
Cooling tower: Determination of cooling capacity, Operating Characteristics of Cooling tower
Gas Turbine: Determination of specific fuel consumption, Determination of Shaft power and
1.  M. M. Ei-Wakil, Power Plant Technology, Tata McGraw-Hill.
2.  P. K. Nag, Power Plant Engineering, Tata McGraw-Hill.
3.  F. T. Morse, Power Plant Engineering, D. Van Nostran, New York.
Department  Electrical Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  concepts  and  topics  that  are  relevant  to  smart  grid  technologies  to  facilitate
exploring research opportunities
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the basic concepts of smart grid development and the critical technologies that
underpin  such  development,  their  basic  principles,  physical  constraints,  and  technological
Smart Grid Basics: Evolution of Electric Power Grid and Smart Grid, Objectives, main features
and challenges of smart grid (5 lectures)
Energy  Resources:  Centralized  vs.  distributed  generation  (1  lecture);  renewable  energy:
solar, wind, hydropower, biomass, geothermal, ocean wave; benefit, costs, and policies of
renewable energy (5 lectures); renewable sources integration  – overcoming intermittence;
storage systems technology (4 lectures)
Plug-in  Electric  Vehicle  (PEV):  History  of  EV;  PEV  challenges  and  potential  solutions  (1
lecture); EV and electric power grid; PEV charging infrastructure, challenges and solutions (4
lectures); PEV as an energy storage device and an energy source (V2G) (2 lectures)
Demand-side management: Load profile of the power grid; market pricing (3 lectures); peak
shaving and valley filling; load forecasting (4 lectures); regulations and policies (3 lectures)
Monitoring  and  Protection:  Wide-area  monitoring  system  (WAMS),  SCADA  and  PMU  (4
lectures);  advanced  metering
communication infrastructure and technologies (3 lectures)
infrastructure  (AMI);  smart  metering  (3
Laboratory: Experiments related to the following topics will be conducted under laboratory
component: Characteristics of solar PV, grid integration of renewable energy sources, effect
of  loads  on  power  quality  with  renewable  energy  penetration,  Inverter-based  microgrid,
virtual inertia in inverter-based sources, demand side management, contribution of energy
storage systems to enhance power quality, ancillary services, smart metering, performance
1.  Bollean,M.H.J.,  Hasan,F.,  (2011),  Integration  of  Distributed  Generation  in  the  Power
Systems, Willey-IEEE India Press
2.  Ehsani,M., Gao,Y., Gay,S.E., Emadi,A., (2005), Modern Electric, Hybrid Electric, and Fuel
Cell Vehicles: Fundamentals, Theory, and Design, CRC Press
3.  Bansal,R., (2019), Power System Protection in Smart Grid Environment, CRC Press
Self Learning Material
1. The Smart Grid: An Introduction,
http://www.oe.energy.gov/SmartGridIntroduction.htm, Department of Energy, 2008.
Hydrogen and Methanol Economy
MTech, MTech-PhD, PhD
The Instructor will:
1.    Provide  in-depth  knowledge  about  Hydrogen  and  Methanol  production,  storage,  their
Utility and infrastructure development.
2. Impart knowledge about the economic and environmental viewpoint of using Hydrogen
and Methanol as fuel sources.
The students are expected to have:
1. Proper knowledge about Hydrogen and Methanol production and related issues.
2.  Economic  view  point  of  Hydrogen  and  Methanol  as  fuel  and  the  related  challenges  &
Hydrogen  and  methanol  as  fuels:  General  aspects,  Prelude  to  energy  systems,  Hydrogen
and  Methanol  as  energy  sources,  Future  energy  supply,  Economy  and  Environment,
Sustainability (Lectures: 6)
Hydrogen  Production  Processes:  Properties,  production,  storage,  utilization  and  safely,
Infrastructure  requirement,  Hydrogen  as  a  transportation  fuel,  Hydrogen  based  fuel  cell.
Methanol Production Processes: Properties, production, storage, transportation and safely,
Infrastructure Requirement, Methanol as fuel and energy carrier, Methanol as automobile,
marine and aviation fuel. (Lectures: 14)
Challenges and opportunities: Indian and global perspectives, Domestic and transportation
application, Affordable Technology development, Policy. (Lectures: 6)
Infrastructure and other issues: Storage and transmission infrastructure, Local distribution,
filling stations and building integrated systems, national and international safety standards,
socio-economic implications. (Lectures: 6)
1.  G. A.  Olah,  A.  Goeppert,  G. K. S.  Prakash,(2006),  Beyond  Oil  and  Gas:  The  Methanol
Economy, Wiley‐VCH, Weinheim, Germany.
2.  Ball M. and Wietschel M.,(2009) The Hydrogen Economy Opportunities and Challenges,
Cambridge University Press.
1.  Scipioni,  A.  Manzardo,  J.  Ren,  (2017)  Hydrogen  Economy:  Supply  Chain,  Life  Cycle
Analysis and Energy Transition for Sustainability, Academic Press.
2.  M. Bertau, H. Offermanns, L. Plass, F. Schmidt, H. Wernicke,(2014) Methanol: The Basic
Chemical and Energy Feedstock of the Future, Springer; 2014
3.  Bent  Sorensen,  2012,  Hydrogen  and  Fuel  Cells:  Emerging  Technologies  and
Applications, Elsevier, Second Edition.
Plugin Electric Vehicles
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
L-T-P[C]  3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  understanding  of  various  technologies  of  plugin  electric  vehicle  and
hybrid electric vehicle and their role in smart grid operation
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design  powertrain  circuit  topology  and  appropriate  control  scheme  for  electric
2.  Understand and design EV charging infrastructure
types,  parameters,  battery  modeling,  battery
Introduction  to  EV:  Recent  development  trends,  types  of  electric  vehicles  (2
Powertrain:  Concepts  of  powertrain  sizing  in  EV  and  PHEV,  starting,  braking  (6
Storage  systems:  Battery
management (5 lectures)
Charging  Infrastructure:  Domestic  charging
infrastructure,  public  charging
infrastructure, normal charging station, occasional charging station, fast charging
station, battery swapping station (5 lectures), types of charging: constant voltage,
constant current, pulse charging, inductive, conductive charging (3 lectures)
Vehicle-to-X  systems:  Vehicle-to-grid,  vehicle-to-home  (5  lectures),  vehicle-to-
building, vehicle-to-vehicle (3 lectures)
Hybrid  Electric  Vehicle:  Configuration  of  HEV  (series,  parallel,  series-parallel  &
complex), power flow control in HEV configurations, control (6 lectures)
Vehicle Communication:  Introduction to in-vehicle communications and controller
area network (4 lectures)
PEV integration: Impact on transmission and distribution network (3 lectures)
Laboratory:  Experiments  related  to  the  following  topics  will  be  conducted  under
laboratory  component:  SoC  estimation,  control  of  electric  vehicle  drives,
regenerative  braking,  powertrain  and  vehicle  dynamics,  EV  chargers  and  their
control, vehicle-to-grid technology, vehicle-to-vehicle technology, EV charging from
solar PV, performance of aggregator
Laboratory: Experiments related to the following topics will be conducted under
SoC estimation, control of electric vehicle drives, regenerative braking, powertrain
and  vehicle  dynamics,  EV  chargers  and  their  control,  vehicle-to-grid  technology,
vehicle-to-vehicle  technology,  EV  charging  from  solar  PV,  performance  of
aggregator,  Use  of  simulation  tools  (MATLAB,  SIEMENS  EV  related  softwares)  to
simulate different subsystems of EV and different scenarios.
1.  Husain,I.,  (2011),  Electric  and  Hybrid  Vehicles  Design  Fundamentals,  2nd
Edition, CRC Press
2.  Ehsani,M., Gao,Y., Emadi,A., (2011), Modern Electric, Hybrid Electric, and Fuel
Cell Vehicles Fundamentals, Theory and Design, 2nd Edition, CRC Press
3.  Larminie,J., Lowry,J., (2003), Electric Vehicle Technology Explained, Wiley
Self Learning Material
1.  Jain,A.K.,    Electric  Vehicles  -  Part  1,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Electrical Engineering, IIT Delhi,
2.  Kumar,P., Majhi,S., Introduction to Hybrid and Electric Vehicles, NPTEL Course
Material,  Department  of  Electronics  and  Communication  Engineering,  IIT
Energy Economics and
Humanities and Social Sciences
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  To introduce basics of energy economics and demands.
1.  Knowledge of energy classification, calculation, and audit.
2.  Knowledge of demand analysis and management.
1.  Energy as economic resources: classification of energy resources; measurement of
energy; energy accounting. (Lectures: 7)
2.  Energy demand: basic concepts in economics; descriptive analysis of energy
demand; decomposition analysis and parametric approach; demand side
management; load management. (Lectures: 7)
1.  Alessandro Rubino Alessandro Sapio Massimo La Scala Michelle Hallack (2020)
Handbook of Energy Economics and Policy (1st Ed). Elsevier Academic Press. ISBN:
Online course Material
1.  “Energy Economics and policy” by Prof. Shyamasree Dasgupta on NTPEL.
Materials for Electrochemical Energy
Conversion and Storage
Physics and Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the student with an extended knowledge of the basic principles and recent
advances in Energy Storage materials and associated technologies for consumer electronics
to high-power applications.
2.  Provide the students with the role of materials in energy storage technologies.
The students are expected to gain knowledge on:
1.  Different modes of  energy conversion and storage with respect to scale, cost,  energy  and
2.  Structure processing property performance relationship of the  energy materials developed
Introduction:  Overview  of  electrochemical  energy  storage  and  conversion  devices,  Basic
terminology, Classification, Applications. (Offered by Physics) (Lectures: 2)
Batteries:  Introduction  to  Batteries,  primary  and  secondary  batteries,  Solid-state  and  liquid
electrolyte  batteries,  Lead  acid  batteries,  Nickel  Cadmium  Batteries,  Li-ion  and  Li-Polymer
batteries,  Intercalation  and  Conversion  Materials,  Battery  Capacity  and  Life,  Micro-batteries,
Thin film batteries, Materials for high-energy density 2D and 3D batteries (Offered by Physics)
Fuel  cells:  Principle  and  types,  performance  characteristics  and  efficiency  of  fuel  cell,  Proton
exchange fuel cells, Solid oxide fuel cells, Types of solid oxide fuel cells: High and intermediate
temperature, Single chamber solid oxide fuel cells. Polymer electrolyte fuel cells, Acid/alkaline
fuel cells, phosphoric acid fuel cell, molten carbonate fuel cell, fuel cell stack, hydrogen storage
(Offered by MT) (Lectures: 10)
Supercapacitors:  Difference  between  Capacitor  and  Supercapacitor,  Electrolyte  and  Electrode
materials,  electric  double  layer  capacitors,  Challenges  and  Applications  (Offered  by  MT)
1.  Cheong  K.  Y.,  Impellizzeri  G  and  Fraga  M.  A.  (2018)  Emerging  Materials  for  Energy
Conversion and Storage, 1st Edition, Elsevier
1. Rosen M. A. (2012) Energy Storage, Nova
Online Course Materials
1. Prof. Bazant M., MITopencourseware: Electrochemical Energy Systems, MIT Course Number
10.626 / 10.426, https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/chemical-engineering/10-626-
2. Prof. Pal K., Selection Of Nanomaterials For Energy Harvesting And Storage Application,
NPTEL Course Material, Mechanical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee,
Mechanical Engineering, electrical
Engineering, Civil & Infrastructure
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
L-T-P[C]  3–0–0 [3]
1.  Describe the  role  of the hydropower and working principles of  small- and large-scale
2.  Provide overview of the practical design of hydropower structures including mechanical
and electrical equipment.
3.  Introduce students to geotechnical, mechanical, and electrical engineering aspects of
conventional large dams.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Formulate  and  analyze  technical  solutions  for  design,  and  operation  of  hydropower
2.  Analyze a technical problems connected to the hydroelectric power industry.
3.  Compare the design of dams, mechanical, electric and electronic equipment.
4.  Implement design details of embankment dam, components of face rockfill dams and
concrete gravity dam, and basis of dam foundation design.
Fractal 1 (ME)
Introduction: Hydropower resource, potential and market, Hydropower sites, Types of
hydropower plants. (Lectures: 2)
  Large  hydropower:  Run-of-River  Hydropower,  Dams  and  Barrages,  Dam  types
  Hydropower  turbines,  Classification  and  working  principles,  Impulse  and  reaction
turbines; Propeller and Kaplan Turbines, Deriaz turbine. (Lectures: 5)
  Tidal power: Tidal barrage power plant, operation and design, Tidal lagoons, Barrage
construction techniques, Turbine speed regulation. (Lectures: 4)
Fractal 2 (EE)
  Hydropower  Generators:  Generator  poles  and  rotational  speed,  orientation,  types
  Small  Hydropower:  Small,  mini,  and  micro  hydropower  plant,  generators  for  small
hydro power plants (Lectures: 3)
  Electronic Control of Hydropower: Phase angle control, relay switched on loads, Mark-
Space ratio controller (Lectures: 3)
  Pumped  Storage  Hydropower:  Pumped  storage  hydropower  plant,  turbines,  motors
  Hydropower House: Classification, equipment, accessories, layout, components, sizing
Fractal 2 (CIE)
●  Site  investigation  techniques:  Geological  environments:  rocks  and  soils;  Geological,
geotechnical, and geophysical investigation; Trenching and drilling (Lectures: 2)
●  Design of embankment dams: freeboard; Slope protection; Embankment crest details;
Dimensioning  and  tolerances;  Conduits  through  embankments;  Flood  control
structures;  Seismic  stability  analysis  of  embankments;  Liquefaction  of  dam
embankments and foundations. (Lectures: 4)
●  Concrete face rockfill dams and Concrete gravity dams: Selection of dam types; Rockfill
zones; Concrete face; Construction aspects; Settlements, and displacements of the face
slab, and joints; Leakage; Strength and compressibility of rock foundations; Strength
of  concrete  in  the  dam;  Strength  of  the  concrete-rock  contact;  Silt  and  ice  load
●  Foundation preparation: General foundation preparation for embankment dams; Cutoff
foundation  for  embankment  dams;  Width  and  batter  slopes;  Slope  modification;
Foundation preparation for concrete gravity dams. (Lectures: 4)
  Breeze,P., (2018), Hydropower, Academic Press
  Pandey,B.,  Karki,A.,  (2017),  Hydroelectric  Energy,  Renewable  Energy  and  the
Environment, CRC Press
  Robin  Fell,  Patrick  MacGregor,  David  Stapledon,  Graeme  Bell  (2005)  Geotechnical
Engineering of Dams. A. A. Balkema publishers. ISBN 04 1536 440 x.
Selected Topics in Distributed Generation  Number
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.   Provide  salient  concepts  of  DG  operation  and  control  in  both  grid  connected  and
2.    Provide  exposure  to  the  challenges  related  to  stability,  grid  integration,  and  ancillary
services in distributed generation
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Develop control schemes for distributed generators to  operate in grid connected and
2. Understand various challenges and propose solutions related to stability, grid integration
and ancillary services in distributed generation
Distributed generation: Introduction, DG types, concept of inertia and frequency response,
flexibility issues, ramping issues (3 lectures)
Control of distributed generation: Modelling and control of distributed energy sources such
as solar PV, wind energy, diesel generator (10 lectures)
Microgrids: Concept of microgrid, microgrid benefits, typical structures and configurations
of  various  microgrids  (3  lectures),  control  of  converters  in  DC  and  AC  microgrids  (4
lectures),  active  and  reactive  power  control,  voltage  and  frequency  control  of  inverter-
based sources (3 lectures), virtual synchronous generators (2 lectures)
Stability: Stability issues with weak grid integration and in microgrid operation (4 lectures)
Other  challenges  in  grid  integration:  Power  quality  requirements,  DG  support  under
abnormal grid conditions (3 lectures), issues related to islanding and reverse power flow,
network congestion (5 lectures), and protection (2 lectures)
Ancillary services: Ancillary services with DGs, control for ancillary services, virtual power
plants (3 lectures)
1.  Bollean,M.H.J., Hasan,F., (2011),  Integration of Distributed  Generation in the Power
Systems, Willey-IEEE India Press
2.  Masters,G.M., (2004), Renewable and Efficient Electric Power Systems, John Wiley &
3.  Bevrani,H., Francois,B., Ise,T., (2017), Microgrid Dynamics and Control, John Wiley &
The instructor will:
Advanced Waste Water
M.Tech., M.Tech-Ph.D., Ph.D.
L-T-P (C)  3-0-2 (4)
Impart comprehensive knowledge of industrial and municipal wastewater.
1.  Discuss mechanism and methodologies for waste water treatment.
2.  Discuss case studies
The students are expected to have the:
1  Comprehensive knowledge of the wastewater treatment.
1.  Knowledge  of  advanced  methodologies  such  as  waste  water  management,  recycle
Introduction: Waste water engineering: an overview, characterisation of waste water and
monitoring of industrial and municipal waste water, environmental impacts of waste water
constituents. (4 lectures)
Conventional Waste Water Treatment: Existing unit operations and processes, basic
philosophy of water treatment plants; physio-chemical treatment methods: (i) Screening,
(ii) conventional filtration (iii) coagulation, (iv) flocculation, (v) floatation (vi) Clari-
flocculation (vii) sedimentation, (viii) sand filtration, etc. (10 lectures)
Aerobic and Anaerobic Suspended and Attached Growth Waste Water Treatment Processes:
Aerated  lagoon,  activated  sludge  systems,  trickling  filter,  sequential  batch  reactor,
bed bioreactors, Up-flow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) and hybrid Up-flow Anaerobic
Sludge Blanket (UASB) reactors. (8 lectures)
Advanced Treatment Processes: Membrane Filtration, reverse osmosis, ultrafiltration,
nanofiltration and electrodialysis; wet air oxidation, adsorption and ion-exchange; Wet-
land and root-zone treatment of industrial and municipal wastes; Design of sludge drying
beds, thermal and biological processes for sludge and land fillings. Membrane Reactors,
New Technologies for Waste Water Disinfection. (12 lectures)
Water Recycling and Reuse: Different unit operations for water recycling depending on end
use, recovery of valuables from waste water, zero liquid discharge (ZLD). (8 lectures)
Waste Water Treatment Design Lab (28 hrs)
Clarifier; Aerator; Sand filtration system; Municipal waste water system; Grey water
treatment system; Sewage water treatment system; Industrial waste water systems; Pond
1.  Burton F.L., Tchobanoglous G., Stensel H.D., 2017, Waste Water Engineering
Treatment and Reuse, 4thed.,Tata McGraw-Hill.
2.  Arceivala S.J. and Asolekar S.R., 2007, Wastewater Treatment for Pollution Control
and Reuse, 3rd Ed., Tata McGraw Hill.
1.  Henze M., van-Loosdrecht M.C.M., Ekama G.A. and Brdjanovic D., 2008, Biological
Wastewater Treatment: Principles, Modelling and Design, IWA publishing.
2.  Sincero A.P. and Sincero G.A., 1996, Environmental Engineering – A Design
Online Course Material
1.  Tiwari M K, Wastewater treatment and recycling, NPTEL course material,
Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Kharagpur,
Fuel Cell Technology
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1. Provide in-depth knowledge about the fuel cell technology.
2. Discuss the fundamentals of deferent fuel cells.
The students are expected to have:
1.  Comprehensive knowledge about fuel cell technology.
2.  The ability to design different types of cells.
Basics  of  Cell  Technology:  Principles  of  fuel  cells,  Fuel  cells  systems  and  staking,
applications,  performance  study,  electrochemistry  and  thermodynamics  of  fuel  cells.  [6
Fuel  cell  kinetics:  electrode  kinetics,  catalysis  in  fuel  cells,  activation  energy,  reaction
equilibrium, exchange currents and electrocatalysis, design principles of catalyst-electrode,
Sabatier principle. [6 lectures]
Charge and mass transport: resistance and voltage loss, electrical driving force, fuel cell
electrolytes, diffusive and conductive transport, convective transport. [6 lectures]
Modelling and characterization: Theory and governing equations, basic fuel cell model, 1D
model, CFD application in modelling, characterization techniques of fuel cells, physical and
chemical methods. [6 lectures]
Proton-exchange  membrane  (PEM)  Fuel  Cell:  Cell  components,  material  properties  and
processes;  membrane  layer,  current  collector  and  gas  delivery,  catalyst  action,  design
issues, high temperature and reverse operation, degradation and lifetime. [9 lectures]
Other Fuel cells: Solid Oxide Fuel Cell(SOFC), Phosphoric acid fuel cell (PAFC), Alkaline fuel
cell (AFC), Solid acid fuel cell (SAFC), Molten-carbonate fuel cell (MCFC), Microbial fuel cell,
etc., Environmental impact of fuel cells, fuel cell vehicles, building-integrated fuel cells. [9
1.  Andrew  L.  Dicks,  David  A.  J.  Rand,  2018,  Fuel  Cell  Systems  Explained,  Willey,  Third
2. Ryan O'Hayre, Suk-Won Cha, Whitney Colella, Fritz B. Prinz, 2005, Fuel Cell
Fundamentals, Willey, Third Edition.
1. Bent Sorensen, 2012, Hydrogen and Fuel Cells: Emerging Technologies and
Applications, Elsevier, Second Edition.
2. Frano Barbir, 2013, PEM Fuel Cells: Theory and Practice, Elsevier Inc., Second Edition.
3.  Ryan  O'Hayre,  Suk-Won  Cha,  Whitney  Colella,  Fritz  B.  Prinz,  2009,  Fuel  Cell
Fundamentals, Wiley, Second Edition.
Electrochemical Conversion and Storage
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Impart the knowledge of electrochemical engineering, Working principle, materials
and characterization of electrochemical conversion for energy production.
2.  Introduce the mechanism to store energy.
The students are expected to have:
1.  Comprehensive knowledge about electrochemical process.
2.  Advanced knowledge about energy production via electrochemical process and store
Introduction:  basics  of  electrochemical  Conversions  and  Storage,  devices  and  Principles,
over view of fuel cells, Photo-electrochemical conversion and cells. [5 lectures]
Batteries  for  energy  storage:  primary  and  secondary  batteries,  limitations  of  battery
performance,  Lead  Acid  Battery,  Nickel-Metal  Hydride  (Ni-MH)  Rechargeable  Batteries,
Lithium-Ion Rechargeable Batteries, Liquid- Redox Rechargeable Batteries. [10 lectures]
Electrochemical  supercapacitor:  introduction  to  supercapacitor,  types  and  structures,
Transport  Properties,  electric  double-layer  capacitor,  physical/elcrochemical  processes  in
supercapacitors, diffuse layer, pseudocapacitor. [11 lectures]
Electrodialysis:  introduction  to  electrodialysis  and  reverse  electrodialysis,  control
parameters, effect of flow structure. [4 lectures]
Electrochemical  Hydrogen  Production:  Introduction  to  electrolysis,  electrolysers  and
hydrogen  production,  PEM  water  electrolysers,  electrochemical  reforming  of  alcohol,
perspectives of hydrogen electroproduction techniques. [12 lectures]
1. Vladimir S. Bagotsky, Alexander M. Skundin, Yurij M. Volfkovich, 2015, Electrochemical
Power Sources: Batteries, Fuel Cells, and Supercapacitors, Wiley.
2. Jiujun Zhang, Lei Zhang, Hansan Liu, Andy Sun, Ru-Shi Liu, 2011, Electrochemical
Technologies for Energy Storage and Conversion, Wiley-VCH, First Edition.
3. Allen J. Bard, Larry R. Faulkner, 2001, Electrochemical Methods: Fundamentals and
Applications, John Wiley & Sons, Second Edition.
1. Keith Scott, 2020, Electrochemical Methods for Hydrogen Production, RSC, UK.
2. Stanley W. Angrist, 1982, Direct Energy Conversion , Allyn and Bacon Inc.
Environmental Aspects of
Civil and Infrastructure
M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D., Ph.D.
1.  To provide basic knowledge of combustion and conversion technologies.
2.  To  make  students  familiar  with  emissions,  pre-  and  post-combustion  control
technologies and waste management techniques.
The students are expected to achieve proficiency in:
1.  Identifying the issues and appropriately choose the right pollution control techniques
for gas and particle phase emissions.
2.  Assessing the efficiency of conventional as well as emerging combustion technologies
targeting pollution reduction.
Introduction: Types of emissions; types of pollutants (SOx, NOx, trace elements and
other Coal Combustion Products) and their impacts; Emission standards (Lectures: 2)
Combustion Technologies: Gasification; Types of gasifier; Gasification vs Combustion;
Fluidized  bed  combustion  (FBC);  Concept  of  Integrated  Gasification  Combined  Cycle
(ICC); IGCC vs pulverized coal combustion (PCC) (Lectures: 5)
Pre-  and  Post-combustion  control:  Flue  gas  desulfurization  (FGD);  NOx  and  Sox
treatments (low NOx burners, flue gas recirculation and SCR); Particulate matter control
systems (Electrostatic precipitators, mechanical collectors, and other devices (particulate
scrubbers, baghouse filters, fabric filters etc.)) (Lectures: 5)
Ash  handling:  Ash  (fly  ash,  bottom  ash,  pond  ash,  FBC  ash,  boiler  slag,  FGD  ash);
Scrubber slurry; Ash handling and sustainability practices, leaching aspects. (Lectures:
1.  Fuels and Fuel Technology, F. Peter, A. Wheatan & Co. Ltd., First Edition, 1965.
2.  Fuels and Combustion, S. Sarkar, Orient Longman, Second Edition, 1990.
3.  Hydrogen and Syngas Production and Purification Technologies, Ke Liu, C. Song, and
V. Subramani, John Wiley & Sons, 2010.
4.  The Chemistry and Technology of Coal, J. G. Speight, CRC Press, 2013.
Online course Material
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1. Provide knowledge related to infrastructure in various modes of power  transmission
such as underground, marine, and overhead.
2. Provide knowledge related to design, installation, and maintenance of the transmission
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.    Select  appropriate  transmission  infrastructure  needed  for  transmission  of  electric
power based on various factors.
2.  Design, install, and maintain power transmission infrastructure.
Overhead  transmission  lines:  Overhead  line  routing,  aerial  survey,  ground  survey,
overhead  line  foundations,  soil  investigation,  foundation  types,  foundation  design,
support structures, steel lattice towers, tower testing, overhead line fittings, suspension
clamps, sag adjusters, bi-metal connectors, conductor loads, lightning, surge diverters,
insulator arcing horn co-ordination, aerodynamic phenomena, transmission voltage level
clearances, wooden poles, distribution voltage clearances, overhead line maintenance,
environmental considerations (18 lectures)
Underground  cables:  Types  of  cable,  insulation  and  conductor  materials,  air  cable
ampacity,  underground  cable  ampacity,  short  circuit  and  its  effect,  thermal  &
electromechanical  stresses,  cable  termination  and  joints,  pulling  the  cable,  installing
cable racks, conduits, cable supports, cable tray and trenches, cable testing, steps for
fault location, fault location methods (12 lectures)
Marine  cables:  Introduction,  marine  survey,  cable  routing,  cable  system  design
parameters,  cable  design  parameters,  cable  accessories,  cable  installation,  cable
materials  &  accessories,  cable  joints  and  terminations,  inspections  and  testing,
maintenance and failure investigation (12 lectures)
1.  Kiessling,F.,  Nefzger,P.,  Nolasco,J.F.,  Kaintzyk,U.,  (2003),  Overhead  Power  Lines
Planning Design Construction, 4th Edition, Springer
2.  Ganguli,S.K., Kohli,V., (2016), Power Cable Technology, CRC Press
3.  Worzyk,T.,  (2009),  Submarine  Power  Cables  Design,  Installation,  Repair,
Environmental Aspects, Springer
4.  Bayliss,C.,  Hardy,B.,  (2012),  Transmission  and  Distribution  Electrical  Engineering,
4th Edition, Newnes publications
Self Learning Material
Detailed Course Content of M. Tech Elective Courses (ME)
Department  Electrical Engineering
Power System Protection
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will provide knowledge of:
1.  Various protection schemes and their applications in power industry
2.  Relay coordination, instrument transformers
3.  Numerical protection schemes based on signal processing techniques
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design/propose  protection  schemes  for  various  power  system  components  based  on
digital signal processing
2. Design relay coordination systems in distribution and transmission
Overview  of  Power  System  Protection:  Architecture  of  protection  system,  evolution  of
relays, zones of protections, concept of primary and back-up protection (2 lectures)
Overcurrent Protection: Principles of fuse and overcurrent protection and application to
feeder and motor protection, relay coordination in distribution system (6 lectures)
Distance  Protection:  Principles  of  distance  relaying  (2  lectures)  and  application  to
transmission system protection, relay coordination (5 lectures)
Differential Protection: Principles of differential protection (2 lectures) and application to
transformer, bus bar and generator armature winding protection (5 lectures)
Introduction  to  Digital  Relaying:  Sampling,  concept  of  moving  window,  signal
conditioning, signal processing (4 lectures)
Instrument Transformer: Current and voltage transformers in power system protection
Circuit  breakers:  Arc  initiation  and  quenching,  oil  circuit  breakers,  air  blast  circuit
breakers vacuum circuit breakers, SF6  circuit breakers (5 lectures),  current chopping,
reverse recovery voltage (3 lectures)
Lightning arresters: Principle of operation and types (2 lectures)
1. Singh, L.P., (2017), Digital Protection: Protective Relaying from Electromechanical to
Microprocessor, 2nd Edition, New Age International Publications
2.  Ram,B.,  Vishwakarma,D.N.,  (2017),  Power  System  Protection  and  Switchgear,  2nd
Edition, Tata McGraw Hill Publications.
3.  Phadke,A.G., Thorp,J.S., (2009), Computer relaying for Power System, 2nd Edition,
John Wiley & Sons Ltd. Publications
Self Learning Material
1.  Soman,S.A.,    Power  System  Protection,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
Electrical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay,
Department  Electrical Engineering
Cyber-Physical Security in Smart Grid
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1. Provide exposure to the various layers of smart grid architecture and security issues related
to vital components of smart grid
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand various cyber layers of smart grid and the threats to the physical components,
and design a secure system
Introduction:  Physical  components  of  a  grid,  communication  in  smart  grid,  self-
monitoring, self-healing, vulnerabilities of smart grid, cyber-physical security (5 lectures)
Security Architecture of Smart Grids: Security architecture of smart Grid and its layers,
typical  SCADA  network  levels,  conceptual  control  system  with  layering,  robust  and
resilient  control,  secure  network  routing,  management  of  information  security,  user
patching  (6 lectures)
Advanced Metering Infrastructure and Security Issues: Smart meters, customer gateway,
AMI communication network, AMI head-end, AMI security threats, interactions, malicious
code  planted  in  the  system,  denial  of  service,  insider  attacks,  unauthorized  access  (4
SCADA  System  Security:  Introduction  to  SCADA,  Security  Issues  in  SCADA,  Public
Information  Availability,  Platform  Vulnerabilities,  Network  Configuration  Vulnerabilities,
Network Perimeter Vulnerabilities, DNP3 Threats (5 lectures)
Plug-in  Electric  Vehicle  (PEV)  Security  Issues:  Introduction  to  PEV  Security,  Privacy  of
movement, Secure payment, Critical Infrastructure and Physical Security, Communication
issues in PEVs (4 lectures)
Smart Grid Domain Security: IEEE standards for smart grid security, IEEE 802.11, IEEE
802.15.4, IEEE 802.16, Bluetooth and BLE/BT5.0, ZigBee, Z-Wave, Gateway Component,
FMEA, STAMP, HAZOP, Smart Grid Information Security (SGIS), SGIS Risk Impact Level
(SGIS-RIL) (6 lectures)
Blockchain  for  Smart  Grid:  Blockchain:  Smart  contract,  applications  of  blockchain
technology  to  energy;  Energy  trading:    Transition  towards  blockchain-based  electricity
trading market, Internet of Energy (IoE);   Distributed Energy Resources: Decentralized
operation of interdependent power and energy networks based on Blockchain and security,
Electric vehicles: Blockchain for decentralized optimization of energy sources: EV charging
coordination  via  blockchain-based  charging  power  quota  trading,    Microgrid:  microgrid
monitoring and control using blockchain. (12 lectures)
1.  Hossain,E.,  Han,Z.,  Poor,H.V.,  (2012),  Smart  Grid  Communications  and  Networking,
Cambridge University Press
2.  Berger,L.T., Iniewski,K., (2012), Smart Grid Applications, Communications, and Security,
John Wiley and Sons Publications
3. Shafie-khan,M., (2020), Blockchain-based Smart Grids, Academic Press
Self Learning Material
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the student with an extended knowledge of the basic principles and recent
advances in Energy harvesting technologies for low-power applications including
self-powered or autonomous systems.
2.  Provide the students with the role of materials in energy harvesting technologies
with a focus on miniaturized and microfabricated devices.
The students will:
1.  Develop  an  understanding  of  basic  principle,  concept,  working  mechanism  and
applications of various energy harvesting devices.
2.  Develop an understanding to design new energy harvesting systems.
Micro Photovoltaic Module Energy Harvesting: p-n Junction and Crystalline Si Solar Cells,
Amorphous Silicon Solar Cell, CIGS and CdTe Solar Cell Development, Polymer Solar Cell,
Dye-Sensitized  Solar  Cells  (DSSC),  Perovskite  Solar  Cells,  Monolithically  Integration  of
Solar  Cells  with  IC,  Low-Power  Micro  Photovoltaic  Systems,  Maximum  Power  Point
Tracking (Lectures : 14)
Mechanical  Energy  Harvesting:  Energy  Harvesting  from  Macro  to  Micro  to  Nano,
Piezoelectric  MEMS  Energy  Harvesters,  Nano-Piezoelectric  Generator,  Piezoelectric
Cantilever  Generator,  Piezoelectric  Transducers.  New-generation  Triboelectric
Nanogenerators. (Lectures: 8)
Thermal  Energy  Harvesting:  Overview  of  Nanoscale  Heat  Conduction  and  the  Seebeck
Effect,  Thermoelectric  energy harvesting and Power Generation, Thermoelectric figures
of  merit,  Novel  nanostructured  Thermoelectric  materials  and  devices,  Thermal  energy
harvesting  using  pyroelectric  materials,  Thermodynamic  cycles  for  Pyroelectric  energy
harvesting, Nanostructured and micro-scale materials and devices. (Lectures: 14)
1. Briand, D., Yeatman, E., Roundy, S., Micro Energy Harvesting Wiley, 2015.
2. Shashank, P., Inman, D. J., Energy Harvesting Technologies, Springer, 2009.
1.  Elvin, N., Erturk, A., Advances in Energy Harvesting Methods, Springer, 2013.
2.  Jaffe, R., and Taylor, W., Physics of Energy, MIT open course,
Preparatory Course Material
4.  Pal, K., Selection of Nanomaterials for Energy harvesting and Energy Storage
Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Process
Department  Chemical Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  understanding  of  Ocean  Thermal  Energy  Conversion  (OTEC)  cycles,  hybrid
The students are expected to have the:
1.  Proper knowledge about Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC) cycles and hybrid
2.  Ability to understand OTEC process design challenges.
Ocean  as  a  Heat  Engine:  Concepts  of  ocean  thermal  energy,  Favourable  temperature
difference, OTEC history. (2 lectures)
OTEC Cycles: Closed OTEC cycles, Open OTEC cycle, Flow diagrams, Comparison of OTEC
Cycles, Products of  OTEC: electricity, desalinated water,  cold water for air-conditioning
etc., Hybrid OTEC systems. (6 lectures)
OTEC  Process  Design:  System  components,  Heat  exchangers,  evaporators,  Pumps,
Turbines, Piping. (6 lectures)
1.  Takahashi, Patrick and Trenka, Andrew, (1996) Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion, Ist
1. Lockerby,R.W., (1981) Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC), US Department of
Energy, United States.
Optics for Solar Energy Applications
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The students will gain
1.  Knowledge to understand the issues related to optics in solar thermal applications.
2.  Knowledge in designing and analyzing optics for imaging and non-imaging optics.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Show a basic familiarity with the Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) plants.
2.  To design as individual optical concentrators and Optical Field Design.
Basics of Maxwell equation: Review of Electromagnetic theory  ( 2 Lectures)
Wave  Optics:  Polarization  (Brewster  Angle)  and  Fresnel  Coefficients,  Interference,
Diffraction and Fermat Principle in Optics (5 Lectures)
Ray  Optics:  Optical  Momentum,  The  Eikonal  Equation  ,  The  Ray  Equation,  Point  Spread
Function (PSF), Optical Transfer Function (OTF)  (6  Lectures)
Design of Two-Dimensional Concentrators: Thin lens formula, Concentrators for Sources at
a Finite Distance and Tubular Receivers. (6  Lectures)
Radiation  and  Detectors:  Black-body  Radiation,  Radiometry,  Photometry,  and  Radiation
Heat  Transfer,  Radiation  detectors:  Spectrometer,  Power  meter  and  Flux  meter  (  7
Sun-earth geometry:  Derivation of incidence angles and tracking algorithms for the
principal solar tracking modes and  Derivation of projected incidence angles for stationary
concentrators ( 3 Lectures)
Design  of  Nonimaging  Optics:  Imaging  Properties  of  the  Design  Method  Nonimaging
Applications, Conservation of Étendue, The Winston–Welford Design Method, Tailored Edge
Ray  Concentrators  Designed  for  Maximum,  Concentration  ,  Tailored  Edge,  Ray
Concentrators  Designed  for  Lower  Concentration  ,  Fresnel  Primaries  and  Applications  of
Nonimaging Concentrators. (7 Lectures)
Applications  to  Solar  Energy  Concentration  high  concentration:  Design  of  Solar  thermal
fields, Design of Heliostat field, Parabolic Trough(PT),  Linear Fresnel Reflector (LFR)  and
Design of Compound Parabolic Collectors (CPC), Ray Tracing Technique for Field Design ( 6
1. Welford W. T and Winston, R., High Collection Non-Imaging Optics, Academic Press 1989.
2. Hecht, E., Optics, 4th  Ed., Pearson Education 2002.
1. Born, M and Wolf, E., Principles of Optics, 7th Ed., Cambridge 1999.
2. Pedrotti, F. L.,  Pedrotti, L.M  and Pedrotti, S. L., Introduction to Optics, 3 rd Ed., Pearson
3. Donald C. O’Shea: Elements of Modern Optical Design. John Wiley & Sons, 1985
4.  Julio Chaves: Introduction to Nonimaging Optics. CRC Press, 2008.
Preparatory Course Material
The Instructor will:
Theory of Vibrations
M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D., Ph.D.
Basic knowledge of mechanical
1.  Provide the approach adopted for analyzing the structural dynamic characteristics and
dynamic response of uniform and non-uniform structural elements, like beams.
2.  The approach is applicable for structural dynamic analysis of any structure.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Analyze the vibration characteristics of non-uniform beams.
2.  Thorough  understanding  of  approximate  methods  used  in  the  structural  dynamic
Introduction:  Discrete  and  continuous  systems,  SDOF,  Types  of  Damping,  Frequency
response, Time response, Beating phenomenon, Response to impulse loading, Convolution
integral, Numerical integration, Newmark-β method, Wilson-θ method [Lectures 9].
Rayleigh’s  Method:  Approximate  evaluation  of  natural  frequency,  improved  Rayleigh’s
method [Lectures 4].
Stiffness and flexibility influence coefficients, finite element stiffness of beam elements, Static
condensation [Lectures 5].
Hamilton’s principle, Lagrange’s equations [Lectures 3].
Linear  conservative  natural  systems:  Symmetric  eigenvalue  problem,  Modal  analysis,
Systems with proportional damping, structural damping (complex stiffness) [Lectures 4].
Continuous  parameter  systems:  Longitudinal  vibration  of  bars,  bending  vibration  of
beams, torsion vibration [Lectures 4].
Differential  Eigenvalue  Problem:  Admissible  function,  Comparison  function,  Eigen
function [Lectures 2].
Positive definite system, self adjoint property [Lectures 2].
Natural modes of vibration: Mode shapes and natural frequencies [Lectures 2].
Approximate methods: Transfer Matrix method, Rayleigh’s quotient, Rayleigh-Ritz method,
Galerkin method [Lectures 5].
Response to excitation: Mode summation, Mode acceleration [Lectures 2].
1.  Meirovitch, L., Principles and Techniques of Vibrations, 3rd Edition, Prentice Hall
2.  Meirovitch, L., Analytical Methods in Vibration Analysis, Macmillan
3.  Clough, R.W., and Penzien, J., Dynamics of Structures, McGraw Hill
Online course Material
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B.Tech., M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  To familiarize students with the dynamics of offshore environment.
2.  To introduce methods of soil and site investigation.
3.  To introduce designs, types, and analyses of piled foundation, shallow foundation, and
L-T-P-D [C]  3–0–0 [3]
4.  To introduce specific consideration of soil structure interaction of on-bottom and pipelines
5.  To provide overview of geo-hazards.
1.  Detailed knowledge of geophysical, geotechnical investigation, laboratory test and use
of centrifuge modelling.
2.  Understanding of soil response under static and dynamic loads.
3.  Knowledge of the analysis and design of shallow foundation, piled foundation, anchoring
system and on-bottom pipelines and risers.
4.  Understanding of marine slope failure and slides.
Offshore  environment:    Marine  geology,  Plate  tectonics,  Continental  self,  Marine-
sediments, Geotechnical characteristics, Ocean wind and waves, currents, wave theories,
hydrodynamic forces (Lectures 7).
Offshore  site  and  soil  investigation:  Geophysical  and  Geotechnical  investigations;  Soil
classifications and tests- undrained tri-axial compression test, undrained strength; cyclic
loading test, failure under cyclic loading, Centrifuge modelling [Lectures 7].
Offshore  foundations:  Shallow  and  deep  foundations  and  their  applications,  Design  of
offshore foundations as per API and DNV codes, Pile drivability and dynamic monitoring,
Capacity  of  driven  piles,  Installation  piled  and  shallow  foundations  in  fine  grained  and
permeable sediments, Stability of shallow foundations, Dynamic analysis of vertical and
inclined  pile  foundations,  Impedance  function  of  piles  and  frequency  domain  analysis
Anchoring systems: Buoyant platforms and mooring systems, Mooring line analysis and
forces on anchors, Types of anchors and their design;  API and DNV code provisions for
anchor design, Dynamic effects on anchor and uplift of anchors, Dynamically penetrating
anchors [Lectures 7].
Pipeline and riser geotechnics: Geotechnical inputs to pipeline design; Design issues and
code provisions; Soil structure interaction for on-bottom pipelines and risers, Secondary
stabilization [Lecture 6]
Offshore geo-hazard: Types of marine geo-hazard and their identification, Submarine
slope failures and slides, probabilistic hazard analysis [Lectures 5].
1.  Mark  Randolph,  Susan  Gourvenec  (2011).  Offshore  Geotechnical  Engineering.  Spon
Press (Taylor & Francis), ISBN13: 978-0-415-47744-4(hbk).
2.  Paolo  Boccotti  (2000).  Wave  Mechanics  for  Ocean  Engineering  (1st  Ed),  Elsevier
Science. ISBN:  9780080543727 (eBook)
Rock Mechanics and Rock
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
L-T-P-D [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1.  To  understand  fundamentals  of  stress-train  behavior  of  isotropic  and  anisotropic
rocks under different conditions
2.  To understand limits of rock strength and analysis of rock failure conditions
3.  To understand the influence anisotropy under at different scales
4.  Introduction of use of rock mechanics in tunneling, mining engineering, and reservoir
1.  Knowledge of geological and engineering classification of rocks.
2.  Detailed knowledge of failure criteria and influence of ambient conditions
3.  Knowledge of laboratory- and field-based stress measurement techniques
4.  Understanding of isotropic and anisotropic rock deformation
5.  Knowledge of tunneling in isotropic and anisotropic rocks
6.  Knowledge of natural and artificial support system in underground excavations
7.  Knowledge of wellbore stability and hydraulic fracturing
Classification and index properties of rocks:  Geological classification of rocks; Index
properties of rocks; Porosity; Density; Hydraulic conductivity and permeability; Strength;
Slaking and durability; Sonic velocity; Classification of rock masses [Lectures 4].
Rock strength and failure criteria: Modes of failure; Laboratory strength tests; Stress-
strain  behaviors  in  compression;  Application  of  complete  stress-strain  curve;  The  Mohr-
Coulomb failure criterion; Hoek-Brown failure criterion; Effect of size, water, and anisotropy
on strength [Lectures 6].
Initial  stresses  in  rocks  and  their  measurement:  Estimating  the  initial  stresses;
Techniques for measurement of in-situ stresses; Determination of SHmin from leak-off tests;
Wellbore failure and the magnitude of SHmax; Drilling-induced tensile fracture and magnitude
of SHmax; Estimation of rock strength from breakouts [Lectures 5].
Planes of weakness in rocks: Joint orientation; Joint roughness; Relationship between
displacement and strength; Effect of water pressure [Lectures 5].
Deformability of rocks: Elastic and non-elastic behavior; Measurement of deformability
properties  by  static  tests;  Measurement  of  deformability  properties  by  dynamic
measurement; Fractured rock; Influence of time on rock deformation [Lectures 6].
Rock mechanics for tunneling: Opening in competent rocks; Horizontally layered rocks;
Rock  with  inclined  layers;  Plastic  behavior  around  tunnels;  Time  dependent  behavior  of
tunnels [Lectures 5].
Rock mechanics for mining engineering: Natural support: Pillar design approach, Pillar
strength equation, Model of pillar failure, Pillar stabilization; Artificial support: Rock support
interaction analysis, Classification, Primary reinforcement, Secondary support system; Rock
blasting process, control, and optimization [Lectures 5].
Rock  mechanics  for  hydrocarbon  reservoir:  Tectonic  stress  field;  Pore  pressure
measurement;  Mechanical  properties  and  stress  data  from  laboratory  analysis  and  field
data; Concepts of critically stressed crust; Basics of hydraulic fracturing; Wellbore stability
1.  Richard E. Goodman (1989) Introduction to Rock Mechanics (2nd Ed). Wiley. ISBN-
2.  Mark D. Zoback. (2007) Reservoir Geomechncs. Cambridge University Press. ISBN-
3.  Debasis Deb, Abhiram Kumar Verma (2016) Fundamentals and Applications of Rock
Mechanics. PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd. ISBN-978-81-203-5182-0.
Online course Material
1.  V. B. Maji. Rock Mechanics – Web course. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105106055/
Stability of slopes
Department  Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Offered for  B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  To understand the influence of geology, rockmass properties, and hydrology on the
stability of slopes.
2.  To present basic types of analytical and numerical methods of slope stability analysis.
3.  To introduce methods and instruments of slope monitoring and stabilization.
4.  To enable planning and design of preventive measures, and redesign of failed slopes.
1.  Knowledge  of  data  collection  from  field-work,  aerial  photography,  geophysics,  and
2.  Knowledge  of  kinematic  analysis  of  slopes  using  geological  data  and  stereographic
3.  Knowledge  of  kinetic  analysis  of  slopes  and  influence  of  critical  geometrical  and
4.  Knowledge  of  available  methods  of  slope  stabilization  by  reinforcements  and  rock
5.  Knowledge  of  instrumental  facilities  to  monitor  slope  movement  and  subsequent
for  slope  analysis:  Geological  structures;  Orientation  of
discontinuities; Introduction to geological maps; Identification of modes of slope instability
Site  investigation  and  geological  data  collection:  Site  reconnaissance;  Geological
mapping;  Spacing,  persistence,  and  roughness  of  discontinuities;  Probabilistic  analysis  of
structural geology; Drilling and logging. [Lecture: 4]
Rock strength properties: Scale effect and rock strength; Shear strength of discontinuities;
Laboratory testing of discontinuities; Hoek-Brown strength criterion for fractured rock mass;
Rock durability and compressive strength [Lecture: 4]
Plane  failure:  Conditions  of  plane  failure;  Influence  of  groundwater  on  stability;  Critical
tension crack: identification and influence; Influence of critical slide plane inclination; Analysis
of failure on a rough plane; Reinforcement of a slope; Seismic analysis of slopes [Lecture: 5]
Wedge failure: Conditions of wedge failure; Wedge analysis including cohesion, friction, and
water pressure; Wedge stability chart for friction; Compression wedge analysis [Lecture: 5]
Circular failure: Conditions of circular failure; Methods of analysis; Derivation and use of
circular failure charts; Location of critical slide surface and tension crack; Bishop’s and Janbu’s
method of failure analysis. [Lecture: 6]
Toppling failure: Types of toppling failure; Kinematic analysis of block toppling failure; Limit
equilibrium analysis of toppling [Lecture: 5]
Stabilization  of  slopes:  Stablization  programs:  Rock  slope  Inventory,  Hazard  rating
analysis;  Stabilization  by  rock  reinforcements;  Stabilization  by  rock  removal;  Measures
against rock fall [Lecture: 5]
Movement  monitoring:  Types  of  slope  movement:  Initial  response,  Regressive  and
progressive movements, Long-term creep; Surface monitoring methods; Data interpretation
1.  Duncan C Wyllie, Christopher  W. Mah (2005)  Rock Slope  Engineering,  4th  Ed, Spon
Press (Taylor & Francis Group), ISBN 0–415–28001–X (pbk).
2.  Robin  Chowdhury,  Phil  Flentje,  Gautam  Bhattacharya  (2010)  Geotechnical  Slope
Analysis. CRC Press (Taylor & Francis Group), ISBN: 978-0-415-46974-6 (Hbk).
Wind and Earthquake Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B.Tech, M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D., Ph.D.
1.  To  acquaint  the  students  with  the  fundamental  knowledge  of  wind  and  earthquake
engineering  to  pursue  higher  level  courses/research  on  the  wind  and  earthquake
2.  To provide the requisite information on the above two subjects to the students to work
in design offices.
3.  To impart the back ground materials for pursuing some courses offered in the fields of
1.  Enable the students to apply the knowledge gained in solving practical problems.
2.  Enable  the  students  to  analyze  the  collected  wind  and  earthquake  data  for  providing
systematic inputs to be used in practice.
3.  To make the students capable of using the knowledge gained for wind and earthquake
Atmospheric  wind  circulation,  its  mechanism,  types  of  wind,  wind  measurements,  wind
characteristic,  different  ways  to  express  wind  energy,  inputs  required  for  the  analysis  of
structures, aero dynamic and aero-elastic effects, aero elastic instabilities-flutter, galloping,
torsional divergence, dynamics in the wind codes [lectures 20].
Inside of the earth and tectonic plate movement, major tectonic plates, fault lines, tectonic
theory  of  the  occurrence  of  the  earthquake,  earthquake  hazards,  earthquake  input  for
structural  analysis,  concept  of  the  response  spectrum,  deterministic  seismic  analysis  of
structures, salient features of earthquake code [lectures 20].
1.  Ghosh  S  K  and  Fanella  D  A,  Seismic  and  Wind  Design  of  Concrete  Buildings,
International Code Council-New York (2004).
2.  Taranath  B  S,  Wind  and  Earthquake  Resistant  Buildings:  Structural  Analysis  and
Design, Marcel Dekker, New York (2004).
1.  Datta T K, Seismic Analysis of Structures, John Wiley & Sons, New York (2010).
2.  IS  1893-Part-I,  Criteria  for  Earthquake  Resistant  Design  of  Structures:  General
Provisions and Buildings, Bureau of Indian Standards, New Delhi (2016).
Process safety and Hazards
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide comprehensive knowledge of safety regulations and their practices,
chemical plant hazards and their control, risk assessment and management
principles and techniques and accident analysis.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Identify and distinguish typical sources of risk and hazard in a process plant,
undertake hazard and operability (HAZOP) study.
Safety in Industries: Concepts and definition, storage of dangerous materials, Plant
layout Safety systems, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) incidence
rate,  Fatal  accident  rate  (FAR),  Measures  to  take  during  accidents,  Toxicology  (10
Industrial Hygiene:  Government  regulations,  Industrial  hygiene  and  safety  aspects
related  to  toxicity,  noise,  pressure,  temperature,  vibrations,  radiation  etc,  Evaluation
Methods, Evaluating workers Exposures to dusts, noise. (8 lectures)
Selection  Mechanism:  Technology  and  process  selection,  Scale  of  disaster,  Fire
triangle Ignition, Confined and unconfined explosion, Vapors cloud explosions, Boiling
liquid  expanding  vapor  explosion  (BLEVE),  Dust  explosion,  shock  wave,  Flammability
characteristics  of  liquids  and  vapors,  Minimum  oxygen  concentration  (MOC)  and
Inerting. (8 lectures)
Handling Chemicals and toxicity:  Control of toxic chemicals, Storage and handling
of  flammable  and  toxic  chemical,  Runway  reactions,  Relief  system  risk  and  hazards
management,  Design  to  prevent  Fires  and  Explosions,  Miscellaneous  Design  for
preventing Fires and Explosion. (8 lectures)
Hazards Identification: checklists, Surveys, Hazard and Operability Studies (HAZOP),
Safety reviews. Risk Assessment, Hazard models and risk data. Tackling disasters, plan
for  emergency.  Risk  management  routines,  Emergency  shutdown  systems,  Role  of
computers  in  safety,  Prevention  of  hazard  human  element,  Technology  and  process
selection. (8 lectures)
1.  Daniel A. Crowl and Joseph F. Louvar, 1990, Chemical Process Safety:
Fundamentals with applications, Prentice Hall, Inc.
2.  Lee, F.P., 1983, Loss prevention in the process Industries, Volume 1 and 2
3.  Hoboken, N. J., 2000, Guidelines for Chemical Process Quantitative Risk Analysis,
1.  R. W. King and J. Magid, Industrial Hazards and Safety Handbook, Butterworth,
2.  G. L. Wells, Safety in Process Plant Design, John Wiley and Sons Inc., 1980.
3.  Fawcett,  H.H.  and  W.S.  Wood,  Safety  and  Accident  Prevention  in  Chemical
Operations, 2nd Edition, Wiley-Interscience, New York, 1982.
Advanced Energy Systems
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide comprehensive knowledge about conventional and several advanced energy
The students are expected to have:
1.  Good knowledge about different energy production systems.
Introduction:  Latest  topics  on  energy,  Energy  fuels  for  power  generation,
conventional power generation technology. [6 lectures]
●  Emerging  clean  energy  systems:  Integrated  Gasification  combined  cycle  (IGCC),
Pressurized fluidised bed combustion (PFBC, AFBC). [6 lectures]
●  Heavy fuel based power generation. [3 lectures]
●  Advanced combustion systems. [4 lectures]
●  Understanding Natural gas cycles. [4 lectures]
●  Energy conservation in power plants. [4 lectures]
●  Geological CO2 sequestering. [3 lectures]
●  Natural gas cycles. [4 lectures]
●  Materials-based Solutions to advanced Energy systems: role of advanced material,
general  devices  and  process  approaches,  key  materials  for  advanced  energy
systems, structural material. [8 lectures]
1.  Khartekenko,  N.,  Khartekenko,  V.,  2010,  Advanced  Energy  Systems,  Taylor  &
Francies, Second Edition.
1.  Colin Tong, 2019, Introduction to Materials for Advanced Energy Systems, Springer.
2.  I. Dincer and C. Zamfirescu, 2011,  Sustainable Energy Systems and Applications,
Microfluidic Fuel Cells
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide in-depth knowledge about the fundamentals of microfluidics devices as fuel
The students are expected to have:
1.  Detailed understanding of Microfluidic fuel cell.
Microfluidic  cells:  Introduction,  concept,  classification,  and  challenges,  categories,
Thermodynamic  and  kinetic  of  microfluidic  fuel  cells,  electrochemical  principles  and
transport. [7 lectures]
Designs:  Microfabrication  techniques,  2D,  3D  electrodes  in  microfluidic  fuel  cells,
performance evolution. [3 lectures]
Microfluidics  devises:  co-laminar  streaming,  fuel  cells  with  biocatalysts,  gas  diffusion
electrodes, microfluidics redox batteries, cell arrays and Stacks. [4 lectures]
1.  Erik Kjeang, 2014, Microfluidic Fuel Cells and Batteries, Springer.
Research Articles from different journals.
Air Pollution and Control
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
L-T-P-D [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1. To gain understanding of basic concept of air pollution, its sources and effects on human
health and climate.
2. To  introduce  concepts  of  aerosol  dynamics  used  in  ambient  sampling,  designing
measurement technologies and air quality modeling.
3. To develop understanding of the concepts and strategies for control of particulate matter
and gas-phase pollutants.
4. To provide knowledge of current state of the atmosphere and introduce fundamentals of
pollutant transport and dispersion, and modeling.
The students are expected to achieve proficiency in:
1.  Developing  a  broad  overview  of  local-to-global  scale  pollution  issues  and  their  specific
impact on human health and environment.
2.  Solving problems related to dispersion and air quality modeling
3.  Understanding  the  source  level  air  pollution  issues  and  identify  the  right  control
techniques/measures to meet the desired standard levels.
4.  Computing  the  performance  of  various  unit  operations  and  processes  used  in  the  air
Introduction  to  air  pollution:  Historical  events  [Meuse  River  Valley  1930,  Donora
Pennsylvania 1948, London Smog 1952, Bhopal Gas Tragedy 1984, and related Concepts],
Scales of air pollution, Sources and classification [CAPs and HAPs] of air pollutants, Air quality
and standards, Emission Inventory, The Earth’s atmosphere: Structure and Composition, and
energy balance [Lectures 6].
Aerosol Physics: Fundamentals: Source, Size and Size distribution, Gas and Particle motion:
Brownian  motion,  Diffusion,  Inertia,  External  force  field,  Aerosol  dynamics:  coagulation,
condensation, nucleation, particle measurements and Sampling techniques [Lectures 10].
Emissions  Control  devices:    Removal  of  particles  from  gas  stream:  Settling  chambers,
Cyclone separators, electrostatic precipitation, filtration, wet collectors, collection efficiency;
Removal  of  gases  from  effluents  stream:  Absorption  by  liquids,  adsorption  on  solids,
Examples: SO2 and NOx removal [Lectures 8].
Meteorology:  Atmospheric  meteorology,  Wind  velocity  profile  and  Wind  rose,  turbulence,
inversion layer and mixing depth and Atmospheric Stability [Lectures 6].
Dispersion  of  air  pollutants  and  Air  Quality  modeling:    Dispersion  models,  Gaussian
dispersion model: assumptions, dispersion parameters and effective stack height, plume rise
and plume behavior, Receptor models [Lectures 6].
Effects of Air Pollution on Climate and Human health: Tropospheric Ozone chemistry,
Photochemical  Smog,  Acid  Rain,  Visibility,  Indoor  Air  Pollution,  Dose  Response  and  Health
effects [Lectures 6].
1. Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics- From Air Pollution to Climate Change, J. H. Seinfeld
and S. N. Pandis, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., Third Edition, 2013.
2. Aerosol  Technology-Properties,  Behavior  and  Measurement  of  Airborne  Particles,  W.  C.
Hinds, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., Second Edition, 1998.
3. Introduction  to  Air  Pollution  Science,  R.  F.  Phalen  and  R.  N.  Phalen,  Jones  &  Bartlett
Learning, LLC, Burlington, MA, 2013.
4. Aerosol Measurement:  Principles, Techniques and Applications, edited  by K. Willeke,  P.
Baron, Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1993.
Online course Material
Solid Waste Management
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  To enable understanding of life cycle of waste generation to disposal or sustainable re-
2.  To inculcate basic steps of solid waste management
3.  To enable selection of best possible location specific solid waste management options
1.  Conceptually design waste conversion/treatment processes
2.  Able to assess the environmental and the economic impact of specific types of solid waste
generated and its reuse
3.  Enabled to develop innovative and smarter solutions of solid waste management at rural
and urban environs
Solid waste type and Classification, Quantity, Types of Waste Stream and its life cycle
Waste  Generation-  Industrial,  Municipal  and  Agriculture,  4R  strategies  and  Social  costs
Collection and Transport: Collection Components, their Reliability, Scavengers, Automated
Waste Collection, Design for Larger Transfer Operations, Automated Control, Inventory and
Monitoring [Lectures 5].
Separation  and  Processing  Techniques:  Separation  and  Screening  Equipment,
Automated  Sorters,  Solid  Waste  Processing,  Recovering,  E-Waste,  Size  Reduction,
Incineration and pyrolysis [Lectures 6].
Options  for  Disposal,  Selection  Criteria,  Sanitary  Landfill,  Properties  of  Gases  from
Landfills, Hazards and Air Pollution, , Leachate Control and Management [Lectures 5].
Composting: Benefits of Composting, Biological Processes Involved in Composting Chemical
Processes,  Physical  Processes,  Thermodynamics  of  Compositing,  Gasifying,  Refuse-derived
fuel [Lectures 8].
Microbiology: Biological decomposition, Microbiology of composting, Municipal solid waste
Pathogens, enteric microbes in landfills and leachate, Pure culture, Mixed culture screening
tests [Lectures 6].
Reuse  and  Recycle:  Reuse,  Increased  Product  Lifetime,  Material  Life  Cycle  Studies,
Recycling, New Materials-Self Destructing/Organic, MSW Handling Rules, Public Aptitude, and
Legislation [Lectures 6].
1.  George  Tchobanoglous,  Hilary  Theisen,  Samuel  Vigil,  Integrated  Solid  Waste
Management: Engineering Principles and Management Issues, McGraw-Hill Series in
Water  Resources  and  Environmental  Engineering,  ISBN-10:  0070632375,  ISBN-13:
2.  Kanti L. Shah, Basics of Solid and Hazardous Waste Management Technology, Prentice
Hall, ISBN-10: 0139603786, ISBN-13: 978-0139603785
3.  Ni-Bin  Chang,  Ana  Pires,  Sustainable  Solid  Waste  Management:  A  Systems
Engineering  Approach,  Wiley-IEEE  Press;  1  edition  (March  16,  2015),  ISBN-10:
1118456912, ISBN-13: 978-1118456910
1.  Edward  A.  McBean,  Frank  A.  Rovers,  Grahame  J.  Farquhar,  Solid  Waste  Landfill
Engineering  and  Design,  Prentice  Hall;  ISBN-10:  0130791873,  ISBN-13:  978-
2.  Christian  Ludwig,  Stefanie  Hellweg,  Municipal  Solid  Waste  Management  ,  Springer
2003, London, ISBN 978-3-642-62898-6.
3.  Roger Tim Haug, Composting Engineering: Principles and Practice, Ann Arbor Science,
Solid and Hazardous Waste Management,IITM, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105106056/
Soild  Waste  Management,
Remote Sensing and GIS for
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  To introduce you to the basic principles of observing the Earth’s geography and concepts
of remote sensing
2.  To explore its applications specific to the environment and natural resource management.
1.  Identify  and  obtain  appropriate  satellite  imagery  for  a  land  surface  based  resource
management, service infrastructure and real world application
2.  Demonstrate  proficiency  in  the  common  (  open  source:  QGIS/  Google  Earth  Engine,
ERDAS Imagine, ENVI) and advanced (ARCGIS, Ecognition, QT modeler) remote sensing
3.  Conduct  basic  to  intermediate  remote  sensing  analyses  (atmospheric  and  geographic
corrections,  spectral  transformations  and  enhancements,  classification,  modelling  and
In-situ  field  observation;  data  collection;  Photographic  and  Remote  Sensing  data
collection, Spectral spatial and temporal aspects, analog and digital processing introduction
and sensing economics [Lectures 4]
Electromagnetics:  conduction,  convection  and  radiation;  radiation  and  its  models,
Aerial  Photography-  Camera,  photography  filtration-films,  planning  field  missions
Photogrammetry : Aerial photography, stereoscopy and its principles, image digitization,
aero-triangulation,  extracting  spot  elevation,  contours  and  DEMs  using  soft  copy
photography, Ortho-imagery and Area Measurement [Lectures 6]
Multispectral Imagery: discrete detectors and scanning mirrors, Landsat: multi-spectral
scanner,  thematic mapper, Enhanced Thematic Mapper plus (Landsat 7), , GOES-,AVHRR
Radiometer, Aircraft Multispectral Scanners [Lectures 8]
Thermal Infrared Remote Sensing: Thermal infrared radiation properties, laws (Stefan-
bolzmann, Wein’s, Kirchoff’s)[ Lectures 2]
Microwave Remote Sensing: RADAR, SAR remote sensing, Radar interferometry, LIDAR
Passive Microwave Remote Sensing- Radiometers. [Lectures 3]
Visual  image  Interpretation:  The  aerial/regional  perspective,  3D  depth  perspective
Digital  Image  Interpretation  and  Analysis:  Preprocessing  of  Images,  Image
Enhancement, Contrast and basics of spatial feature manipulation. [Lectures 5]
Note: Labs will have hands-on use of the latest Google Earth Engine (GEE), QGIS, ERDAS
IMAGINE, and ArcGIS software. It will also look into application of remote sensing imagery
in  soil  and  water  analysis,  overlaying  data  retrieved  from  different  subject  areas  of
engineering, lidar imagery and other GIS data.
List of Experiments on Surveying Based Laboratory:
1.  To  assess  the  distance  between  two  inaccessible  points  in  a  specific  area  using  a
compass as well as plotting the area using closed traverse (prismatic compass).
2.  To solve two-point, and three-point problems using plane table survey.
3.  To understand differential levelling, vertical/cross sectional plotting and contouring
using automatic levellers.
4.  To  survey  a  nearby  plot  bounded  by  any  polygon  using  a  theodolite  and  also  to
perform trigonometric levelling to find the characteristics of a nearby building.
5.  To  plot  a  known  area  using  GPS  measurements  and  assess  the  accuracy  of  the
6.  Using total station to combine electromagnetic distance measurement and electronic
theodolite to understand the ramp in the institute and their geometrical features with
List of Experiments in GIS Laboratory:
1.  To create a map of any area using vector data models using available ground data.
2.  To perform geo-referencing when coordinate values are not given.
3.  To  study  terrain  data  such  as  slope,  aspect,  and  hill  shade.  How  to  use  these  for
representation  of  different  social/service  as  well  as  frequency  of  different  aspects
concerning demographic data.
4.  To  create  a  stream  network  or  perform  stream  order  generation  or  delineate
watersheds created by a water body using DEM files.
5.  To perform site suitability analysis for a service building (example hospital) near to
a  agricultural  and inhabited land  near  an  arid  village  at  the  edge  of  an  oasis  near
6.  Basic experiments on image sharpening and image resolution using ARC GIS/ ERDAS
IMAGINE processing tool.
1.  John R. Jenkins, Remote Sensing of the Environment: An Earth Prespective
2.  Lillesand,  T.M.,  Kiefer,  R.W.  &  Chipman,  J.W.  2008.  Remote  Sensing  and  Image
Interpretation, 6th Edition, John Wiley and Sons.
1.  Floyd  F.  Sabins,  Remote  Sensing:  Principles  and  Applications  (3rd  edition),  Publisher  :
Waveland Press, Edition : 3rd, Print ISBN : 9781577665076, 1577665074, eText ISBN :
2.  Gopi, S., Sathikumar, R., and Madhu,  N., Advanced Surveying: Total Station, GIS and
Remote Sensing, Pearson, 2007, Dorling Kindersley (India).ISBN 978-81-3017-0067-9.
3.  Barrett,  E.C.  &  Curtis,  L.F.  2007.  Introduction  to  Environmental  Remote  Sensing,
Climate Change and Impact
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  To gain understanding of scientific foundation and key concepts of atmospheric
science, climate data collection and impacts of GHGs.
2.  To develop scientific basis of our understanding of climate system and climate change,
and associated uncertainties.
3.  To provide knowledge on the impacts of climate change on natural world in the current
scenario and coming centuries.
The students are expected to achieve proficiency in:
1.  Understanding present climate system in the context of Earth’s history, reconstructing
climate evolution and relevant scientific uncertainties.
2.  Developing  basics  of  climate  change  science  with  key  concepts  of  climate,  weather,
energy balance and GHG effect.
3.  Understanding energy flows within Earth-Atmosphere system.
4.  Explaining  the  large-scale  atmospheric  circulations  with  underlying  fluid  mechanics
principles and role of oceans in climate variability.
5.  Developing scientific understanding of climate forcing, sensitivity and feedback systems.
6.  Understanding the basics of energy balance models and fundamental equations of Global
Circulation Models for simulating and estimating past and future climate systems.
7.  Understanding  the  potential  impacts  of  climate  change  and  future  climate  change
Introduction  to  Climate  and  Climate  Change:  Evolution  of  Earth’s  climate:  history,
Instrumental and paleoclimatic record, Climate Change: Definition, Components of climate
system, Global energy balance, GHGs and Greenhouse effect [Lectures 5].
Radiative  Energy  Transfer:  Radiation  laws,  Radiation  Processes,  Absorption  and
Scattering by Gases and Particles, Solar Zenith Angle and Aerosol Optical Depth, Radiative
Transfer Equation [Lectures 5].
Convection  and  Atmospheric  Circulation:    Dry  and  moist  convection,  Atmospheric
convection and types, Scales of motion, Energy and Momentum Transport [Lectures 7].
Oceanic Circulation: Physical characteristics of ocean, Energy transport mechanism: Wind
driven circulation theories, and thermohaline circulation [Lectures 4].
Climate  sensitivity  and  feedback  mechanisms:  Equilibrium  Climate  sensitivity,
Transient  Climate  Response,
mechanisms/Processes, Climate sensitivity estimates [Lectures 5].
Climate  Variability:    Buffering  atmospheric  temperature  changes,  Atmosphere-ocean
coupling: El Nino and Southern Oscillations [Lectures 3].
Climate  modeling:  One  layer  energy  balance  model,  1D  EBM,  Global  Circulation  Model,
difference between Weather forecast models and GCMs [Lectures 8].
Climate  Change  Impacts  and  future  projections:  Sea  level  rise,  Ecosystem  and
biodiversity,  Shifting  water  resources,  Agricultural  impacts,  severe  weather  impacts  and
Human  health;  Impact  assessment  of  GHGs  on  global  temperature,  rainfall  and  drought
patterns, atmospheric circulation. [Lectures 5].
1.  Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics- From Air Pollution to Climate Change, J. H. Seinfeld
and S. N. Pandis, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., Third Edition, 2013.
2.  Fundamentals of Atmospheric modeling, Marck Jacobson, Cambridge University Press,
Second Edition, 2005.
3.  Air  Pollution  and  Global  Warming:  History,  Science  and  Solutions,  Mark  Jacobson,
Cambridge University Press, Second Edition, 2012.
4.  Atmosphere, Ocean, and Climate Dynamics, John Marshall ad R. Alan Plumb, Elsevier
Academic Press, 2008.
Online course Material
Objectives: Objectives of this course are:
Green building and Sustainable Materials  Number
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
L-T-P-D [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1.  To introduce elements of green building construction and use of sustainable
2.  To familiarize students with different national and international green performance
3.  To teach students methods of carbon footprint reduction and increase in energy
efficiency of a building.
Learning Outcomes: A graduate of this course will have a thorough idea of:
1.  National and international green building assessment system and requirements.
2.  Green building design elements and use of sustainable materials.
3.  Techniques to reduce the carbon footprint of a green building.
4.  Management of hydrological cycle, treatment of waste, and maintainance of indoor
5.  Green building economics, business plan, and management.
Introduction  to  green  building:  Rationale  for  high-performance  green  building;  green
building progress and obstacles; trends in high-performance green building; the green
building movement. (Lectures: 3)
Ecological design: design vs ecological design; contemporary ecological design; future
ecological design; thermodynamics: limits on recycling and the dissipation of materials
Green building assessment: US green building assessment system; international green
building assessment system; performance assessment. (Lectures: 3)
LEED  building  rating  system:  history  of  LEED;  structure  of  the  LEED  suite  of  building
assessment systems; LEED credentials; the LEED process; LEED categories. (Lectures:
The Green Globes building assessment system: the Green Globes process; Green Globes
verification  and  certification;  structure  of  the  ANSI/GBI  01-2010  standard;  the  Green
Globes professional and Green Globes Assessor. (Lectures: 3)
Green  building  design  process:  conventional  vs  green  building  delivery  systems;
executing the green building project; the integrated design progress; role of Charrette
in the design process; green building documentation requirements. (Lectures: 3)
Sustainable  site  and  landscape:  land  and  landscape  approaches  for  green  buildings;
sustainable  landscapes;  enhancing  ecosystems;  stormwater  management;  low-impact
development; heat island mitigation; light trespass and pollution reduction; sustainable
site initiative. (Lectures: 3)
Energy  and  carbon  footprint  reduction:  building  energy  issues;  high-performance
building  energy  design  strategy;  passive  design  strategy;  building  envelope;  internal
load  reduction;  active  mechanical  system;  water-heating  system;  electrical  power
systems;  innovative  energy  optimization  strategies;  renewable  energy  systems;  fuel
cells; smart buildings and energy management systems; ozone-depleting chemicals in
HVAC&R systems; reducing carbon footprint of the built environment. (Lectures: 4)
Built environment hydrological cycle: global water resource depletion; hydrological cycle
terminology; high-performance building hydrological cycle strategy; designing the high-
performance  building  hydrological  cycle;  water  budget  rules  of  thumb;  sustainable
stormwater management; landscaping water efficiency. (Lectures: 4)
Closing  materials  loops:  distinguishing  between  green  building  products  and  green
building  materials;  LCA  of  building  materials  and  products;  environmental  product
declaration;  materials  and  product  certification  systems;  emerging  construction
materials and products; design for deconstruction. (Lectures: 4)
Indoor environmental quality: IEQ issues; design; main components of integrated IEQ
design;  emission  from  building  materials;  economic  benefits  of  good  indoor
environmental quality. (Lectures: 3)
Construction operations and commissioning: site protection planning; indoor air quality
during  construction;  construction  materials  management;  construction  and  demolition
waste management. (Lectures: 3)
Green building economics: the business case for high-performance green building; the
economics of green building; quantifying green building benefits. (Lectures: 3)
1.  Charles J. Kibert (2013). Sustainable Construction. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-1-
2.  J. Newman and Ban Sang Choo (2003) Advanced Concrete Technology-Constituent
Materials (1st Ed), Elsevier. ISBN 9780080489988.
3.  S. Kubba (2010) LEED Practices, Certification, and Accreditation Hand book (1st Ed)
Elsevier. ISBN 9780080958590.
1.  Ministry of Power, Energy Conservation Building Code 2018, Revised Version, Bureau
of Energy Efficiency, 2018,
2.  Indian Building Congress, Practical Handbook on Energy Conservation in Buildings, 1
st ed. Nabhi Publication, 2008.
3.  TERI-Griha’s Green Design practices (www.teriin.org/bcsd/griha/griha.htm)
4.  Sartori, I., and Hestnes, A. G. “Energy use in the life cycle of conventional and low-
energy buildings: A review article”, Energy and Buildings., 20, 249-257.2007
5.  Green  Building  Basics,  California
Integrated  Waste  Management  Board
6.  Catarina  Thormark.  “A  low  energy  building  in  a  life  cycle—its  embodied  energy,
energy need for operation and recycling potential”, Building and Environment., 37,
Online course Material
“NOC:Energy Efficiency, Acoustics and daylighting in Building” by Prof. B. Bhattacharjee on
Objectives: The course will introduce students to:
Traffic Flow Theory
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  Fundamentals of traffic flow
2.  Analysis of traffic flow
3.  Traffic flow modelling approaches
Learning Outcomes: At the end of the course, the student should be able to:
1.  Differentiate and analyse traffic flow parameters at micro-macro levels
2.  Analyse congestion propagation in traffic flow
3.  Understand the state-of-the-art traffic flow modelling
4.  Perform traffic flow modelling and analysis using field data
Introduction to Traffic Flow theory [No. of lectures – 6]: Macroscopic parameters – Space
mean  speed,  Density,  and  Flow;  Microscopic  parameters  –  Time  mean  speed,  Time
headway,  Space  headway,  occupancy;  Relation  between  microscopic  and  macroscopic
parameters; Fundamental traffic flow equation
Macroscopic  models  of  Traffic  flow  [No.  of  lectures  -10]:  Empirical  and  theoretical
models,  Continuity  equations,  Solution  to  linear  and  non-linear  partial  differential
equations, Two fluid model
Microscopic Models of Traffic flow [No. of lectures-10]: Car following models, Response
Stimulus model, Psychophysical model, stability, Advanced car following models
Propagation  of  disturbance  [No.  of  lectures  –  6]:  Non-linear  traffic  waves  and
acceleration of stream, Shockwave theory and applications
Analysis  of  traffic  flow  [No.  of  lectures-10]:  Accumulation  diagrams,  Incidents,
Probabilistic  analysis  of  traffic  flow,  Gap  acceptance  theory,  Queuing  theory  and
1.  Ni, D. Traffic flow Theory. BH, Elsevier, MA, USA.
2.  Adolf D. May. Traffic flow fundamentals. Copyright: Prentice Hall, Inc
3.  Nicholas J Garber and Lester A Hoel. Traffic and Highway Engineering. Copyright:
Brooks/Cole-Wadsworth Group\Thomson learning
4.  Fred. L. Mannering, Walter P. Kilareski, and Scott S. Washburn. Principles of
Highway Engineering and Traffic Analysis. Copyright: John Wiley and Sons, Inc.
5.  C. Jotin Khisty and B. Kent Lall. Transportation Engineering. Copyright; Pearson
1.  Kadiyali. L. R. (2016).Traffic Engineering and Transport Planning. Khanna
2.  Chakroborty, P., Animesh Das (2017). Principles of Transportation Engineering.
Second Edition, PHI Learning Private Limited
3.  Saxena S. C. (2014). Textbook of Highway and Traffic engineering. CBS
4.  Samuel Morgan (2016) Traffic Engineering and Transport Planning. Williford Pr.
5.  Jaume Barceló. (2010) Fundamentals of Traffic Simulation. Springer.
6.  Roess, R.P., Prassas E. S., McShane W. R. (2010) Traffic Engineering. Pearson
Objectives: The course will introduce students to:
Traffic System and Management
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  Traffic system characteristics
2.  Traffic control system
3.  Traffic studies and basic analysis
4.  Intelligent Transportation System (ITS)
Learning Outcomes: At the end of the course, the student should be able to:
1.  Understand in-depth the data collection methods and analysis of various traffic flow
2.  Design traffic control systems
3.  Have adequate exposure to various traffic management measures
4.  Understand the fundamentals and applications of ITS
Traffic  Systems  Characteristics  [No.  of  lectures-  6]:  User,  Vehicle  and  Traffic
Traffic Studies and Basic Analysis [No. of lectures-10]: Speed, journey time, and delay
studies,  Volume  and  occupancy  studies,  Origin-destination  Studies,  Parking  studies,
Accident Studies. Capacity and Level of Service (LOS) analysis
Traffic  Control  System  [No.  of  lectures  -12]:  Road  markings  –  Principles  of  road
markings,  carriageway  markings  and  object  markings;  Traffic  signs  –  Importance  of
traffic  signs,  Types  of  traffic  signs;  Intersection  control,  Signal  design-  Illustration  of
signals, fixed time signals, signal design using IRC method and HCM method
Traffic  Management  [No.of  lectures-8]:  Strategies  and  techniques,  Traffic  calming,
congestion studies and road pricing.
Intelligent Transportation system [No. of lectures – 6]: User services and architecture,
standards  and  evaluation,  Public  Transport  and  bus  priority,  Artificial  intelligence  in
advanced traffic and ITS
1.  Nicholas  J  Garber  and  Lester  A  Hoel.  Traffic  and  Highway  Engineering.  Copyright:
Brooks/Cole-Wadsworth Group\Thomson learning
2.  Fred. L. Mannering, Walter P. Kilareski, and Scott S. Washburn. Principles of Highway
Engineering and Traffic Analysis. Copyright: John Wiley and Sons, Inc.
3.  C.  Jotin  Khisty  and  B.  Kent  Lall.  Transportation  Engineering.  Copyright;  Pearson
5.  Sussman, J. Perspectives on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS). New York, NY:
1.  Kadiyali. L. R. (2016).Traffic Engineering and Transport Planning. Khanna Publishers
2.  Chakroborty,  P.,  Animesh  Das  (2017).  Principles  of  Transportation  Engineering.
Second Edition, PHI Learning Private Limited
3.  Roess, R.P., Prassas E. S., McShane W. R. (2010) Traffic Engineering. Pearson
Soil Stabilization and Ground Improvement  Number
Department  Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Offered for  B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
Objectives: This course will introduce:
L-T-P-D [C]  3-0-0 [3]
1.  Scopes of soil stabilization and ground improvement in various geotechnical
2.  Different conventional and advanced method of ground improvement and their
3.  Role of ground water and soil types on the stability of soil covers and grounds.
Learning Outcomes: A graduate of this course will have a thorough knowledge of:
1.  Behaviour of soils under different environmental conditions and their compaction
2.  Role and planning of drainage to enhance stability of grounds.
3.  Different mechanical, chemical, and cmenting stabilization techniques regularly
used in stabilization programs.
4.  Use of geosynthetics and influence of their properties on ground improvement.
5.  Elements of grouting and injection to increase soil stabilization.
  Formation and development of ground: Formation of rock, soil, and soil profile; Soil
distribution  in  India;  alteration  of  ground  after  formation;  reclaimed  soil;  ground
improvement potential (Lectures: 3)
  Compaction: compaction mechanics; field procedure; surface compaction; selection
of field compaction procedures; compaction quality control. (Lectures: 3)
  Drainage  methods:  seepage;  filter  requirements;  groundwater;  methods  of
dewatering systems; design steps for dewatering systems; drains. (Lectures: 5)
  Precompression and vertical drains: compressibility of soils and consolidation; pre-
loading  and  surface  fills;  vertical  drains;  granular  piles;  dynamic  consolidation;
consolidation by electro-osmosis. (Lectures: 5)
  Vibration methods: vibro-compression; vibro-displacement compression. (Lectures:
  Grouting  and  injection:  aspects  of  grouting;  grouting  procedure;  applications.
  Mechanical, cementing, and chemical stabilization: requirements of soil stabilization;
mechanical  stabilization;  Portland  cement  stabilization;  bituminous  stabilization;
chemical stabilization; construction methods. (Lectures: 4)
  Geosynthetics:  geosynthetic  types;  properties  of  geosynthetics;  applications  of
geosynthetics (Lectures: 5)
  Contemporary soil improvement techniques: soil reinforcement; soil nailing; thermal
methods; backfill materials for retaining walls; improving rock stability and quality.
  Case histories of ground improvement: traditional ground improvements adopted in
weak soils in India and abroad; codal suggestions. (Lectures: 2)
1.  Hausmann, M.R. (1990). Engineering Principles of Ground Modification, McGraw-Hill
International Editions. ISBN: 9780070272798.
2.  Dr. Purushottama Raj (2005). Ground Improvement Techniques. Laxmi
Publications. ISBN: 9788170088370.
3.  Bowles J.E. (1997). Foundation Analysis and Design (5th Ed). Tata McGraw-Hill
International Edition. ISBN 0-07-912247-7.
Online course Material
1.  Ground Improvement Techniques by Dr. G.L. Sivakumar Babu on NTPEL.
Civil and Infrastructure
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD,
Objectives: this course aims at :
1.  Introducing basic principles and methods of foundation design and constructions.
2.  Introducing different ambient conditions that influence the stability of a foundation
in short and long-term.
3.  Introducing methods of stable foundations in earthquake prone areas.
Learning Outcomes: Students will have the ability to
1.  Analyze the properties of soil and rock to design appropriate foundations.
2.  Analytical knowledge of short-term and long-term consolidation behavior of
3.  Device methods to protect new and historical foundations against decay and
4.  Design earthquake resistant foundation in different soils and rocks.
5.  Apply international and national codes to study soil behavior and design
  Shallow and deep foundation: selection of foundation type; shallow foundations; deep
foundation. (Lectures: 3)
  Bearing  capacity  of  foundations:  Bearing  capacity  of  shallow  foundations;  bearing
capacity of deep foundations; lateral load capacity of deep foundations (Lectures: 3)
  Settlement  of  foundations:  Collapsible  soil;  settlement  of  cohecionless  soil;  other
common causes of settlement; foundation on rock; allowable settlement. (Lectures:
  Consolidation:  laboratory  consolidation  test;  immediate  settlement;  primary
consolidation; rate of primary consolidation; secondary compression;  consolidation
of  soil  beneath  shallow  foundation;  consolidation  of  soil  beneath  deep  foundation;
settlement of unsaturated cohesive soil. (Lectures: 3)
  Foundation  of  expansive  soil:  expansion  potential;  basic  expansive  soil  principles;
prediction of foundation movement; foundation design for expansive soil; flatwork;
expansive rock. (Lectures: 3)
  Retaining walls: simple retaining wall without wall friction; simple retaining wall with
friction;  design  and  construction  of  retaining  walls;  restrained  retaining  walls;
mechanically  stabilized  earth  retaining  walls;  sheet  pile  walls;  temporary  retaining
walls; moisture migration through basement walls. (Lectures: 4)
  Foundation  deterioration  and  cracking:  timber  decay;  sulfate  attack  on  concrete;
frost;  historic  structures;  shrinkage  cracking;  moisture  migration  through  slab-on-
grade foundations. (Lectures: 4)
  Geotechnical  earthquake  engineering:  seismological  concepts;  ground  motion
parameters;  dynamic  soil  behavior;  ground  response  analysis;  liquefaction;  slope
stability. (Lectures: 4)
  Seismic  strengthening/retrofitting  methods  for  foundations:  earthquake  structural
damage; foundation settlement; retaining walls; foundation alternatives to mitigate
earthquake effects. (Lectures: 4)
  Grading  and  other  soil
improvement  methods:  grading;  compaction;  soil
improvement methods. (Lectures: 4)
  Foundation excavation, underpinning, and field load tests: foundation excavation and
construction;  field  load  tests;  foundation  underpinning;  observational  method.
  Subsurface  investigation  and  instrumentations:  traditional  in-situ  investigations;
advanced geophysical tests; field instrumentations. (Lectures: 3)
International  building  codes  for  foundations:  general  regulations  for  footing  and
foundations; foundation adjacent to slopes; retaining walls.  (Lectures: 3)
1.  Bowles JE (1997) Foundation Analysis and Design (5th Ed). Tata-McGraw Hill
International Edition. ISBN 0-07-912247-7.
2.  Robert W. day (2010). Foundation Engineering Handbook (2nd Ed). McGraw-Hill
Professional. ISBN 978-0-07-174010-4.
3.  Budhu. M (2012). Soil Mechanics and Foundations (3 rd Ed). John Wiley and Sons.
4.  Robert W. day (2010). Foundation Engineering Handbook (2 nd Ed). McGraw-Hill
Professional. ISBN 978-0-07-174010-4.Manjriker
Foundation Engineering (2018) by Prof. Kousik Deb on NPTEL.
Civil and Infrastructure
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD,
Objectives: This course aims at:
1.  Introducing basic principles of statistics, uncertainty and reliability analysis.
2.  Enhancing engineering knowledge and specialist techniques to prevent/reduce the
likelihood of failures of structures.
3.  Introduction of different methods of reliability analysis in Civil Engineering.
Learning Outcomes: Students will have the ability to:
1.  Analyze the statistical moments of input random variables and the output
2.  Determine the probability of failure, reliability index and safety factors of limit state
3.  Analytical knowledge of different levels of reliability used for structures.
4.  Perform reliability based design on different limit states.
5.  Apply finite element based reliability analysis to structural components and
Introduction to Reliability Engineering: Concepts of structural safety, limit state and
reliability; types of uncertainty; reliability analysis and its importance. (Lectures: 2)
  Basics of statistics and probability: Basic statistics; theory of probability; probability
distribution function; hypothesis testing. (Lectures: 3)
  Resistance  parameters  and  distributions:  Statistics  of  material  properties  and
strength; dimensional variations; allowable stresses. (Lectures: 3)
  Simulation  based  study  of  structural  safety:  Monte  Carlo  method; Latin  hypercube
sampling; advanced sampling techniques. (Lectures: 3)
  Level  2  reliability  methods:  Basic  variables  and  failure  surface;  first  order  second
moment method. (Lectures: 3)
  Gradient based methods: first and second order methods; independent, correlated,
normal and non-normal random variables based limit states. (Lectures: 5)
  Response surface based methods: Conventional response surface method; advanced
response surface methods with examples.  (Lectures: 4)
  Reliability based design: Stochastic models of loads; determination of partial safety
factors; code calibration; safety checking format. (Lectures: 4)
  Reliability of structural systems: System reliability – series and parallel; bounds on
system reliability; modelling of structural systems. (Lectures: 3)
  Advanced  reliability  methods:  Importance  sampling  method;  subset  simulation
method; stochastic response surface method. (Lectures: 3)
  Brief on advanced topics: Fatigue reliability estimation; S-N curve approach; time-
dependent reliability. (Lectures: 3)
  Design  optimization:  Introduction  to  the  concept  of  design  optimization;  examples
on solving reliability based design optimization problems. (Lectures: 3)
  Application of reliability analysis and design: applications to steel, concrete, offshore
structures etc. to determine probability of failure and safe design. (Lectures: 3)
1.  P.  Thoft-Christensen  and  M.J.  Baker  (1982)  Structural  Reliability:  Theory  and  its
Applications, Springer-Verlag Berlin, Heidelberg. ISBN 978-3-642-68699-3.
2.  A.H.S. Ang and W. H. Tang (1984) Probability Concepts in Engineering Planning and
Design Vol. II Decision, Risk and Reliability, John Wiley and Sons, New York. ISBN
3.  P.  Thoft-Christensen  and  Y.  Murotsu  (1986)  Applications  of  Structural  Systems
Reliability Theory, Springer Verlag Berlin, Heidelberg. ISBN 978-3-642-82766-2.
4.  O.  Ditlevsen  and  H.O.  Madsen  (1996)  Structural  Reliability  Methods,  John  Wiley  &
Sons Ltd, Chichester. ISBN 978-0-471-96086-7.
5.  S.-K. Choi, R.V. Grandhi and R.A. Canfield (2007) Reliability-based Structural Design,
Springer-Verlag, London. ISBN 978-1-84628-444-1.
6.  R.  Ranganathan  (2011)  Structural  Reliability  Analysis  and  Design  (3rd  Ed),  Jaico
Publishing House, Mumbai. ISBN 81-7224-851-2.
7.  R.E. Melchers and A.T. Beck (2018) Structural Reliability Analysis and Prediction (3rd
Ed), John Wiley and Sons Ltd, Hoboken, NJ. ISBN 978-1-119-26599-3.
1.  Reliability  Engineering  (2009)  by  Prof.  G.L.  Sivakumar  Babu  on  NPTEL.
2.  Structural  Reliability
(2014)  by  Dr.  Arunasis  Chakraborty  on  NPTEL.
3.  Risk and Reliability of Offshore Structures (2016) by Prof. Srinivasan Chandrasekaran
on NPTEL. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/114/106/114106041/
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
B. Tech, M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
L-T-P-D [C]  3-0-0 [3]
Objectives: This course aims at:
1.  Introducing the behaviour of structures (especially framed building) to various
dynamic loads, viz. earthquake, machine vibration etc.
2.  Fundamental understanding to analyze structures subjected to dynamic excitation
and computing quantities like displacements, forces, stresses etc.
3.  Analytical and numerical methods as well as procedures in a way that emphasize
4.  Problem solving ability for dynamic response in Civil Engineering design.
Learning Outcomes: Students will have the ability to:
1.  Establish dynamic equilibrium and equation of motion for structural systems.
2.  Analyze the dynamic response and stress generation in single and multi degree of
freedom systems for different types of loading.
3.  Implement the basis for the classical energy formulations in dynamical systems.
4.  Model structural damping and solve problems in frequency as well as time domain.
5.  Solve the eigenvalue problems and gain knowledge on its useful properties.
6.  Device methods to protect new and existing structures against seismic collapse.
7.  Apply the structural dynamics theory to real-world problems like seismic analysis
and design of structures.
  Basics of structural dynamics: Introduction to dynamic loading and response; types
of analysis - static and dynamic loads; degrees of freedom; lumped mass; types of
mass-spring-damper  system;  formulation  of  equation  of  motion  for  structural
dynamics using direct equilibration, principle of virtual displacement and Hamilton’s
principle. (Lectures: 4)
  Free vibration of single degree of freedom (SDOF) system: Undamped free vibration
and its solution; natural period and frequency; energy in free vibration; damped free
vibration; types of damping; concept of logarithmic decrement. (Lectures: 4)
  Forced  vibration  of  SDOF  system:  Undamped  forced  vibration  and  its  solution;
amplitude and phase angle; dynamic amplification factor; damped forced vibration.
  Force transmission and vibration measurement: Resonant frequency and half power
band  width;  force  transmission  and  isolation;  design  of  vibration  measuring
instruments. (Lectures: 3)
  Response to harmonic and periodic motions: Response of SDOF systems to harmonic
loads and periodic excitations; Fourier series representation. (Lectures: 4)
  Response to arbitrary motions: Response of SDOF systems to unit impulse excitation,
arbitrary force (solution using Duhamel's integral), step and ramp forces, rectangular
pulse and half sinusoidal waves. (Lectures: 4)
  Numerical methods of solution: Determining the dynamics response using methods
such as time stepping methods, central difference method and Newmark's method.
  Response  spectrum:  Concept  of  response  spectrum;  uses  of  response  spectrum;
complex frequency transfer function; development of tripartite plot; base shear and
bending moment; response of structure in frequency domain. (Lectures: 4)
  Multi-degree  of  freedom  (MDOF)  systems:  Equation  of  motion  for  MDOF  system;
solution of equation, matrix properties; natural frequencies and mode shapes; static
condensation;  modal  orthogonality;  mode  superposition  analysis  of  MDOF  system;
approximate method for finding natural frequency. (Lectures: 5)
  Earthquake  response  of  MDOF  systems:  Time  history  analysis;  response  spectrum
analysis. (Lectures: 2)
  Dynamic  response  of  continuous  systems:  Vibration  of  continuous  systems;  axial
vibration of prismatic bar; flexural vibration of beams; shear and bending behaviour;
generalized SDOF. (Lectures: 3)
  Applications: Introduction to finite element method; formation of element stiffness,
mass and force matrices; examples for seismic analysis and response. (Lectures: 2)
1.  J.M.  Biggs  (1964)  Introduction  to  Structural  Dynamics,  McGraw  Hill, NY.  ISBN  07-
2.  R.W. Clough and J. Penzien (1993) Dynamics of Structures (2nd Ed), McGraw Hill Inc
Editor. ISBN 0-07-011392-0.
3.  A.K.  Chopra  (2017)  Dynamics  of  Structures  Theory  and  Application  to  Earthquake
Engineering (5th Ed), Prentice Hall, NJ. ISBN 978-0-134-55512-6.
4.  A.K.  Jain  (2017)  Dynamics  of  Structures  with  MATLAB®  Applications,  Pearson
Education, Chennai, India. ISBN 978-9-332-55855-7
5.  M. Paz and Y.H. Kim (2019) Structural Dynamics Theory and Computation (6th Ed),
Springer Nature, Switzerland. ISBN 978-3-319-94742-6.
1.  Structural  Dynamics
2.  Structural  Dynamics  (2016)  by  Prof.  Ramancharala  Pradeep  Kumar  on  NPTEL.
3.  Structural  Dynamics  for  Civil  Engineers  -  SDOF  Systems  (2019)  by  Prof.  Riya
Catherine George on NPTEL. https://nptel.ac.in/courses/105/104/105104189/
Advanced Mechanics of Solids
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
1.  Enable students to learn advanced concepts of stress analysis
2.  Apply concepts to analysis of mechanical systems such as rotating disks, thick
1.  Develop Ability to solve advanced stress analysis problems using analytical and
2.  Ability to formulate and solve 3D problems in stress analysis
1.  Introduction  to  Cartesian  tensors,  Stress:  Normal  and  shear  stress,  Equilibrium
equations (force and moment), Symmetry of shear tensor, Equilibrium at boundary
(Cauchy  Equation).  2-D  problems  Plane  stress,  Stress  transformation,  Principal
stresses, maximum shear stress, Mohr’s circle (7 Lectures)
2.  Displacements  and  strains,  Green’s  strain,  Compatibility  condition,  Plane  strain
Problems, Strain transformation, Strain gage and rosette (5 Lectures)
3.  Structural  Approximations:  Physical  and  mathematical.  Structural  elements-bars,
beams, plates, membrane, shear panel, shells (1 Lectures)
4.  Mechanical  behavior  of  Engineering  Materials,  Effect  of  Temperature,  Anisotropic,
Isotropic, Orthotropic materials, Failure Criteria (Distortion strain energy, Octahedral
shear  stress)  Maximum  normal  stress,  Maximum  Shear  stress  (Tresca),  Maximum
distortion energy (von-Mises and Hencky) (4 Lectures)
5.  Theory of Elasticity, Plane Stress Problem with Stress formulation in 2-D, Plane Strain
Problem  with  Stress  Formulation  in  2-D,  Airy’s  stress  function,  stress,  strain  and
equilibrium  in  polar  coordinates,  Displacement  formulation  with  plane  stress,  St.
Venant’s Principle (4 Lectures)
6.  Bending and extension of beams, stress-resultants, Equilibrium equations in terms
of deformation with transverse and axial load (3 Lectures)
7.  Torsion  of  slender  bodies  (beams),  Prandtl  stress  function  formulation,  Membrane
analogy, Closed form beam torsion analytical solution, Warping function formulation,
Thin  Walled  open  sections,  Torsion  constants  for  rolled  and  extruded  beams,  Thin
walled closed sections, Shear flow (8 Lectures)
8.  Beam shearing stresses due to shear forces, Shear Centre (3 Lectures)
9.  Euler Buckling (3 Lectures)
10. Principle of virtual-work (4 Lectures)
1.  Srinath, L.S. (2009), Advanced Solid Mechanics, Tata McGraw-Hill
2.  Timoshenko, S.P., and Goodier, J.N. (1980), Theory of Elasticity, Tata McGraw- Hill
3.  Sadd, M. H. (2006), Elasticity: Theory, Applications and Numerics, Academic Press
Online course Material
M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  exposure  to  layout  of  various  components  of  substation  and  design  its
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Develop the layout of a substation and design the substation infrastructure
layouts  -  various  bus
Substation  Layout:  Substation  design  considerations,
configurations and space requirements (5 lectures)
Auxiliary  Power:  Battery  and  charger  configurations,  battery  capacity,  battery  sizing
calculations,  AC  power  supplies,  auxiliary  transformation  connections,  earthing
transformer (5 lectures)
Current and Voltage Transformers: Types, design and construction constructions,  (4
Insulators: Insulator materials, types, design consideration, testing (4 lectures)
Earthing  and  Bonding:  Touch  and  step  voltage,  earthing  materials,  earth  resistance,
earth potential rise, protective multiple earthing (5 lectures)
Switchgear: Introduction, switches, disconnectors, contactors, introduction to operating
mechanism and arc quenching (5 lectures)
1. Bayliss,C., Hardy,B., (2012), Transmission and Distribution Electrical Engineering, 4th
Edition, Newnes publications
2. Rao,S., (1992), Electrical Substation Engineering and Practice Engineering & Practice
EHV-AC, HVDC AND SF6-GIS, 3rd Edition, Khanna publications
Gas Insulated Substation
M. Tech, M. Tech-Ph.D, Ph.D
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  exposure  to  of  gas  insulated  substations  (GIS),  its  design,  testing,  and
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Design and test a gas insulated substation
Introduction:  Features,  economics,  arrangement,  and  components  of  gas  insulated
substations, comparison with air insulated substations (4 lectures)
Introduction  to  SF6:  physical,  chemical,  and  electrical  properties,  handling,
specifications for GIS applications  (3 lectures)
Design of GIS: Ratings of components, estimation of electric stress, design aspects of
GIS  components,  insulation  design,  insulation  coordination,  grounding  systems  (6
Testing:  GIS  testing,  on-site  tests,  condition  monitoring  and  diagnostic  methods  (4
Problems  and  Diagnostics:  Particles  and  their  effects,  SF6  gas  decomposition,
characteristics  of  imperfections  in  insulation,  insulation  diagnostics  methods,  partial
discharge in GIS and its detection (8 lectures)
Fast  transient  phenomena:  Origin,  characteristics,  and  effects  of  very  fast  transient
overvoltages (3 lectures)
1. Naidu,M.S., (2008), Gas Insulated Substations, I.K. International Publishing House
2.  Koch,H., (2014), GIS Gas Insulated Substations, IEEE Press and John Wiley & Sons
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
Objectives: The Instructor will:
1.  Provide  motivation  and  understanding  of  the  need  and  importance  of  Machine
Learning in today’s world.
2.  Provide details about various algorithms in Machine Learning
Learning Outcomes: The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Develop  a  sense  of  Machine  Learning  in  the  modern  context,  and  independently
work on problems relating to Machine Learning.
2.  Design and program efficient algorithms related to Machine Learning, train models,
conduct experiments, and deliver ML-based applications
Introduction:  Motivation,  Different  types  of  learning,  Linear  regression,  Logistic
regression (2 lectures)
  Gradient  Descent:  Introduction,  Stochastic  Gradient  Descent,  Subgradients,
  Gradient Descent for risk minimization (2 lectures)
  Support  Vector  Machines:  Hard  SVM,  Soft  SVM,  Optimality  conditions,  Duality,
Kernel trick, Implementing Soft SVM with Kernels (4 lectures)
  Decision Trees: Decision Tree algorithms, Random forests (2 lectures)
  Nearest Neighbour: k-nearest neighbour, Curse of dimensionality (1 lecture)
  Neural  Networks:  Feedforward  neural  networks,  Expressive  power  of  neural
networks, SGD and Backpropagation (3 lectures)
  Clustering:  Linkage-based  clustering  algorithms,  k-means  algorithm,  Spectral
clustering (2 lectures)
  Dimensionality  reduction:  Principal  Component  Analysis,  Random  projections,
Compressed sensing (2 lectures)
  Generative Models: Maximum likelihood estimator, Naive Bayes, Linear Discriminant
  Latent  variables  and  Expectation-maximization  algorithm,  Bayesian  learning  (4
  Feature  Selection  and  Generation:  Feature  selection,  Feature  transformations,
Feature learning (3 lectures)
  Model  selection  and  validation:  Validation  for  model  selection,  k-fold  cross-
  Training-Validation-Testing split, Regularized loss minimization (3 lectures)
  Statistical Learning Framework: PAC learning, Agnostic PAC learning,
  Bias-complexity  tradeoff,  No  free  lunch  theorem,  VC  dimension,  Structural  risk
minimization, Adaboost (7 lectures)
  Foundations of Deep Learning: DNN, CNN, RNN, Autoencoders (7 lectures)
1.  Shalev-Shwartz,S., Ben-David,S., (2014), Understanding Machine Learning: From
Theory to Algorithms, Cambridge University Press.
1.  Mitchell Tom (1997). Machine Learning, Tata McGraw-Hill.
Artificial Intelligence – 1
Department  Computer Science and Engineering
Offered for  M. Tech, M. Tech-PhD, Ph.D
Number  CS 7XX0
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
Objectives: The Instructor will:
1.  Cover various paradigms that come under the broad umbrella of AI, with some of
them being covered in depth
Learning Outcomes: The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Develop an understanding of where and how AI can be used
Introduction (1 lecture)
  Propositional logic (8 lectures)
  Search:  Uninformed  strategies  (BFS,  DFS,  Dijkstra),  Informed  strategies  (A*
search, heuristic functions, hill-climbing), Adversarial search (Minimax algorithm,
Alpha-beta pruning) (10 lectures)
  Predicate logic: Knowledge representation, Resolution (6 lectures)
  Rule-based systems: Natural language parsing, Context free grammar (3 lectures)
  Constraint satisfaction problems (4 lectures)
  Planning: State space search, Planning Graphs, Partial order planning (4 lectures)
  Uncertain  Reasoning:  Probabilistic  reasoning,  Bayesian  Networks,  Dempster-
  Fuzzy logic (6 lectures)
1.  Russel,S., and Norvig,P., (2015), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, 3rd
Edition, Prentice Hall.
1.  Research literature
1.  Department  of  Computer  Science,  University  of  California,  Berkeley,
2.  NPTEL: Artificial Intelligence, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/106105077/
Wave Energy Conversion
M.Tech, M.Tech.-Ph.D. [CIE]
Objectives: this course aims at:
1.  Introducing  elements  of  wave  energy,  wave  energy  converters  (WECs),  conversion
systems, its economics, and future potential.
Learning Outcomes: Students will have the ability to
1.  Understand the geographical distribution of wave energy potential.
2.  Classify wave  energy  conversion process, and  choose different near-shore to offshore
3.  Understand principles of different components of power conversion systems.
4.  Develop cost & performance analysis of shoreline, near-shore, and offshore systems.
5.  Understand  positive  and  negative  impacts  of  such  systems  and  methods  to  minimize
  Ocean  waves  Wave  and  Wave  Energy:  Origin  and  description  of  waves;  Wave
climatology  and  resource  distribution;  Wave  energy  resource  assessment  and
development; Wave power activities across the globe.
  Wave  energy  conversion  system  and  power  transfer  systems:  Conversion
technology;  conversion  development;  Mechanical  interface;  energy  storage;  Electric
power conversion; Transmission to grid
  Economics: Cost of wave energy; capital, operating, and generating cost; economics
of wave-powered desalination.
  Environmental  and  socioeconomics  implications:    Benefits;  Impacts;  Impact
assessment; Other considerations.
1.  Bhattacharyya R, McCormick ME (2003). Wave Energy Conversion. Volume 6. Elsevier
Ocean Engineering Book Series. Elsevier.  ISBN: 0 08 044212 9
1.  Arthur Pecher, Jens Peter Kofoed, (2017) Handbook of Ocean wave Energy, Springer
2.  T.W. Thorpe, (1999) A Brief Review of Wave Energy, UK Department of Trade and
Industry, ETSU-R120, 25 May 99