• Some common cyber threats seen in educational organization
• Known Cyber Attack currently taking more concern
• Some Important SoPs
• Incident Reporting
WHAT IS CYBER THREAT
• A cyber or cybersecurity threat is a malicious act that seeks to damage data,
steal data, or disrupt digital life in general.
• Educational institutions are one of the most vulnerable targets for
cybercrimes as they involve a huge amount of information and personal
data of students.
• That’s why we  need to implement strong cybersecurity measures and to
make sure that our  students are aware of the main rules on how to secure
themselves and their data on the Internet
Changing your default/welcome credentials immediately
What to do by user ?
• As soon as you receive similar email, kindly
change your password immediately.
Main three password you generally need
● Internet Access Password
(http://172.17.0.50:8080/AD from inside the
● Email Password (i.e your gmail
● ERP Password.
A phishing email is a type of social
engineering attacks where an attacker tricks
target victims into opening a malicious file or
link or providing personal or confidential
information, such as passwords, credit/debit
card number etc.
How to be cautious against Phishing Attacks?
• Be suspicious of any email with urgent request
for personal information.
• Never Share passwords, personal information or
financial information over email.
• Don’t click links in email messages if you suspect
the message might not be authentic or if you
don’t know the sender.
• Don’t trust offers that seem too good to be true.
(if somebody pretending your relative want to
send money to you, winning lottery etc.
Phishing Example: Library Account
How to be cautious against Phishing Attacks?
Dear Student, Your access to your library account
is expiring soon due to inactivity. To continue to
have access to the library services, you must
reactivate your account. For this purpose, click the
web address below or copy and paste it into your
web browser. A successful login will activate your
account and you will be redirected to your library
• Here we have to check the link provided in the
• Our domain is @iitj.ac.in, if any link or url
received to reset password related IIT Jodhpur,
mostly come from our domain only.
EMAIL FRAUD (GIFT CARD SCAMS)
Gift card scams are on the rise and can result
in a victim losing hundreds or thousands of
In a typical scam, an employee/student
receives an email or a text message that
pretends to be from their co-student, faculty
members, or another senior figure or person of
authority. It asks them to buy gift cards and
send them photos.
The scammer may ask you to communicate
with them via text message or email only,
unable to take calls.
How to Spot a Gift Card Scam ?
Inspect the sender's email address to confirm it's
actually coming from that person. Scammers will
often send the email from a random email
account and change the Display Name of the
If the sender’s address ends in @gmail.com,
@outlook.com, or anything other than
@iitj.ac.in, the request is most likely a scam.
EMAIL FRAUD (GIFT CARD SCAMS)
From: xxx@gmail.com(link sends e-mail)
Subject: URGENT REQUEST: What
number can I text you at?
To: xxxxx@iitj.ac.in(link sends e-mail)
Identifying Gift card scam email messages :-
Indicate some level of urgency, such as
indicating they are currently busy or are heading
into a meeting and need your help ASAP
• Possibly include a subject line of  "are you are
available?" or "URGENT REQUEST“
• Ask you to do them a "favor“, promise of
• Possibly have typos and grammatical errors.
What should I do?
1. If you get an email from a colleague asking if you "are available?" or asking for you to
only "text them", before responding, reach out to the sender in a separate email or
call them to check if they actually sent the request.
2. Don't reply to the email or use any contact information provided in the email -
attackers often provide fake numbers or email addresses that they control.
3. If you find the email is a phish, report it! ( cybersec@iitj.ac.in)
BLACKMAIL OR SEXTORTION EMAILS
Its an email scam where an attacker claims to
have compromised victims' machine, sensitive
data including sexual content and picture.
The attacker demands payment, bitcoins, gift
cards or more photos, and threatens to publish
the data to the internet.
the emails claim to have video of users
watching "adult sites" and demanding $900 if
they don't want the video shared with all of
How to respond to sextortion ?
• Stop responding and do not pay.
• Talk with someone you trust, like a close friend, teacher or
parent. Otherwise reach IITJ student wellbeing committee
and alo report to us at  cybersec@iitj.ac.in
• Report tech companies, report any threats and images to
help center of Facebook, Instagram etc. to remove if
• Do not worry if the phish includes your password; likely
this has been obtained from historic breaches of personal
data. If the phish includes a password you still use then
change it immediately,
• Keep your personal details private.
BLACKMAIL OR SEXTORTION EMAILS
What to do by user ?
• First of all, don't panic.
• We recommend you to ignore this type of
communication. Its a type of blackmail email also
known as "Sextortion"
• However, if you download any attachment or click
any links from this email or suspect that your PC or
mobile might be infected with malware you can scan
your device for malware.
• Some notable free antivirus like Sophos home
premium, hitman pro, Bitdefender you can use.
How to protect yourself from Ransomware
• Don’t open unexpected email attachments.
• Make backups of your data and keep them
• Install and use endpoint protection software like
• Update with latest OS and patches regularly.
• Don’t click links in email if sender is unknown.
Ransomware is a type of malware that
encrypts a victim’s files and demands
payment, usually in cryptocurrency, in
exchange for the decryption key.
Ransomware attacks are typically carried out
through phishing emails, malicious
downloads, or exploiting vulnerabilities in
In recent years, educational institutions have
become larger prime targets for ransomware
SOME OTHER KNOWN CYBER ATTACK CURRENTLY
TAKING MORE CONCERN
Fake India Post delivery Scam
• The fraudsters send an SMS stating the status of delivery
of an India Mail package which could not be delivered due
to incomplete address information.
• They provide a deadline of 12 hours for recipients to
confirm their address by clicking on the given link
• This misleading message seeks to fool people into
disclosing personal information or compromising the
security of their device.
• Don’t click these link, if required verify with Indian Post.
SOME OTHER KNOWN CYBER ATTACK CURRENTLY
TAKING MORE CONCERN
New parcel fraud:'Drug was found in your parcel, will inform police';
Fraudsters are posing as fake courier staff or customs officers to scam you.
They call you to inform that the customs department under the Central Board of Indirect
Taxes & Customs (CBIC) has intercepted a parcel/package in your name.
Now they demand you to pay customs duty or tax on it.
Sometimes the scamsters with an aim to build a more convincing narrative, say that
drugs have been found in such parcels/packages and you need to pay a bribe to get this
parcel destroyed along with other evidence.
How can you recognise the parcel scam and protect yourself?
You should first verify and cross-check the information.
Don't rush into making a transaction or provide any personal or financial details.
For instance, all communications from Indian Customs consist of a document
identification number (DIN), which can be verified on the CBIC website-
SOME OTHER KNOWN CYBER ATTACK CURRENTLY
TAKING MORE CONCERN
Work-From-Home Job Scam:-
• User received the text on his WhatsApp number that user
can do a work-from-home job in which he/she  need to
rate hotels on Google Maps and  will receive money in
return as rewards.
• User was then added to a Telegram group with about 100
members, where he/she  started performing the rating
tasks,  the tasks soon included investment activities.
• User later unable to withdraw his investment money and
requesting additional money as a TAX.
Therefore, be cautious when accepting work from home
tasks and disclose information only after thorough
UPI Frauds and Tips to Prevent it?
UPI (Unified Payment Interface) is an instant payment system created by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). It facilitates instant money
transfers between the bank accounts of the two parties.
Types of UPI Fraud
Impersonating Sellers Fraud :- Often, fraudsters use a seller's number to
receive orders from customers. In such a situation, they will take the order and
ask the customer to make the payment using UPI. Thus, the fraudster will get
the money and not deliver the product.
UPI Fraud via Authorized Access to Screen Mirroring Apps:- In this case,
fraudsters posing as bank employees will try to connect with you or list
customer care numbers online that are actually fake. If you try to connect on
this number for any complaints, the fraudster will ask you to download 3rd
party apps, which are screen mirroring apps. These apps provide complete
access to your device through which they carry out unapproved financial
OTP or PIN Fraud:- This is one of the most common types of UPI
transaction fraud. Many individuals share their OTPs or PIN with
fraudsters unknowingly. After that, these fraudsters gain access to the
individual's account and make unauthorised transactions using UPI.
UPI Fraud via Collection Request:- A collection request scam is quite common
with UPI Payment Apps. Scammers committing this fraud usually provide a
reason of a refund or debit reversal and then compel you to click on 'Collect
Request'. Once you click on it, you will be asked to provide your UPI PIN. As
soon as you enter the PIN, scammers immediately debit the money from your
Tips to prevent UPI Fraud
Don't Share UPI PIN
Avoid Downloading Apps You Don't Trust
Check the Credibility of the UPI ID before Scanning
You must follow some security measures, like:
Install anti-virus software on your device.
Install biometric recognition software on your device.
Don't open links from unreliable sources.
Some Important SoPs
• Don't Share password with anyone.
• Always use 2FA whenever possible with complex passwords.
• Keep all your systems (Laptop/Desktop/Mobile) always updated with latest
Its recommended to use an antivirus software in your systems.
Scan the removable media with Antivirus software before accessing.
Internet Surfing:- Do Not use proxy or other sites to bypass campus firewall
• Don’t install any network switches and Wi-Fi Access
point/router without informing DIA.
• Limit and control the use/exposure of personal information while accessing
social media and networking sites.
• Always check the authenticity of the person before accepting a request as
If you suspect a cybersecurity incident or data breach, report it by sending
an email to our Cyber Security team immediately at (cybersec@iitj.ac.in).
• Remember that cybersecurity is a shared responsibility, and your actions
are crucial in maintaining a secure academic environment.
Stay vigilant, stay informed, and help protect your institutes digital assets
and personal information.
• Always follows the SoP’s and Cyber Security policies  of the institute.