Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Ph.D. (METALLURGICAL AND MATERIALS ENGINEERING)
L-T-P  Credits Cat.  Course
TH  MT799   Ph.D. Thesis
TH  MT799   Ph.D. Thesis
TH  MT799   Ph.D. Thesis
TH  MT799   Ph.D. Thesis
TH  MT799   Ph.D. Thesis
TH  MT799   Ph.D. Thesis
* Electives 1 and 5 to be taken from M.Tech. elective courses only. No 5XX
courses can be taken.
L-T-P  Credits Course
3  MT6XX  Electronic, Optical
3  MT6XX  Thin Film
MT7XX  Particulate Matter
3  MT7XX  Theory and Design
3  MT6XX  Diffusion in Solids  3-0-0
DISTRIBUTION OF CREDITS (Ph.D.)
ELECTIVES   M. Tech., M.E., M.Sc. Degree in MT   4
M. Tech., M.E., M.Sc. Degree in
other Engineering disciplines
M. Sc. Degree in Science disciplines  10
DETAILED SYLLABUS FOR THE PROPOSED COURSES
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce various kinds of interfaces and their role in development of material properties
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Design the microstructure in order to meet the properties desired in the materials
1.  Grain  boundary  (GB)  structure:  Atomistic  models  and  their  comparison,  extrinsic  versus
intrinsic GB structure, interaction between dislocations and GB structure, design of GBs
2.  GB energy: Relation between GB structure and GB energy, variation in energy of different
types of grain boundaries
3.  GB  phenomena:  GB  diffusion,  GB  sliding,  GB  migration,  GB  segregation,  Environmental
effect on GBs (corrosion)
4.  Importance  of  GBs
in  physical  and  mechanical  properties:  GB  strengthening,
superplasticity and effect of high temperature deformation
5.  Role of interface in thin films: Interface engineering, electronic interface state, accelerated
reactions, thin film magnetism
1.  Priester, L., Grain Boundaries and Crystalline Plasticity, Wiley, 2013
2.  Gottstein,  G.  and  Shvindlerman,  L.S.,  Grain  Boundary  Migration
Thermodynamics, Kinetics, Applications, Second Edition, CRC Press, 2009
3.  Chadwick,  G.A.,  Grain  Boundary  Structure  and  Properties,  Elsevier  Science  Publishing  Co
4.  Murr,  L.E.,  Interfacial  Phenomena  in  Metals  and  Alloys,  Addison-Wesley  Educational
Publishers Inc., 1975
5.  McLean, D., Grain Boundaries in Metals, Clarendon Press, 1957
1.  Rohrer, G.S., Grain Boundary Energy Anisotropy: a Review, J. Mater. Sci., 2011
2.  Watanabe,  T.,  Grain  Boundary  Design  and  Control  for  High  Temperature  Materials,
Materials Science and Engineering: A, 1993
Online Course Materials
1.  Ghosh,  R.N.,  Principles  of  Physical  Metallurgy,  NPTEL  Course  Material, Department  of
Metallurgical  &  Materials  Engineering  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Kharagpur,
Fatigue and Fracture
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain  all  the  reasons  behind  failure  with  respect  to  fatigue  and  fracture  under  different
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Visualize,  compute  and  asses  all  aspects  of  failure  analysis  in  order  to  prevent  the
occurrence of untoward accidents
1.  Introduction: fracture, fatigue, creep-fatigue interaction, nature of fracture surfaces
2.  Fracture:  Theory  of  linear-elastic  and  elastic-plastic  fracture  mechanics,  damage
mechanics,  damage  tolerance,  dynamic  fracture,  fracture  stress  distribution  at  crack  tip,
crack  initiation  and  propagation,  fracture  control,  computational  fracture  mechanics,
fracture  toughness  and  test  techniques:  COD  and  J-integral  approaches,  fracture
mechanics in metals, ceramics, and composites
3.  Fatigue: Fatigue damage and design, life prediction techniques, fatigue crack initiation and
propagation,  residual  stress  effects  on  fatigue  damage,  fatigue  mechanisms,  short  crack
propagation and fretting fatigue.
4.  Fatigue  Creep-  fatigue  interaction:  modes  of  high  temperature  fracture  and  fatigue
fracture, micro-mechanism of damage, fracture criterion for creep fatigue, failure mapping
and testing, influence of environment
5.  Analysis  and  Case  studies:  elementary  techniques  for  reliability  analysis,  components
failure from different industries
1.  Dieter, G. E., Mechanical Metallurgy, 3rd Edition, McGraw Hill Book Company, 1986
2.  Sachs  N.W.,  Practical  Plant  Failure  Analysis:  A  Guide  to  Understanding  Machinery
Deterioration  and  Improving  Equipment  Reliability,  Dekker  Mechanical  Engineering,  CRC
3.  Suresh, S., Fatigue of Materials; 2nd Edition, Cambridge University Press, 1998
4.  Carlson,  R.  L.  and  Kardomateas,  G.  A.,    An  Introduction  to  Fatigue  in  Metals  and
Composites; First Edition, Chapman and Hall, London, 1995
5.  Lemaitre,  J.,  Desmorat,  R.,  Engineering  Damage  Mechanics:  Ductile,  Creep,  Fatigue  and
Brittle Failures, Springer Science & Business Media, 2006
1.  Cooper  T.D.,  Prevention  of  Structural  Failure  -  the  Role  of  Quantitative  Non-Destructive
Evaluation, ASM International, 1975
2.  Powell  G.W.  and  Mahmoud  S.E.,  Failure  Analysis  and  Prevention,  Metals  Handbook,  Vol.
11, 9th edition, ASM International, 1986
3.  Colangelo  V.J.  and  Heiser  F.A.,  Analysis  of  Metallurgical  Failure,  2nd  edition,  Wiley-
4.  Shipley  R.J.  and  Becker  W.T.,  Failure  Analysis  and  Prevention,  ASM  handbook,  Vol.  11,
ASM International, 2002
5.  Gulati R. and Smith R., Maintenance and Reliability Best Practices, Industrial Press, 2009.
6.  Hull  D.  and  Clyne  T.W.,  An  Introduction  to  Composite  Materials,  2nd  Ed.,  Cambridge
University Press, 2013
Online Course Materials
1.  Ramesh,  K.,  Engineering  Fracture  Mechanics,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of
2.  Ramesh, K., Experimental Stress Analysis, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Applied
Mechanics, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/112106068/
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain  the  principles  to  accurately  relate  the  information  in  two-dimensional  images
observed in microstructure with their three-dimensional features
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Interpret  the  features  of  the  images  of  microstructure  accurately  and  develop
interrelationships among them
1.  Introduction: elements of microstructure, geometric properties of features
2.  Basic stereological procedures: stereology, ground rules for applying stereology
3.  Geometry of microstructures: characterization of microstructures- qualitative, quantitative,
topographic microstructural states, quantitative fractography
4.  Classical stereological measures: area fraction from the point count, volume fraction from
the  point  count,  feature  perimeter  from  line  intercept  count,  surface  areas  and  the  line
5.  Sampling: sample design, procedure for isotropic, uniform and random sampling
6.  Data analysis: Statistical interpretation, computer assisted methods, geometric modelling,
unfolding  size  distributions,  anisotropy  and  gradients,  quantification  of  features  in
Transmission Electron Microscopy
1.  Russ, J. C., Dehoff, R. T., Practical Stereology, 2nd edition, Springer, 2001
2.  Voort, G. F. V., Metallography: Principles and Practice, ASM International, 1984
3.  Fractography, ASM Handbook, Volume 12, ASM International, 1987
4.  Metallography and Microstructures, ASM Handbook, Volume 9, ASM International, 2004
Particulate Matter Technology
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Offered for  M.Tech. (MT) and Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain the origin and application of particulate matter technology
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Select an appropriate process for separation of particulate materials and also optimise the
properties for technological impact
1.  Particle  size:  definitions,  determination,  size  reduction  methods.  Grinding.  Liquid-Solid
separation, Separation methods, thickeners, cyclones, filters, froth flotation
2.  Sedimentation, filtration, fluidization and flotation
3.  Thermodynamic stability diagrams: Roasting. Structure and properties of slags.
4.  Liquid  metallic  solutions:  change  of  standard  states,  activity  interaction  parameters.
Leaching,  solvent  extraction,  ion  exchange,  precipitation.  Electro-winning.  Material  and
5.  Applications in extraction of copper and aluminium
6.  Nano-sized  Particles:  Top-down  and  bottom-up  approaches,
nanotechnology and understanding its properties and characterization
1.  Geankoplis  C.J.,  Transport  Processes  and  Separation  Process  Principles,  4th  Ed.,  Prentice
2.  Brown G.G., and Associates, Unit Operations, BS Publishers, 1995
3.  Kelly,  E.G.,  and Spottiswood,  D.J.,  Introduction  to  Mineral  Processing,  John  Wiley,  New
4.  Rosenquist, T., Principles of Extractive Metallurgy, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1974
1.  Fuerstenau,  M.C.,  and  Han,  K.N.,  Principles  of  Mineral  Processing,  Society  for  Mining,
Metallurgy and Exploration (SME), Colorado, 2003
2.  Yang W.C., Handbook of Fluidization and Fluid Particle systems, Marcel Dekker Inc., 2003
3.  Ray, H.S., Sridhar, R. and Abraham, K.P., Extraction of Nonferrous Metals, Affiliated East-
West Press, New Delhi, 1985
Online Course Materials
1.  Nagarajan.  R.,  Particle  Characterization,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Department  of  Chemical
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain heat, mass and momentum transfer in various metallurgical processes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Relate the subject with industrial practice
2.  Implement the understanding towards the optimization of ongoing metallurgical processes
1.  Introduction  to  Metallurgical  Systems:  Concept  of  unit  operations  in  chemical  metallurgy,
engineering fundamentals of unit processes
2.  Momentum  Transfer:  Differential  and  overall  balances  and  their  applications  in  flow
through  pipes,  inclined  planes,  packed  beds  and  flow  measuring  devices  such  as  orifice
meter, Venturi meter, flow nozzles, pitot tube, rotameter, concept and working principle of
supersonic nozzles; momentum transfer in turbulent flow situation
3.  Heat  Transfer:  Conduction-  Steady  state  heat  conduction  problems  in  slabs,  hollow
cylinders,  spheres,  composite  walls,  composite  pipes  etc,  unsteady  heat  transfer  in
metallic specimens (lumped system) Convection- free and forced convection, heat transfer
coefficient,  dimensional  analysis  problems.  Radiation-  emissivity,  absorptivity,  Planck’s
distribution law, Wein’s displacement law, Stefan  - Boltzmann law, radiative heat transfer
between two black bodies and concept of view factor
4.  Mass Transfer: Fundamentals of diffusion; rate laws, Uphill diffusion and Kirkendal’s effect,
steady  and  unsteady  diffusion,  Numerical  problems  on  diffusion  mass  transfer,
Fundamentals  of  convective  mass  transfer;  free  and  forced  convective  mass  transfer,
Convective mass transfer, rate laws and mass transfer coefficient, Problems on Convective
in:  case  hardening,  doping  of
semiconductors,  homogenization,  oxidation,  absorption/desorption  of  gases  in  liquid
Application  of  mass
5.  Case studies on components from different industries
1.  Bird,  R.B.,  Stewart,  E.S.,  Lightfoot,  E.N.,  Transport  Phenomena, 2nd  Edition,  John  Wiley,
2.  Geiger, G.H., Poirier, D.R., Transport Phenomena in Metallurgy, Addison-Wesley, 1973
3.  Kou, S., Transport Phenomena in Materials Processing, John Wiley, 1996
1.  Backhurst,  J.R.,  Harker,  J.  H.,  Richardson,  J.F.,  Coulson  J.M.,  Chemical  Engineering
Volume 1: Fluid Flow, Heat Transfer and Mass Transfer, 6 th Ed., Butterworth-Heinemann,
2.  Mohanty, A.K., Rate Processes in Metallurgy, Prentice-Hall, 2000
3.  Gaskell, D., An Introduction to Transport Phenomena in Materials Engineering, 2nd Edition,
Momentum Press, 2012
Online Course Materials
1.  Powell,  A.,  IV.  3.185  Transport  Phenomena  in  Materials  Engineering.  Fall  2003.
Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology:  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  https://ocw.mit.edu.
License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
Electronic, Optical and Magnetic Properties of
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce  the  origin  of  electronic,  optical  and magnetic  properties  of  materials  from  their
electronic and molecular structure
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Select appropriate materials for optimum properties aiming for engineering applications
1.  Electronic Properties: Localized vs. delocalized states: From the free electron to the atom,
Electronic  states  in  crystals:  DOS,  bandgaps,  interpretation  of  band  diagrams,  Fermions,
symmetrisation and Pauli's exclusion principle: Electrons in bands and the classification of
solids,  "Free  electron  gas"  description  of  carriers,  The  chemical  potential:  Fermi  level,
statistics  of  electron  distribution,  Electronic  structure  of  semiconductors:  Intrinsic  and
extrinsic, Semiconductor devices: p-n junctions under illumination and applied voltage
2.  Optical  Properties:  Maxwell's  equations:  Electromagnetic  waves  in  materials,  Indices  of
refraction:  Reflection  and  transmission,  light  scattering,  polarization,  optical  fibres,  LEDs,
Periodic optical materials: Photonic bands and band gaps and dispersion relation
3.  Magnetic  Properties:  Magnetization  of  matter,  magnetic  materials  classification–
diamagnetism,  para-magnetism,  ferromagnetism,  anti-ferromagnetism,  ferrimagnetism,
saturation  magnetization  and  Curie  temperature,  magnetic  domains,  soft  and  hard
magnetic  materials;  Superconductivity  -  Zero  resistance  and  the  Meissner  effect,  critical
1.  White, M.A., Physical Properties of Materials, 2nd Ed., CRC Press, 2011
2.  Hummel R.E., Electronic Properties of Materials, 4th Ed., Springer, 2011
3.  Kasap S.O., Principles of Electronic Materials and Devices, 3rd Ed., McGraw-Hill, 2009
4.  Saleh,  Bahaa  E.  A.,  and  Malvin  Carl  Teich.  Fundamentals  of  Photonics.  2nd  ed.  Wiley-
1.  Streetman B. and Banerjee S., Solid State Electronic Devices, 6th ed., Prentice Hall, 2005
2.  Griffiths, D. J., Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. 2nd ed. Pearson Prentice Hall, 2004
3.  O'Handley,  R.  C.,  Modern  Magnetic  Materials:  Principles  and  Applications.  Wiley-
4.  Kwok, H.L., Electronic Materials, PWS Publications, 1997
5.  Pierret, R. F., Semiconductor Fundamentals: Volume I. 2nd ed. Prentice Hall, 1988
Online Course Materials
1.  Parasuraman,  S.,  Electronic  Materials,  NPTEL  Course  Material,  Devices  and  Fabrication
Department  of  Metallurgical  and  Materials  Engineering,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology
2.  Ghosh,  S.,  Electronic  Properties  of  Solids,  NPTEL  Course  Material, Department  of  Physics,
Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, http://nptel.ac.in/syllabus/115103033/
3.  Polina Anikeeva, Geoffrey Beach, and Niels Holten-Andersen. 3.024 Electronic, Optical and
Magnetic Properties of Materials. Spring 2013. Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT
OpenCourseWare, https://ocw.mit.edu. License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
Thin Film Technology
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Develop a comprehensive explanation of thin film deposition principles and techniques
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Select an appropriate deposition method and material while being able to analyse them for
1.  The  physics  of  gases  and  vacuum  systems:  gas  kinetics,  Maxwell-Boltzmann  distribution,
molecular impingement flux, Knudsen equation, mean free path, transport properties
2.  Evaporation:  thermodynamics  of  evaporation,  evaporation  rate,  alloys,  compounds,
sources, deposition monitoring techniques
3.  Deposition:  adsorption,  surface  diffusion,  nucleation,  structure  development,  interfaces,
4.  Epitaxy:  symmetry,  applications,  disruption,  growth  monitoring,  composition  control,
lattice mismatch, surface morphology
5.  Film  analysis:  structure-thickness,  topography,  inhomogeneity,  crystallography,  bonding,
point defects, composition, and optical, electrical and mechanical behaviour of thin films
6.  Vacuum  technology:  different  pumps,  leakage  and  contamination  detection,  gauge
readings, construction of vacuum systems
7.  Deposition  techniques:  evaporation  techniques  (filaments,  baskets,  and  boats),  E-beam
techniques, sputtering techniques and operating a vacuum coating system, chemical vapor
deposition:  gas  supply  and  convection,  reaction  equilibrium  and  surface  processes,
diffusion limited deposition and reactor models
8.  Thickness  measurement  techniques:  point-source  load  calculations  from  nomograph,
crystal thickness monitoring
9.  Thin film technology applications: optical windows, integrated circuits, micro-electro-opto-
mechanical systems and photovoltaics
1.  Soriaga,  M.P.,  Stickney,  J.,  Bottomley,  L.A.,  and  Kim  Y.G,  Thin  Films:  Preparation,
Characterization, Applications, Springer Science 2011
2.  Ohring, M., The Materials Science of Thin Films, 2nd Edition, Academic press, 2002
3.  Smith, D.L., Thin-Film Deposition: Principles and Practice, McGraw-Hill, 1995
4.  Hummel, R. E. and Guenther, K.H., Handbook of Optical Properties: Thin Films for Optical
Coatings, Volume 1, CRC Press, 1995
5.  Chopra, K.L., Thin Film Phenomena, Robert E. Krieger publishing, 1969
Online Course Materials
1.  Schmidt,  M.,  Ruff,  S.,  and  Handley,  R.,  6.152J  Micro/Nano  Processing  Technology.  Fall
2005. Massachusetts Institute of Technology: MIT OpenCourseWare,  https://ocw.mit.edu.
License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA
2.  Pandya, D.K., Physics of Thin Films and Nanostructure Fabrication, NPTEL Course Material,
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, http://www.nptel.ac.in/syllabus/115102019/
Theory and Design of Alloys
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain  the  fundamentals  of  alloys  and  designing  the  compositions  to  meet  the
requirements of specific applications
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand  the  various  alloy  systems  having  varying  properties  at  atomic  and  electronic
2.  Modify conventional alloy compositions for enhanced properties
1.  Structure and stability of alloys: solid solubility, energy  of solid solutions, phase  stability,
2.  Solid  solutions:  size  factor,  electronegativity,  intermediate  phases  with  wide  solid
solubility, lattice spacing in solid solutions, order
3.  Role of defects: vacancies, stacking faults
4.  Theories of substitutional and interstitial solid solutions, intermetallic compounds, bonding
theory for metals and alloys
5.  Theory and design of specific alloys: Ti-alloys, super alloys, special steels, shape memory
alloys, high temperature metals and alloys
6.  Alloy  design  maps:  microstructure  control,  Blackmann  diagrams,  Darken-Gurry  maps,  d-
orbital energy level-bond order maps
1.  Pettifor, D. G., Cottrell, A. H., Electron Theory in Alloy Design, Institute of Materials, 1992
2.  Cahn, R. W., Haasen, P., Physical Metallurgy, volume 1, 4th edition, North-Holland, 1996
3.  Smallman,  R.  E.,  Ngan,  A.H.W.,  Physical  Metallurgy  and  Advanced  Materials,  7th  Edition,
4.  Tien, J., Alloy and Microstructural Design, Academic Press, 1976
5.  Reed,  R.  C.,  The  Superalloys  -  Fundamentals  and  Applications,  Cambridge  University
Diffusion in Solids
Department  Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
Ph.D. (MT) Program
L-T-P [C]  3-0-0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Explain the mechanism of diffusion and their relevance to various metallurgical processes
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Relate the role of diffusion in different metallurgical phenomena controlling the properties
1.  Introduction: theory of diffusion, diffusion in various geometries, mechanisms for diffusion
2.  Laws of diffusion: Fick’s first law, Fick’s second law, methods for analysing diffusion
3.  Diffusion  in  metals:  self-diffusion,  interstitial  solutes,  dilute  substitutional  alloys,  binary
intermetallics, quasicrystalline alloys
4.  Diffusion in semiconductors: self-diffusion, foreign atom diffusion, interstitial-substitutional
5.  Diffusion  in  other  materials:  ionic  crystals,  fast  ion  conductors,  metallic  glasses,  oxide
glasses, ceramics and polymers
6.  Role of diffusion and case studies: grain growth, high temperature corrosion and creep
1.  Shewmon, P. G., Diffusion in Solids, 2nd Edition, Wiley-TMS, 1991
2.  Helmut,  M.,  Diffusion  in  Solids:  Fundamentals,  Methods,  Materials,  Diffusion-Controlled
Processes, Springer, 2007
Online Course Materials
1.  Paul, A., Diffusion in Solids, NPTEL Course Material, Indian Institute of Science Bangalore,
2.  Allen,  S.,  and  Eagar,  T.,  3.205  Thermodynamics  and  Kinetics  of  Materials.  Fall  2006.
Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology:  MIT  OpenCourseWare,  https://ocw.mit.edu.
License: Creative Commons BY-NC-SA