Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Advt.  No:  IITJ/OR(NF)/2025-26/62
Institute Website Link: https://iitj.ac.in
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
(An Institute of National Importance, Ministry of Education, Govt. of India)
NH 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur, Rajasthan – 342030
Advt. No: IITJ/OR(NF)/2025-26/62
Dated: 17 November, 2025
IIT Jodhpur, an Engineering & Technology Institute of National Importance, is dedicated to education, research and
development. The Institute promotes academic excellence in teaching and technology research. The Institute is  looking for
suitable Indian Nationals, through ONLINE applications only, for appointment of Registrar on Tenure/ Deputation basis.
S. No.  Name of the Post
(as per 7th CPC)
(as per 7th CPC)
Pay  Level  14
* Tenure / Deputation post for a period of 05 years.
Details of eligibility criteria, qualification and experience can be downloaded from Institute website (https://www.iitj.ac.in).
The online application is available at (https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/CAREER/auth/onlineApplication.htm).
Admissible benefits  include Basic  Pay,  DA, Medical  Facility and  Transport  Allowance,  as  per  Government  of
India/Institute rules as applicable  at Jodhpur, Rajasthan.
Age Bar :
Age, qualification and experience will be calculated on the closing date of online submission of applications.
Relaxation in age for the category candidates only would be admissible as per RPR 2021 of IIT Jodhpur/Central
The essential, desirable qualifications and experience required for the above post, are as under:
(1) Masters’ degree in any discipline with at least 55% marks or its equivalent grade ‘B’ in the UGC 7 point scale from a
(2)  At  least  15  years’  experience  as  Assistant  Professor  in  AGP  of  Rs.7,000  /  Academic  Pay  Level  11  and  higher,  or
at least 8 years of service in the AGP of Rs.8,000 / Academic Pay Level 12 and higher (including Associate Professor),
along with experience in educational administration,
Experience in research establishment and/or other institutions of higher education comparable to that above,
At least 15 years of administrative experience, of which 8 years shall be as Deputy Registrar or equivalent in Pay Level
12 or above
(1)  Degree in  Management or LLB
(2)  Knowledge  of  computing  system  including  ERP
(3)  Having experience  of working in  Centrally  Funded  Technical  Institutes
(4)  Experience in digitalization  and digital  implementation of  office processes
In case of application for Deputation
Pay Level /Grades from which Deputation to be made:
Officers  under  the  Government  of  India/PSUs/  CFTIs  /  Central  University:
(A)  (i) Holding analogous post with pay level 14 or
(ii)  3 years regular service in posts with Pay Level 13 or equivalent; or
(iii)  08 years’ experience as Deputy Registrar in Centrally Funded Technical Institutes
(B)  Possessing educational qualification as prescribed for the post.
Period of Deputation/Tenure, Appointment of Deputation is initially for a period of 2 years which may be extended on
annual basis (subject to satisfactory performance) upto a maximum period of 5 years.
Applicants are advised to read complete advertisement carefully before applying.
Steps to apply for above mentioned post(s)
Online Application Filling
*Fee Submission (Online)
Submission of Hard Copy of application form along with requisite
documents through Proper Channel, if applicable.
*The online application submission will be considered complete, only after  successfully submission of the fee.
Institute Website Link:  https://iitj.ac.in
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO APPLICANTS
The  applicants  applying  in  response  to  this  advertisement  should  satisfy  themselves  regarding  their  eligibility  for  the
post.  They  must  be  fulfilling  eligibility  criteria  as  on  the  closing  date  of  applications  failing  which  their  application  will
be  rejected.  The  Institute  will  retain  online  applications  data  for  non-shortlisted/non-selected  candidates  only  for  three
months after completion of recruitment process of the said post.
Terminal benefits, if any, will be decided as per Institute norms.
Besides  pay,  the  post  carries  allowances  according  to  the  Institute  rules,  which  at  present  are  at  par  with  Central
Applicants are advised to ensure, before applying, that they possess at least the minimum essential qualification and
experience laid down for the post.
Category applicants are required to attach the valid Caste/required Certificate. PWD applicants are required to attach
the Disability Certificate, in the format prescribed by the Government of India.
Institute strives to have a workforce which reflects gender balance, hence, women candidates are encouraged to apply.
Age, qualification and experience will be calculated on the closing date of online submission of applications.
The Institute reserves the right to:
(a)  Hold Written Test, Skill Test, or Interview for selection, whenever circumstances so warrant.
(b) Withdraw the advertised post(s) at any time without giving any reason; and
(c)  Offer the post at a level lower than that advertised, depending upon the qualifications, experience and performance
of the candidate;
(d) IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to NOT fill any of the posts advertised.
The  prescribed  Essential  Qualification  and  Experience  indicated  are  a  bare  minimum;  mere  possession  of  same  will  not
entitle  applicants  to  be  called  for  Test/Interview.  Where  the  number  of  applications  received  in  response  to  an
advertisement  is  large,  it  may  not  be  convenient  and/or  possible  for  the  Institute  to  conduct  a  test  or  interview  for  all
the  applicants.  In  such  cases,  the  Institute  may  restrict  the  number  of  applicants  to  be  called  for  the  Written  Test  to  a
reasonable  limit, on  the basis  of Qualification  and Experience higher than  the  minimum  prescribed  in the advertisement.
Therefore,  applicants should  furnish details  of  all  qualifications and  experience  possessed  in  the  relevant  field,  over and
above (if any)  the  minimum  qualifications  prescribed  along  with  documentary  evidences.  Applications  received  without
the complete details are liable to be rejected.
Applicants can see the status of recruitment process on Institute website.
The Institute reserves the right to relax age, qualifications and/ or experience in exceptional  situation / cases, or in  case
of persons already holding analogous positions in a university, research  institute, industry,  etc.
Wherever, the post requires experience in a certain Pay/Grade Pay/Pay Level, the same refers only to that in Central
Government (6th/7th  CPC). Those serving in the organization under Central or State Government including PSUs/PSEs,
Universities, Banking Sector etc., their Pay/Grade Pay/Pay Level should be equivalent to Pay/Grade Pay/ Pay Level of
6th/7th  CPC as required for the post.
Higher  initial  pay  may  be  given  to  exceptionally  qualified  and  deserving  applicants  on  recommendation(s)  of  the
Applicants have to pay a non-refundable application fee of Rs. 1,000 for the advertised post. Persons from the SC, ST, PwD,
Ex-Servicemen, Women, EWS categories and regular employee(s) of IIT Jodhpur are not required to pay application
fee. Submitting the application form and paying fee should be done only through the online process; please  visit Institute’s
website (www.iitj.ac.in) for the same. After submission of application and payment of fee, a PDF will be  generated  of  the
completed  form.  Applicants  are  required  to  keep  a  softcopy  of  application  form  for  future  reference.
Persons  serving  in  Government,  Semi-Government  or  Public  Sector  Undertakings  shall  be  required  to  produce  following
documents,  before  appearing  for  the  Interview.  Without  NOC  &  vigilance  clearance  no  candidate  shall  be  allowed  in
the  further process  of  recruitment  and no request for  relaxation  shall be  entertained  for the  same:
1.  No Objection Certificate and Vigilance Clearance from the present employer.
2.  Certificate in support of experience should be in the prescribed format [Annexure-A].
Concerned  Applicants  should  send  the  printout  of  complete  application  alongwith  below  stated  documents
THROUGH  PROPER  CHANNEL  to  the  “Office  of  Recruitment  (Non-Faculty),  IIT  Jodhpur  Admin  Block  (East),
Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur-342030” within 10 days of the last date of submission of Application Form. The
candidate will have to clearly superscribe “Application for the post of Registrar (on Tenure/Deputation)” on the
top of the envelope in capital letters.
1.  NOC/ Consent Letter from Parent Organization and borrowing, if applicable.
2.  Cadre  Clearance  from  Cadre  Controlling  Authority.
3.  Vigilance Clearance Certificate that no Disciplinary/Vigilance case is pending or contemplated against the officer.
4.  Certificate that no major/minor penalty has been awarded to him/her during the last ten years.
5.  The complete and upto date photocopies of APAR/CR dossiers/Assessment reports of the officers for the last 5 years duly
attested by an officer on each page.
6.  Equivalency certificate (IDA/ other scales to 7th CPC pay matrix level), if applicable.
The  above-mentioned  documents/Certificates  are  mandatory,  otherwise  his/her  candidature  shall  not  be
Institute Website Link:  https://iitj.ac.in
The complete postal address (including Telephone Number, Fax Number, Mobile Number and e-Mail address) of the
present  employer  mentioning  the  name  of  the  organization  and  whether  the  organization  is  a  Government,  Semi-
Government,  Autonomous,  Public Sector Enterprises or  Private Sector,  should  be  indicated in  the Application  Form.
Outstation  Applicants  called for  selection  process, will get  reimbursement of fare  (from the  Place of Residence to Jodhpur
and back by the shortest route) as per norms of the Institute through on-line transfer (RTGS/NEFT).
(i)  Applicants  whose  qualifying  degree  has  been  assessed  by  the  University  using  the  CGPA  method,  they  must
upload the conversation formula for CGPA to percentage as recognized by the University.
(ii)  Candidates are also advised to mention experience of each Pay Level / Post individually in application form.
(iii)  Incomplete  application  form,  without  the  attachment  of  all  relevant  Certificates  (both  experience  and
professional), will be summarily rejected.
(iv)  No request for CORRECTION(s) / ADDITION(s) in the application form shall be entertained. The  responsibility
of entries in the application form lies with the Applicant.
Canvassing  in  any  form  or  bringing  in  any  influence  political  or  otherwise,  will  be  a  disqualification  for  the  post.
INTERIM ENQUIRIES WILL NOT BE ENTERTAINED.
In case of any inadvertent mistake in the process of selection, which may be detected at any stage even after issue of the
appointment  letter,  the  Institute  reserves  the  right  to  modify,  withdraw  or  cancel  any  communication  made  to  the
After joining the service of the Institute, the persons will have to abide by the Rules, Regulations, Ordinances, Act and
Statutes and of the Institute applicable from time to time. He/ She may be assigned any duty within or outside the
Institute depending upon the exigency of the work.
The Institute shall verify the antecedents or documents submitted by a person at the time of appointment or during the  tenure
of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents submitted by the candidates are fake, or the person has a  clandestine
antecedents  or  background  and  has  suppressed  the  said  information,  then  his/her  services  shall  be
CANDIDATES  ARE  ADVISED  TO  VISIT  THE  INSTITUTE  WEBSITE  FOR  INFORMATION  RELATED  TO
SHORTLISTING, SCHEDULE & OTHER UPDATES. NO QUERIES FOR THE SAME SHALL BE ENTERTAINED
THROUGH EMAIL/TELEPHONIC CALLS.
The candidate shall retain the mobile number & email address provided at the time of filling the application form as
all further communication shall be made on email and/or mobile number.
The applicants are required to apply only through ONLINE process up to 08 December, 2025 till 23:59 Hrs with attachment
of all required documents, failing which candidature will not be considered. The application which will be completed
(frozen) shall only be considered.
For  a  query  related  to  advertisement,  applicant  may  send  e-mail  on  recruitment@iitj.ac.in.  However,  enquiry/queries
related to eligibility for the post/interpretation of rules or forwarding of application will not be entertained.
Office of Recruitment (Non-Faculty)
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwar
Jodhpur 342 030
Ph: 0291 280 1091
Institute Website Link:  https://iitj.ac.in
THE FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY THE CANDIDATE FOR CLAIMING EXPERIENCE
EXPERIENCE  CERTIFICATE  FORMAT
Letter Head of the Institution/Issuing Authority
him/her during the period(d) are as under:
is  an  employee
and the duties performed by
Name of the
Name of the
Pay Scale/Pay Level
an last Salary drawn
Duties performed /
experience gained in brief
in each post
Place of Posting  Nature of Work
Remarks, if any
Level/ Head of Branch
It  is  certified that  above  facts  and  figures  are true and  based  on service  records  available  in  our  organization.
Name of the Competent Authority
Stamp of  the Competent  Authority
Institute Website Link:  https://iitj.ac.in