Title of the project:
Generation of entangled photons and its applications to Quantum Computation and Information
Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (ICPS) of Department of Science and
Duration: 3 Years (2019-2022) & Completion date: April 2022
Project PI: V. Narayanan
Project Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee
A brief description of the Objective of the project:
Experimental generation, characterization and desired manipulation of nonclassical states are
challenging tasks. Non-classical states that are useful for quantum communication and quantum
information processing will be generated efficiently. Generated nonclassical states will also be
characterized appropriately. The development of Single Photon Source and its characterization,
potential applications of it in the domain of defence will be explored. The investigation would be
mixture of study of theoretical and experimental facets of laser matter interactions that has applications
in quantum information. In the theoretical front, new schemes for quantum communication will be
developed in such a manner that it can be realized using the nonclassical states generated.
Schematics or Pictures:
Title of the project: Quantum Heat Engines
Interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems (ICPS) of Department of Science and
Duration: 3 Years (2019-2022) & Completion date : April 2022
Project PI: V. Narayanan
Project Co-PI: Subhashish Banerjee
A brief description of the Objective of the project:
Even though the role of quantum correlations (more generally, non-classical correlations) is well
understood in some natural phenomena, there are plenty of other phenomena where the former can
potentially play pivotal role, Quantum Thermodynamics being one such area. When the medium of heat
engines are quantum mechanical objects, the work and/or the efficiency of the engine may turn out to
be characteristically different from their classical counterparts. More surprises can occur when
interaction is present among the quantum subsystems comprising the medium – as has been revealed –
in the zero power case (i.e., infinite time is taken for thermalization) – for the case of two spin-1/2
systems and two quantum harmonic oscillators in the presence of quadratic interactions in Otto engine .
For a more realistic scenario (i.e., non-zero power case), we need quantum open system approach to
the action of the engine, which is one of the main goals of this project. This will then be used to
formulate – in a comprehensive manner – the laws of Quantum Thermodynamics with the aim of
achieving the usual laws of Thermodynamics in the macroscopic limit. We will also look at the characters
of non-linear resources in Hamiltonians of the medium of quantum heat engines to get better
efficiencies. All of these are expected to be done, keeping in mind, some physical implementations (like
single-atom heat engine, etc.).
Schematics or Pictures: