INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
(Anti- Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy)
Page 1 of 3
(Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy)
Vigilance  Policy  (Anti-  Bribery  and  Anti-Corruption  Policy)  of  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Jodhpur
plays a key role in ensuring that adequate procedures are in place in order to prevent in any activity
relating to Bribery, Corruption,  Illegal  gratification  and  improper  benefits.  The  Policy  is  aligned  with
the Government’s drive against anti-bribery & corruption and promotes transparency in all possible
way.  Part-time  Chief  Vigilance  Officer,  IIT  Jodhpur  deals  with  the  vigilance  matters  as  per  the
guidelines of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), Government of India.
Objective of Vigilance Policy (Anti- Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy)
The basic objective of the Vigilance Policy (Anti- Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy) at IIT Jodhpur is to
promote Integrity and Transparency in the entire functioning of the Institute in all levels. It helps in
eradicating of bribery and corruption issues. It also empowers the compliance towards the directions
and  requirements  of  Central  Vigilance  Commission  (CVC),  Government  of  India  and  Ministry  of
Education (MoE), Government of India.
Roles & Responsibilities
Preventive Bribery and Punitive Vigilance as per the CVC Guidelines.
Ensuring Anti-corruption in the IIT Jodhpur system.
To  address  various  references  and  complaints  received  from  the  Ministry  of  Education,
Central  Vigilance  Commission  (CVC)  in  the  matter  of  corruption  and  vigilance  angle  and
• Observance of  Vigilance Awareness Week and  other  programmes  as  guided  by  the CVC  and
Ministry of Education, Government of India from time to time.
Submit  the  periodic  Reports  to  the  Ministry  of  Education  (MoE)  and  Central  Vigilance
Commission as and when sought.
The routine functioning is guided by several policies, Act & Statutes, Rules, Guidelines, Administrative
work  ethics  and  principle  of  natural  justice.  As  a  preventive  measure,  the  following  activities  are
conducted and issues are addressed such as but not limited to:
immediate  action  on  complaints  regarding  corrupt  practices,  misconduct,
irregularities, if any.
To Initiate and process individual vigilance cases as per the prescribed format by the CVC and
Ministry of Education (MoE), Govt. of India.
Sensitize all stakeholders towards the mission of elimination of corruption in all forms.
To  provide  feedback  /  inputs  on  queries  raised by  MoE  and CVC  on various  aspects  such  as
Public Procurement / Works, Payments, Complaints, Recruitment and Admissions, etc. as and
Page 2 of 3
Part-time Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO)
The Part-time  Chief  Vigilance  Officer  (CVO)  of  the  Institute  is  appointed as per  the guidelines  of the
Chief Vigilance Commission (CVC), Government of India and the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India.
The Part-time CVO is entrusted to eradicate the existence of bribery and corruption in Institute. The
CVO is required to function as per the guidelines provided by the CVC on the matters pertaining to
Prof. Gaurav Bhatnagar
Part-time CVO, IIT Jodhpur Email:
cvo@iitj.ac.in Phone: (91 291) 280 1457
Webpage Link: https://iitj.ac.in/main/en/vigilance-policy
Page 3 of 3