MSc Chemistry Curriculum Structure
Introduction to the Program
Chemistry  involves  the  study  of  substances,  their  properties,  structures,  reactions
and transformations. Chemistry is interlinked with various scientific disciplines and
play  an  important  role  in  our  daily  life.    It  broadly  covers  various  areas  including
medicinal  chemistry,  analytical  chemistry,  organometallic  chemistry,  polymer
chemistry, quantum chemistry, catalysis and many aspects of materials science. In
the modern society, knowledge of Chemistry is essential for addressing most of the
real-life  challenges  related  to  water,  energy,  food,  agriculture,  security  and
Objectives of the Program
The  major  objective  of  the  program  is  to  bring  out  professionals  having
fundamental knowledge, and specific skill sets of various aspects of chemistry such
as  Organic  Reactions  and  their  Mechanism,  Main-Group  and  Transition  Metals,
Organometallics  and  Catalysis,  Physical  and  Spectroscopic  techniques,  Inorganic
and Solid State Material synthesis, Computational and Theoretical Chemistry.
The  department  focuses  on  preparing  future  students  to  take  up  challenges  at
various levels of academics, R&Ds and industries.
Expected Graduate Attributes
(1)  Capability  to  appreciate  synthetic  methods  for  development  of  important  chemical
products  such  as  pharmaceutical  drugs,  paints,  petrochemicals,  food  additives,
Ability to use characterization tools for analysing reactions and monitoring chemical
processes for product development.
Ability  to  handle  analytical,  spectroscopic,  microscopic  and  other  instrumental
methods for interdisciplinary research areas.
(4)  Use  of  computational  tools  to  understand  and  analyse  chemical  and  biophysical
processes, molecular structures and advanced materials.
Ability to comprehend, write and present scientific articles and technical reports.
(6)  Develop oral and written communication skills.
Appreciation and adherence to norms of professional ethics and sense of intellectual
Ability to plan and manage technical research projects and work in a team.
Program Learning outcome
Strong  fundamentals  in  theoretical  and  practical  aspects  of  organic,  inorganic  and
(2)  Develop  appreciation  of  hands-on  wet  chemistry,  analytical,  instrumentation,  and
experimental  data  handling  skills  to  solve  scientific  problems  to  address
technological challenges in various domains.
Knowledge of computational and theoretical chemistry.
Skills for material synthesis and processes for device integration
(5)  Develop the ability to  exercise independent learning, thinking and  problem solving
(6)  Develop the ability to interact in a cross-cultural environment and acquire time and
project management skills for carrying out guided research work in any of the
research area related to science and technology.
(7)  Develop skills to communicate scientific learning and present ideas.
Course Curriculum Structure
C   CYL6010: Organic
L-T-P-D   Credits   Cat.   Course Number, Course
C   CYL6060: Organic
C   CYL6070: Solid State
C   CYL6030: Quantum
C   CYL6040: Physical
C   CYL6050: Main Group
and Material Chemistry
C   CYL6080: Molecular
C   CYL6090: Theory and
E    Program elective-1
C    CYP6040: Physical
C   CYP6020: Inorganic
C    CYD6010: Minor
C   CYP6030 Hands on -1   0-0-3-0   1.5
C    CYP6050: Hands on-2  0-0-3-0
E   Open elective-1
E   Program Elective-2
E   Program Elective-3
E   Program Elective-4
E   Program Elective-5
E   Program Elective-6
E   Open Elective -2
* Open Elective Courses can be taken in the third semester as well
Total Credits: 77
Topic Clouds for MSc Chemistry Curriculum
A.  PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY
Principles, Exactly solved problems, Approximation
Methods, Electronic Structure Methods, Group Theory.
Molecular Thermodynamics, Chemical Kinetics,
Catalysis, Chemical Reaction Dynamics, Reaction
Kinetics of special reactions.
MT & BSBE
Fundamentals of Spectroscopic techniques and
associated applications, Principles of NMR, Analytical
Electrochemistry   Basics of Electrochemistry, DC and AC techniques,
Photoelectrochemistry, Redox Reactions,
Semiconductor Solution interfaces, Electrochemical
Sensors, Electro-transfer systems, Solar cells,
Electrochemical Energy Storage Devices, Fuel cell.
Molecular simulation, Polymer dynamics, Statistical
mechanics, Stochastic problems in biophysics.
Hands on and
Analytical Methods: UV-Vis, Fluorescence, FTIR etc.
Electroanalytical methods (CV, EIS, GCD,
Chronopotentiometry, Ampereometric and steady
state techniques), Surface and Interface Chemistry:
contact angle, surface tension, surface free energy,
B.  ORGANIC CHEMISTRY
Organic Reactions Mechanism and Rearrangements,
Organic methods, Pericyclic reactions, Organic
Photochemistry, Spectroscopy of Organic Compounds,
Enolate chemistry, Radical Chemistry, catalysis in
organic chemistry, Microwave Reactions, Heterocyclic
Chemistry, Green Chemistry.
Basics of Stereochemistry, Stereochemistry of Organic
Compounds, Enantioselective Synthesis, Transition
State Models and Reaction Outcome.
Fundamentals of Medicinal Chemistry, PK and PD,
ADME-TOX, Lipinski’s Rule, Basics of Drug Discovery,
Heterocyclic compounds as leads, clinical trials
Natural Products  Retrosynthetic Analysis, Natural Product Isolation,
Total Synthesis of Natural Products
Synthesis Protocols, Purification and Distillation
Techniques,  Chromatography Structural
Determination of Organic compounds
C.  INORGANIC CHEMISTRY
General consideration of d block elements,
Coordination complexes: Structure, Bonding and
Properties, Reaction Mechanism. Molecular Complexes,
Coordination polymers and their properties.
Organometallic complexes: synthesis, reactivity and
Crystal Structures, X-Ray Diffraction Techniques,
Synthesis and Physical Characterization of Materials,
Bonding in Solids and properties,  Compound
semiconductors, molecular magnets and magnetic
properties, Defects and Non-stoichiometry,
Nanomaterials with low-dimensional properties.
Basic Concept: Periodic Trends, Atoms, Molecules.
Structure, Bonding and Reactivity of polyatomic
molecules. Synthesis and properties of compounds of
s- and p-block elements.
Metal ions in biological systems and Medicine, Iron
storage and Transport, Oxygen transport, Biological
Redox processes, Metallo-Enzymes.
Catalysis: Introductory Concept, Homogeneous and
Heterogeneous Catalysis: Industrially important
reactions, catalytic concept of energy and
Environmental Remediation, Soil Chemistry, Water
Chemistry, Chemical Sensors, Analytical Chemistry
MT and Phys
Synthesis Techniques for complexes and solids,
Characterization methods, spectroscopic and analytical
1.  Organic Reactions and Mechanism
2.  Physical organic Chemistry
3.  Organic Synthesis
4.  Main Group and Bioinorganic Chemistry
5.  Transition Metal and Organometallic Chemistry
6.  Solid State and Material Chemistry
7.  Quantum Chemistry and Spectroscopy
8.  Molecular Thermodynamics and Chemical Kinetics
9.  Theory and Applications of Spectroscopic Techniques
10.Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory
11.Organic Chemistry Laboratory
1.  Physical Chemistry Laboratory
12.Computational Chemistry Laboratory
3  Elective Courses
1.  Isolation and Synthesis of Natural Products
2.  Spectroscopic Determination of Organic Compounds
3.  Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds
4.  Frontiers in Organic Chemistry
5.  Heterocyclic Chemistry
6.  Polymer Chemistry
7.  Catalysis of Energy
8.  Nanomaterials and Nanodevices
9.  Compounds of p-block Elements and Applications
10.Advanced Materials Design
11.Characterization Techniques in Inorganic Chemistry
14.Sustainable Catalytic Systems
15.Frontiers in Organometallic Catalysis
16.Numerical Methods and Group Theory
18.Principles of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
20.Molecular Dynamics Simulations
21.Solid State NMR Methods for Materials
23.Group Theory and Molecular Spectroscopy
24.Modern Electronic Structure Theory
25.Chemical Reaction Dynamics
26.Biophysical Techniques: Theory and Applications
27.Stochastic problems in Biophysics
29.Statistical Mechanics and Molecular Simulations
30.Advanced Electrochemistry and Applications
Organic Reactions and Mechanisms
Offered for  M.Sc. (CY) Program
Prerequisite  Prior consent of the instructor
The instructor will:
1.  To give students a better insight into the mechanism of diverse set of organic reactions
2.  To broaden their knowledge in fundamental organic chemistry with regard to efficiency
and selectivity of organic reactions.
The students are expected to:
1.  The students are expected to be able to draw mechanisms for complex reactions
2.  Understand and predict the orbital interactions involved in organic reactions
Introduction: reaction mechanism and its need, methods of determination of reaction
mechanism, concerted versus stepwise processes, transition states and intermediates,
early and late transition states, crossover experiments and examples, molecular orbital
interaction of common functional groups (7 lectures)
Acids and bases: the pKa scale and its interpretation, pKa’s of common acids; specific and
general acid and base catalysis (3 lectures)
Classification of reactions: introduction to substitution, elimination and addition reactions,
aromaticity and aromatic substitution reactions (9 lectures)
Stereochemistry: basics of Stereochemistry, stereochemistry of aliphatic compounds,
conformational analysis of acyclic and cyclic compounds, (6 lectures)
Selectivity: chemoselectivity, regioselctivity, and stereoselectivity (4 lectures)
Radical Chemistry: Basics of radicals, radical initiators, radical halogenation of alkanes,
radical name reactions (6 lectures)
Rearrangements and migrations: cationic rearrangements, carbanionic rearrangements,
carbene/carbenoid based rearrangements (7 lectures)
1.  Sykes,P., (2013), A Guidebook to Mechanism in Organic Chemistry, 6th Edition,
2.  Clayden,J., Greeves,N., and Warren,S., (2012), Organic Chemistry, 2nd Edition, Oxford
3.  Carey,F.A., and Sundberg,R.J., (2007) Advanced Organic Chemistry, Part A: Structure
and Mechanisms, 4th Edition, Plenum
1. Gossman,R.B., (2008), The Art of Writing Reasonable Organic Reaction Mechanism,
Preparatory Course Material
1.Sunoj,R.B., Organic Reaction Mechanism, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/104101005/
Physical Organic Chemistry
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  To provide physical concepts of organic chemistry
2.  To provide knowledge in pericyclic and photochemical reactions
The students are expected to:
1.  Be able to understand the course of organic reactions with regard to physical concepts
and stereochemical models
2.  Develop an in-depth knowledge with mechanistic understanding in pericyclic and
photochemical reactions and apply those in the synthesis of organic compounds
Introduction: Brief review of basic concepts of inductive effect, Electromeric effect,
Resonance effect, Hyperconjugation, Captodative Effect (4 lectures)
Stereoelectronic Effects: Participation of sigma and pi bonds in transition state, Orbital
symmetry and frontier orbitals, , Hammond’s Postulate, Hammette Plot, Curtin–Hammett
principle (6 lectures)
Stereochemical Models: Cram Model, Felkin-Anh Model, Chelation Model, Zimmerman-
Traxler Model (7 lectures)
Pericyclic Reactions: Introduction of pericyclic reactions, Classifications, Cycloaddition,
Electrocyclic, Sigmatropic, Group transfer reactions (15 lectures)
Photochemistry: Basic principles of photochemistry, Photochemical reaction of cyclic and
acyclic carbonyl compounds including enones and dienones, photochemistry of alkenes,
dienes, aromatic compounds (10 lectures)
1.  Anslyn, E. V. and Dougherty, D. A., (2006),Modern Physical Organic Chemistry,
University Science Books
2.  Singh, J. and Singh, J., (2012), Photochemistry and Pericyclic Reactions, 3rd Edition.
1.  Smith, M. B., (2016), March’s Advanced Organic Chemistry, 7th Edition. Wiley
2.  Koswer, E.M., (2009), An Introduction to Physical Organic Chemistry, International
3.  Carey, F. A. and Sundberg, R. J., (2007), Advanced Organic Chemistry Part A:
Structure and Mechanisms, 5th Edition. Springer
4.  Carey, F. A. and Sundberg, R. J. (2007), Advanced Organic Chemistry Part B: Reactions
and Synthesis, 5th Edition. Springer
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Singh, N.D. P., Organic Chemistry and Pericyclic Reactions, NPTEL Course material,
Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur,
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  To provide an understanding of diverse chemical reactions and their application in
2.  To provide knowledge of key aspects of retrosynthesis of simple-to-complex organic
The students are expected to:
1.  Acquire the knowledge and skills required to strategize and plan organic synthesis,
2.  Develop an understanding of total synthesis of organic molecules.
Introduction: name reactions, functional group interconversions, transition metal
catalyzed  cross-coupling  reactions,  oxidations  and  reductions  in  organic  synthesis  (25
Carbon-carbon bond formation: application of carbanions in organic synthesis, alkylation
of enolates, enamines and hydrazones, alkylation of heteroatom stabilized anions,
organometallic reagents and their application in synthesis (7 lectures)
Strategy and design of organic synthesis: scope and brief history of organic synthesis,
synthetic strategy, concepts of synthetic equivalents and Umpolung, retrosynthetic
analysis, linear and convergent synthesis, synthesis of 3-membered, 4-membered, 5
membered and 6-membered ring compounds (10 lectures)
1.  Warren,S.,  and  Wyatt.P.,  (2008),  Organic  Synthesis:  The  Disconnection  Approach,  2nd
2.  Nicolaou,K.C.,  Sorensen,E.J.,  (1996),  Classics  in  Total  Synthesis:  Targets,  Strategies
and Methods, 1st Edition, Wiley-VCH
3.  Carey,F.A.,  Sundberg,R.J.,  (2007),  Advanced  Organic Chemistry, Part B: Reactions  and
Synthesis, 5th Edition, Plenum
1.  Clayden,J., Greeves,N., and Warren,S., (2012) Organic Chemistry, 2nd Ed., Oxford
2.  Carruthers, W., (1989), Some Modern Methods in Organic Synthesis, Cambridge
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Punniyamurthy,T., Principles of Organic Synthesis, NPTEL Course Material, Department
of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati,
Main Group and Bioinorganic Chemistry
M.Sc. (CY) Program
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
The Instructor will:
1.  Give better insight into chemistry of main group elements and bioinorganic chemistry
2.  Provide broad knowledge about properties and applications of compounds of main group
elements and metal ions essential in biological systems.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Appreciate chemistry of elements essential in biological systems.
2.  To understand structure and bonding concepts in chemistry of s- and p-block elements
and systematic understanding of their chemical reactivity
Chemistry of main group elements: VSEPR and Point group symmetry, Synthesis, structure
and bonding in polyhedral boranes and carboranes, Wade’s Rules, electron count, Isolobal
analogy. B-N, P-N, S-N unit containing compounds. Silanes, Silicon halides, Silicates,
silanols, Zeolites. Hydrides, halides, oxides, nitrides of s- and p- block elements.  Allotropes
of Carbon. Chemistry of halogens and Noble gases, Acid-base concept, Chemistry of S-block
elements. Organometallic compounds of main group elements. (15 Lectures)
Spectroscopic Characterization: NMR to study fluxionality and dynamic behavior in
Applications of main group compounds: Frustrated Lewis pairs and small molecule
activation,Synthetic uses of main group complexes, Oxidizing/reducing agents. Precursors
for materials deposition. Deposition of thin films of materials, with a strong focus on
Chemical Vapour Deposition (CVD) and ALD.  (9 Lectures)
PET and SPECT imaging: Overview of the development of radio-labelled p-block complexes
for applications in PET and SPECT imaging (2 Lectures)
Bioinorganic Chemistry: Transition metals in biology - their occurrence and function, active-
site structure, Metalloenzymes; O2 binding properties of heme (hemoglobin and myoglobin)
and non-heme proteins hemocyanin & hemerythrin), co-operativity effect, Bohr Effect;
representative synthetic models of heme and nonheme systems. Electron transfer proteins -
active site structure and functions of ferredoxin, rubredoxin and cytochromes, and their
comparisons. Vitamin B12 and cytochrome P450 and their mechanisms of action. Metals in
medicine. (12 Lectures)
1.  Huheey, J. E., (2008), Inorganic Chemistry, 4th edition, Pearson
2.  Housecroft, C. E., and Sharpe, A. G., (2012), Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Edition, Pearson
3.  Miessler G. L., (2014), Inorganic Chemistry, 4th edition, Pearson
1.  S. J. Lippard (1994) Principles of Bioinorganic Chemistry, University Science Books.
2.  Norman, N. C., (2014), Periodicity and the p-Block Elements, Oxford Primer Nos. 51,2nd
Edition, Oxford University Press
3.  Atkins, P. (2010) Inorganic Chemistry, 5th Edition, Oxford University Press
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Balakrishna, M. S., Chemistry of Main Group Elements, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay,
2.  Ray, D., Bioinorganic Chemistry, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemistry,
Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/104105031/
Transition Metal and
Offered for  M.Sc. (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  To provide students with an overview of transition metal chemistry which form a
foundation for students pursuing further studies in chemistry
2.  To provide students fundamental of organometallic compounds and their practical
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand the properties and reactivites of selected transition metal complexes with
their structure and bonding
2.  Utilize the principles of transition metal coordination complexes in understanding
reactivity and properties of organometallic compounds
Coordination  Compounds:    Survey  of  various  ligands,  coordination,  thermodynamic
stability, Isomerism, Irving-William series, chelate and macrocyclic effect. (5 Lectures)
Bonding in Coordination Complexes: VBT, CFT and MOT, Crystal Field Stabilization Energies
and its applications, High and low spin complex, Jahn-Teller theorem. (8 Lectures)
Reaction  mechanisms  in  Coordination  complexes  -  substitution  reactions  in  complexes,
influence,  water  exchange,  anation  and  base  hydrolysis,
trans  effect  and
stereochemistry, inner and outer sphere electron transfer mechanism (4 Lectures)
Spectroscopic  properties:  Colors, Selection  rules.  Splitting  of  the  free  ion  energy  levels  in
complexes. Term Symbol, Orgel, and Tanabe-Sugano diagrams. (6 Lectures)
Magnetic Properties: Origin of Magnetic moment, Effect of orbital contributions.(2 Lectures)
Bonding and properties of organometallic compounds:  Ligands (carbonyl, olefins,
phosphine, hydride, alkyls, carbines, carbenes). Compounds with carbonyl, olefins, EAN
rule. Classification of ligands-sigma, pi-donor, pi-acceptor.(7 Lectures)
Bonding in organometallics: sigma and pi-back bonding, synthesis of organometallic
compounds. Characterization by FTIR. (3 Lectures)
Organometallic Reaction and Catalysis: Oxidative addition, reductive elimination, CO
insertion and migration reactions. Applications of Organometallic compounds in
homogeneous catalysis – isomerization, hydrogenation, hydroformylation, Monsanto acetic
acid synthesis, C-C coupling reactions, polymerization and metathesis. (6 Lectures)
1.  Weller, (2014), Inorganic Chemistry, 6th Edition, Oxford University Press
2.  Huheey, J. E. (2006), Inorganic chemistry: principles of structure and reactivity, 4th
3.  Crabtree, R. H. The Organometallic Chemistry of the Transition Metals, Wiley, 1998
1.  Kettle, S.F.A., (2010), Physical Inorganic Chemistry, A Coordination Chemistry
2.  Housecroft, C and Sharpe, A. G. (2012) Inorganic Chemistry, 4th Edition, Pearson
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Ray, D Coordination Chemistry, NPTEL course material, Department of Chemistry,
Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/104105033/
2.  Samuelson, A.G., Introduction to Organometallic Chemistry, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Inorganic and Physical Chemistry, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore,
Solid State and Material Chemistry  Number
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  To provide an overview of the relationships between molecular or solid state structures
and material properties.
2.  To provide an interdisciplinary understanding of solid state chemistry which aims to
provide an understanding of how molecular structure affects the properties of materials.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  The student will obtain required knowledge for understanding material science problems
and structure of solids.
2.  Insight into electronic structure of crystals and compare it with the electronic structure
of nanomaterials, chemical-physical fundamentals as well as basic method of
characterisation of solids.
Structure of Solids: Crystalline and Amorphous, diffraction techniques, symmetry and point
groups, packing in solids, classification, lattice energy, bonding, structures: NaCl, TiO2, ZnS,
wurtzite, Perovskite, covalent and ionic solids.(10 Lectures)
Crystal defects: non-stoichiometry, cluster, diffusion, Fick’s Law and Kirkendall effect,
Identification of defects using microscopic characterization techniques.(6 Lectures)
Solid state reaction: Chemical and Physical Methods of preparation, reactivity of solids,
decomposition mechanism, single crystal growth and thin film deposition. (10 Lectures)
Band theory: Intrinsic and extrinsic semiconductors, insulators, density of states, Dielectrics,
Hall effect, Thomson, Peltier and Seeback effects.(Lectures 8)
Properties of Solids: Magnetic, Electrical and Optical properties, Different type of Magnetism
and Superconductivity, Introduction to nanomaterials and properties.(Lectures 6)
1.  B. D. Cullity and S. R. Stock, (2014), Elements of X-ray diffraction, 3rd edition, Pearson
2.  West, A.R., (2015), Solid State Chemistry and Its Applications, 2nd edition, John Wiley &
3.  Lesley E Smart and Elaine E Moore, (2005), Solid State Chemistry: An Introduction, 3rd
Edition, Taylor and Francis
4.  R. Balasubramaniam (2014), Callister's Materials Science and Engineering, 2nd Edition,
1.  Cheetham, A.K. and Day, P., (1997), Solid State Chemistry Compounds, 2nd Edition,
Clarendon Press, Oxford
2.  Harry R. Allcock, (2008), Introduction to Materials Chemistry, 1st Edition, Wiley.
3.  C N R Rao and J Gopalkrishnan, (2004) New Directions in Solid State Chemistry, 2nd
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Subramaniam, A, Structure of Materials, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Materials Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,
Quantum Chemistry and Spectroscopy
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  Attempt to provide an advanced level understanding of quantum chemistry
2.  Will show a few applications of quantum mechanics to chemistry
3.  Establish the relation between fundamentals of spectroscopy and quantum chemistry
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand quantum mechanics and applications to chemistry problems such as
minimum energy path search, single point calculation and geometry optimization.
2.  Apply spectroscopic methods as analytical tool in chemistry, biology, material science,
Fundamentals: Old Quantum theory, Correspondence principle, Bohr-Sommerfeld
quantization, Wave-particle duality, Stern-Gerlach experiment (9 lectures)
Mathematical Formalism: Operators, Eigenfunctions and eigenvalues, Operators in quantum
mechanics, expectation values, Theorems of Quantum Mechanics, Commuting and non-
commuting operators, Angular momentum (10 lectures)
Exactly Solvable Problems: Time independent and time dependent wave equation, Particle
confined to infinite and finite potential wells, Harmonic oscillator, Rigid rotor, Hydrogen atom
Approximation Methods: Variational principle, Perturbation theory, Energy and wave function
corrections, Born-Oppenheimer approximation (8 lectures)
Introduction to spectroscopy: Introduction to rotational, vibrational spectroscopy, electronic
transitions, Frank-Condon principle, vertical transitions – selection rules, parity, symmetry
and spin selection rule (5 lectures)
1.  Levine, I. N., (1983), Quantum Chemistry, 3rd Edition, Allyn and Bacon
1.  McQuarrie,D. A., (1983), Quantum Mechanics, 2nd Edition, University Science Books
2.  Bernath,P. F., (2005), Spectra of Atoms and Molecules, 2nd Edition, Oxford University
3.  Banwell,C. N., (2010), Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy, 4th Edition, Tata
McGraw Hill, New Delhi
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Krishnan, M. S., Introduction to Quantum Chemistry and Molecular Spectroscopy, NPTEL
Course Material, Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Madras,
Molecular Thermodynamics and Chemical
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the connection between microscopic theory and thermodynamics.
2.  Describe how complex phenomena can be transferred into simple models.
The students are expected to:
1.  Predict properties of many-body systems starting from its microscopic
constituents and their interactions
2.  Connect microscopic theory to chemical reaction
(fractal 1, Thermodynamics and Enzyme Kinetics by BSBE) Thermodynamics:
thermodynamics laws, state and path functions and their applications; thermodynamic
description of various types of processes; Maxwell’s relations; spontaneity and equilibria (5
temperature and pressure dependence of thermodynamic quantities; Le Chatelier’s principle
(Module 3 of Applied Thermodynamics by ME) Introduction to Statistical methods: Micro and
macro states, canonical, micro canonical and grand canonical ensemble, Boltzmann
distribution; kinetic theory of gases; partition functions, thermodynamic properties from
partition functions for model systems; Debye-Huckel theory (12 lectures).
(fractal 1, Thermodynamics and Enzyme Kinetics by BSBE) Chemical Kinetics: Empirical rate
laws and temperature dependence; complex reactions; steady state approximation, enzyme
kinetics ; determination of reaction mechanisms (10 lectures)
Mechanism: Theory of reaction rates, activation energy, transition state theory, potential
energy surface, uni-molecular reaction rate, salt effects (10 lectures).
1.  D. McQuarrie and J. D. Simon, (2014) Molecular Thermodynamics, Viva Books.
2.  D. McQuarrie, (2011) Physical Chemistry, A Molecular Approach, Viva Books.
Self Learning Material
1.  D. McQuarrie, (2000) Statistical Mechanics, University Science Books.
2.  K. J. Laidler, (2013) Chemical Kinetics, Pearson.
Preparatory Course Material
1.  V.Balakrishnan, Department of Physics, IIT Madras. http://nptel.iitm.ac.in
2.  Leonard Susskind, Statistical Mechanics, Stanford University,
3.  De, A. K. Advanced Chemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics, NPTEL Course Material,
Chemical Sciences, IISER Mohali, https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc18_cy20/
Theory and Applications of Spectroscopic
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce to a few spectroscopic methods used as analytical techniques in various fields
of science and engineering.
2.  Introduce to theoretical background of these methods along with their instrumentation
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand the theoretical background of various spectroscopic techniques.
2.  Apply spectroscopic methods as analytical tool in chemistry, biology, material science,
Introduction to Spectroscopy: properties of electromagnetic radiation, interaction of
radiation with matter, Stimulated and Spontaneous processes, Einstein coefficient, Rabi
Oscillation, intensity of spectral line and line shape, Fourier Transformation, General
understanding of spectroscopic selection rule (6 lectures)
UV-vis and Fluorescence Spectroscopy: Basic principles, Laws of photochemistry, Jablonski
diagram, Frank-Condon principle, quantum yield expression and Stern-Volmer equation,
FRET. (8 lectures)
Infrared and Raman Spectroscopy: Basic principle; Organic functional group identification
through IR spectroscopy, IR and Raman activity. (12 lectures)
NMR Spectroscopy: Basic principle, Zeeman splitting, chemical shift and spin-spin coupling,
introduction to AB, AX, AMX spin system, 1D 1H and 13C NMR for structure elucidation,
Polarization transfer methods and NOE (10 lectures)
EPR Spectroscopy: basic principle, Electron-nuclear hyperfine interaction, theory of first
order EPR spectra, analysis of 1st Order spectra, example of EPR spectra of organic radicals
and transition metal complexes.  (5 lectures)
1.  Gunther, H., (1995), NMR Spectroscopy, 2nd Edition, Wiley
2.  Banwell, C. N., (1994), Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy, 3rd Edition, Tata
McGraw-Hill Book Company
3.  Lakowicz, J. R., (2006), Principles of Fluorescence Spectroscopy, 3rd Edition, Springer,
1.  Bernath, P. F., (2005), Spectra of Atoms and Molecules, 2nd Edition, Oxford University
2.  Silverstein, R. M. and Webster, F. M., (2010), Spectroscopic Identification of Organic
Compounds, 6th Edition, Wiley
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Mangal Sundar, K.,  Introduction to Quantum Chemistry and Molecular Spectroscopy,
2.  Trivedi, V. and Chaudhary, N., Bioanalytical Techniques and Bioinformatics, Department
of Biotechnology, http:// http://nptel.ac.in/courses/ 102103044.
3.  Das, R., Principles and Applications of Electron Paramagnetic Resonance Spectroscopy,
Department of Chemical Sciences, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/104106048/2
Laboratories and Hands-on
Organic Chemistry Laboratory
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1. Give students a practical understanding of the theoretical phenomenons.
2. Provide an exposure to the laboratory techniques for the purification and isolation of organic
The students are expected to:
1. Learn basic experimental techniques in organic chemistry
2. Be able to carry out simple synthetic organic transformations and isolate the reaction
Extraction: separation of an acidic, a basic and a neutral substance
Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC): extraction and TLC of spinach pigments
Hands on Reactions and Purifications by Column Chromatography: Wittig olefination, Henry
reaction (Nitro-Aldol reaction), Grignard reaction etc..
Distillation: Separation of compounds based on boiling point
Elimination Reaction: Dehydration of methylcyclohexanols to methylcyclohexene
Cycloaddition: The Diels-Alder reaction of a conjugated diene either in eucalyptus oil or other
Aromatic Substitution: The Friedel-Crafts acylation of ferrocene
Functional Group Interconversion: Reduction and oxidation of organic compounds
Drug Synthesis: Synthesis of Aspirin from Salicylic Acid
Green Chemistry: A Solvent-Free Aldol Condensation
1.  Vogel, A. I., Textbook of Practical Organic Chemistry, Pearson
1.  Ault, A., Techniques and Experiments for Organic Chemistry, University Science Books
Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory
The Instructor will:
1. Emphasize on the different techniques of reaction set-up (air-sensitive, moisture-sensitive
etc. involved in the synthesis, isolation and purification of inorganic compounds.
2. Expose students to various spectroscopic identification and characterization techniques.
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the basic principles behind the synthesis and properties of inorganic
2. Plan and Conduct experiments for synthesis and characterizing inorganic compounds.
Non-metal complex: Synthesis and characterization of bispyridine iodide nitrate; Solid phase
synthesis and characterization of trans-bis glycinato copper(II); Synthesis of penta
amminechlorocobalt(III)chloride and its spectroscopic properties; Influence of ligand field
tetragonality on the ground state spin of nickel(II) complexes with NH3 and H2O and
ethylene diamine; Preparation and magnetic properties of FeIII(acac) complex; Preparation
of TiO2 from Titanium Isopropoxide; Preparation and Characterization of Hydroxyapatite;
Luminescent Ruthenium Complexes. Synthesis of RuHCl(CO)(PPh3)3 complex and its
characterisation by 1H, 31P NMR and IR spectroscopy
1. G. S. Girolami, T. B. Rauchfuss, R. J. Angelici Synthesis and Technique in Inorganic
Chemistry, University Science Books, 3rd Ed, 1999.
2. Elias, A. J., A Collection of Interesting General Chemistry Experiments, Universities
Press(India) Pvt. Ltd., 2002
1. J. Derek Woolins, Inorganic Experiments, 3rd Edition, Wiley, 2010.
2. Roesky, H. W.; Muckel, K., Chemical Curiosities: spectacular experiments and inspired
quotes, VCH, 1996.
3. Handouts prepared for the laboratory experiments: collections from various literature
sources (ACS Chemical Education)
Self Learning Material
John Dolhun. 5.301 Chemistry Laboratory Techniques. January IAP 2012. Massachusetts
Institute of Technology: MIT Open Courseware, https://ocw.mit.edu.
Physical Chemistry Laboratory
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  Introduction to the different spectroscopic and analytical techniques.
2.  Introduction to the instrumentation and application of these methods.
3.  Enable students to use such methods whenever needed by giving hands on experience
with available instruments in the institute.
The students are expected to:
1.  Clear understanding of different analytical instruments.
2.  Experimental verification of fundamental concept
3.  Application of spectroscopic techniques as analytical tool in chemistry.
1.  Determination of the pI of an Amino Acid using pHmeter.
2.  Determination of critical micellar concentration by conductometry and calculation of free
energy of micellization
3.  Determination of Heat Capacity of metals by Dynamic Scanning Calorimeter and
verification of Dulong and Petit Method
4.  Determination of the ligand-protein binding constant using Fluorescence quenching
5.  Determination of 1H spin-lattice relaxation time by NMR Inversion Recovery method
6.  Determination of Gibbs free energy of the keto-enol tautomerism by 1H NMR
7.  Determination of bromobenzene surface coverage on silica by FTIR
8.  Study of surface properties (surface energy and surface tension) of various surfaces and
9.  Study of Redox reactions for understanding the reversibility of the reactions using cyclic
10. Surface Adsorption Kinetics of Dyes on activated carbon using UV-Visible
Text   Text Books
1.  Halpern, A. M.; McBane, G. C. Experimental Physical Chemistry: A laboratory Textbook,
3rd ed. W. H. Freeman, 2006.
Literature papers from ACS Chemical Education
Pre-requisite  CY 524 (Chemical Binding)
Computational Chemistry Laboratory
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide the connection between theory and experiments
2.  Provide the understanding of how complex phenomena can be transferred into simple
The students are expected to:
1.  Learn tools and techniques used in computational chemistry.
2.  Develop computational skills related to chemistry.
1.Drawing the geometry of a molecule - Read XYZ coordinates - measure bond distances and
2.Using a fixed nuclear geometry, compute the ground state electronic energy of a molecule
using Hartree-Fock, MP2, and DFT.
3.Perform geometry optimization (energy minimization) using different theories.
4.Compute the vibrational frequencies and differentiate a minimum and a saddle point.
5.Calculate potential energy profile and intrinsic reaction coordinate of a reaction.
6.Learn visualizing bulk system using computer (VMD).
7.Build bonded and non-bonded potential parameters after geometry optimization.
8.Energy minimization of a bulk system at meso-scale.
9.Different ensembles, NVT, NPT, NVE.
1.  Levine, I. N., (1983), Quantum Chemistry, 3rd Edition, Allyn and Bacon
2.  Molecular Modelling: Principles and Applications, Andrew Leach, 2nd Edition, Pearson.
3.  Daan Frenkel and Berend Smit, (2002) Understanding Molecular Simulation,
1.  Mark E. Tuckerman, Statistical Mechanics, (2010) Theory and Molecular Simulations,
Oxford University Press.
2.  Szabo, A.and Ostlund, N.S. (1996), Modern Quantum Chemistry, Dover.
Course Title  Hands On -1
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  Provide the students hands-on training using the available characterization tools .
2.  Provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to conduct laboratory research,
understand instrument design and analyze instrumental results.
The students are expected to:
1.  Clear understanding of different analytical instruments.
2.  Experimental verification of fundamental concept
3.  Application of spectroscopic techniques as analytical tool in chemistry.
1.  NMR Working principles and instrumentation
2.  Single Crystal X-Ray Diffraction  Working principles and instrumentation
3.  Electroanalytical Methods (Ampereometry, Cyclic Voltametry, EIS spectroscopy etc)
4.  SEM Working principles and instrumentation
5.  AFM Working principles and instrumentation
6.  UV-Vis Working principles and instrumentation
7.  IR Working principles and instrumentation
8.  TGA/DSC Working principles and instrumentation
9.  BET Surface Area Analyser Working principles and instrumentation
10. PXRD Working principles and instrumentation
1.  Halpern, A. M.; McBane, G. C. Experimental Physical Chemistry: A laboratory Text
Book, 3rd ed. W. H. Freeman, 2006.
1.  Literature References from ACS Chemical Education
Course Title  Hands on -2
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  Provide the students hands-on training using the available characterization tools .
2.  Provide students with the knowledge and skills needed to conduct laboratory research,
understand instrument design and analyze instrumental results.
The students are expected to:
1.  Have clear understanding of different analytical instruments.
2.  Experimental verification of fundamental concept
3.  Application of spectroscopic techniques as analytical tool in chemistry.
1.  Chromatographic Techniques (GC and HPLC) in Organic Analysis
2.  Fluorescence Spectroscopy and its application
3.  Synthesis techniques and laboratory practices
4.  OriginPro Data Analysis and Plotting of graphs
5.  MERCURY and ENCIFER Crystal structure viewing
6.  MATLAB for data analysis: basic plotting techniques; curve fitting; and simple linear
7.  Chem Draw for drawing molecular structures
8.  Mathematica for mathematical data handling
9.  Technical communication - presentation, literature search
10. Scifinder for literature search
11. Analysis and identification of organic compounds by 1H NMR, Mass spectrometry and IR
12. Modeling of intermediate and transition state of organic reactions
1.  Halpern, A. M.; McBane, G. C. Experimental Physical Chemistry: A laboratory Text Book,
3rd ed. W. H. Freeman, 2006.
1.  Online resources from ACS Chemical Education
2.  Hunt, B. R. et al., A guide to MATLAB: For beginners and experienced user, 2nd Edition,
University Press, Cambridge, 2006
3.  ChemDraw user guide: http://media.cambridgesoft.com/support/15/ChemDrawHelp.pdf
4.  McMahon, D, A & Topa, D. M., A beginners guide to Mathematica, Chapman & Hall/CRC,
Catalysis for Energy
MSc./PhD (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  To give a overview about defining a roadmap for the role of catalysis in energy
2.  Relate catalysis with fuel cells, hydrogen production and storage, methane storage and
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Understand role and the possibilities of catalysis in the production of new energy carriers
and in the utilization of different energy sources.
2.  to go beyond conventional application identifying new developments that may lead to
breakthroughs in the production of alternative energy.
Catalysis: Introduction to heterogeneous catalysis, including models of surface reactivity,
surface equilibria, kinetics of surface reactions, electronic and geometrical effects in
heterogeneous catalysis.(Lectures 14)
Catalytic reactions and application: Trends in reactivity, catalyst structure and composition,
electro-catalysis and photo-catalysis.(Lectures 12)
Selected applications and challenges in energy transformations: fuel cells, hydrogen
production, OER and HER reactions, CO2 oxidation, methane and hydrogen storage and
industrial catalysis. (Lecture 14)
1.  Hanefeld, U, Lefferts, L. (2018) Catalysis: An Integrated Textbook for Students, 1st
1.  Okada, Tatsuhiro, Kaneko, Masao, (2009), Molecular Catalysts for Energy Conversion
2.  Guczi, László, Erdôhelyi, András, Catalysis for Alternative Energy Generation, Springer.
3.  Pierluigi Barbaro, Claudio Bianchini, Catalysis for Sustainable Energy Production, Wiley
Self Learning Material
1.   Xile Hu, Angamuthu, R and Bera, J. K., Catalysis for Energy Storage, GIAN Course
material, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,
Nanomaterials and Nanodevices
MSc/PhD (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  Underlying scientific basis for the behavior of nanomaterials
2.  Methods of synthesis, fabrication and characterization of nanomaterials
3.  Scope of nanomaterials and potential translation as products
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1.  Able to describe the basic science behind the properties of materials at the nanometer
2.  Learn principles behind advanced experimental techniques for studying nanomaterials
3.  Systematically solve scientific problems related specifically to Nano technological
Concepts, Definitions and Examples: Nanoscale processes, nanosystems, nanostructures,
important nanomaterials such as clusters, nanocrystals, nanotubes and nanowires. (2
Size-dependent properties: Quantum confinement, Bandgap, Surface effects in
nanosystems. Optical, mechanical, electronic and magnetic properties along with surface
Synthesis of nanomaterials: Top-down and bottom-up, soft versus hard methods, chemical
and physical methods, hybrid methods for synthesis of nanomaterials.(6 Lectures)
Experimental methods for study of nanomaterials:  Electron microscopes (SEM and TEM),
scanning probe microscope (AFM and STM), X- ray photoelectron spectroscopy, BET surface
area, electroanalytical techniques and miscellaneous methods (6 Lectures)
Nanolithography for Nanodevices: Concepts and methods; fabrication of devices, clean room
practices, optical, electron, ion- beam lithography, soft lithography, micromolding,
nanoimprint lithography. (6 Lectures)
Applications: Translating nanomaterials and nanodevices as commercial products.(4
Synthesis of metal nanoparticles, Particle size analysis by UV Visible spectroscopy,
synthesis of semiconducting ZnO nanoparticles, quantum dots, optical band gap analysis by
emission spectrum, SEM imaging, AFM analysis, patterning by Photo/Soft
Lithography,graphene synthesis and surface property analysis
1.  Pradeep, T., (2012), Textbook of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Mc Graw Hill
2.  C. N. R. Rao, P. J. Thomas and G. U. Kulkarni (2007)Nanocrystals: Synthesis, Properties
1.  Nalwa, H. S., (2004), Encyclopedia of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Edition
American Scientific Publishers, Los Angeles
2.  Rao, C.N.R. and Govindaraj, A., (2005), Nanotubes and nanowires, RSC Publishing
3.  C. N. R. Rao, P. J. Thomas and G. U. Kulkarni (2007)Nanocrystals: Synthesis, Properties
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Subramaniam, A., Balani, K. Nanostructures and Nanomaterials: Characterization and
Properties, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Materials Science & Engineering,
Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/118104008/;
Compounds of p-block elements and
M.Sc./PhD (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  To give better insights into the interesting class of compounds such as rings, clusters,
polymers and low valent complexes of the main-group elements.
2.  To learn about the synthesis, structure and properties of inorganic heterocyclic and
3.  To discuss about structure, properties and reactivity of clusters and cages of main group
The students are expected to:
1.  Appreciate the interesting class of compounds such as rings, clusters and polymers of
main group metal compounds.
2.  Gain deeper insights into the synthesis and reactivity of novel main group compounds.
3.  Understand structure-property relationships and applications of inorganic, organometallic
polymers and low valent compounds.
Inorganic  Rings:  Synthesis,  structure  and  reactivity  of  compounds  containing  heterocyclic
rings  of  elements  such  as  Phosphorus,  Boron,  Silicon,  Tin  and  Aluminum.  Structure  and
reactivity  of  compounds  containing  homocyclic  rings  of  germanium,  boron,  silicon,
aluminum. Synthesis and properties of inorganic macrocycles. (10 Lectures)
Clusters:  Clusters  and  Cages  of  Main  Group  Elements,  Boron  Hydrides  and  Carboranes.
Homo and Heteropolyatomic Anions of the Post-Transition Elements. (8 Lectures)
Inorganic  polymers:  Synthesis,  structure-property  relationships  and  applications  of
Polysiloxanes, Polyphosphazenes, polysilanes and organometallic polymers. (10 Lectures)
Chemistry  of  Low  valent  compounds:  Low  valent  compounds  of  main  group  elements,
Recent advances in NHCs and their analogous group 13, 14 and 15 compounds. (6 Lectures)
Applications:  Main  group  element  containing  rings,  clusters  and  polymers  as  single  source
precursors  for  nanomaterials.  Low  valent  compounds  in  small  molecule  activation.  (9
1. Chivers, T. and Manners, I., (2009), Inorganic Rings and Polymers of the p-Block
Elements, 1st Edition, Royal Society of Chemistry
1. R. D. Archer, (2001), Inorganic and Organometallic Polymers, Wiley
2. H. R. Allcock, (2003), Chemistry and Applications of Polyphosphazenes, Wiley
3. V. Chandrasekhar, (2005), Inorganic and Organometallic Polymers, Springer-Verlag
4. M. Driess, (2004), Molecular Clusters of the Main Group Elements, Wiley-VCH
5. P. Atkins, (2008), Inorganic Chemistry, Indian Edition, 4th Ed, Oxford University Press
Preparatory Course Material
1. Balakrishna, M. S., Chemistry of Main Group Elements, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay,
Advanced Materials Design
M.Sc./PhD (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide a comprehensive overview of synthesis and characterization of bulk materials,
nanoparticles, nanocomposites and hierarchical materials with nanoscale features.
2.  cover the fundamental scientific principles controlling assembly of nanostructured
3.  materials; synthesis, characterization tools; new properties at the nanoscale, and
4.  existing and emerging applications of nanomaterials
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand a variety of different methods for synthesizing materials.
2.  Evaluate the synthesis methods against each other and be able to make assessments as
to what form the final products will be.
3.  Should be able to assess appropriate methods for the synthesis of stable nanomaterials
Introduction to Materials Chemistry: Structure, property and their relationship with materials
performance (3 Lectures)
Semiconducting  Materials  Chemistry:  Semiconductor  Devices,  Phase  Change  Materials  in
Memory  Technology,  Thermoelectric,  Superconductors,  Topological  Insulators,  Emerging
materials in the device industry such as graphene and 2D materials.(8 Lectures)
Optical/Opto-electronic  Materials:  Light  Emitting  Diodes,  Photosensors,  Photovoltaics  (6
Structural  &  Basic  Applied  Materials:  Structural  Materials,  Amorphous  Materials,  Smart  &
Responsive Materials, Bio-inspired materials (8 Lectures)
Thermal Materials Application: Thermochromics (2 Lectures)
Energy  Materials:  Batteries  and  Supercapacitors,  Fuel  Cells,Hydrogen  generation,Hydorgen
storage, Carbon capture and sequestration (12 Lectures)
Student Seminars on Selected Topics from above
1.  Fahlman, Bradley, (2011), Materials Chemistry, 3rd Edition, Springer
2.  P. Yang (2003), The Chemistry of Nanostructured Materials, 1st Edition, World Scientific
Publishing Company, Singapore
1.  G. Cao, (2004), Nanostructures and Nanomaterials: Synthesis, Properties and
Applications, Imperial College Press: Hackensack, NJ
2.  Goldstein, J.I. et al. (1992), Scanning Electron Microscopy and X-Ray Microanalysis: A
Textbook for Biologists, Materials Scientists and Geologists, 2nd Edition, Springer, US.
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Qureshi, M. Chemistry of Materials, NPTEL Course Material, Indian Institute of
Technology Guwahati, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/104103019/2
Characterization Techniques in
The instructor will:
1.  To provide introduction to various characterization methods that are applied to inorganic
The students are expected to:
1.  Appreciate different important characterization methods that are applied to inorganic
2.  Analyze the chemical and physical characterization of molecular (solution and solid-state)
inorganic chemical systems.
Fundamental aspects of characterisation methods in inorganic chemistry.
Molecular Symmetry: Point group analysis of simple inorganic compounds. Infrared and Raman
spectroscopy of simple inorganic molecules; predicting number of active modes of vibrations,
analysis of representative spectra of metal complexes with various functional groups. (6
Electronic spectroscopy: electronic absorption and emission spectroscopy (4 Lectures)
Multinuclear NMR: Use of 1H and 13C NMR to study  fluxionality and dynamics in inorganic and
organometallic chemical systems;  NMR spectral analyses of B, Al, Si, F,  and P containing
compounds. Inorganic and Organometallic compounds of some other NMR active nuclei will
also be discussed. (11 Lectures)
EPR: Elementary aspects of Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy of inorganic
compounds- g-values, hyperfine and super hyperfine coupling constants; selected applications
in inorganic chemistry. (5 Lectures)
Mass spectrometry: basic principles, ionization techniques, isotope abundance, molecular ion;
illustrative examples from supramolecules, inorganic/coordination and organometallic
compounds. (5 Lectures)
X-ray and Photoelectron Spectroscopy: Electron microscopy and energy dispersive analysis of
X-rays (5 Lectures)
Cyclic voltammetry: Introduction to cyclic voltammetry and discussion on cyclic voltammogram
of some representative examples. (5 Lectures)
1.  R. S. Drago, Physical Methods for Chemists, 2nd Edition, Saunders, 1992.
1. M. Weller,  Inorganic Chemistry, 6th Edition, Oxford University Press, 2014.
2. J. E. Huheey, Inorganic Chemistry, Principles of Structure and Reactivity, 4th Edition,
3. F. A. Cotton, Advanced Inorganic Chemistry, 6th Edition, Wiley, 2007.
4. A. Abragam and B. Bleaney, Electron Paramagnetic Resonance of Transition Ions, Oxford
University Press, 1970. (Reprint Edition 2013)
Preparatory Course Material
1. Alagarsamy P, Characterization of Materials NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati,https://nptel.ac.in/courses/115103030/
Course Title   Advance Catalysis
Offered for   MSc/PhD (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  Provide knowledge of key aspects of organometallic chemistry including the different
binding modes of organic ligands, variation in oxidation states and electron counts.
2.  Provide an understanding of the fundamental types of organometallic reaction, such as
The students are expected to:
1.   understand some fundamental organometallic transformations that underpin the catalytic
formation of carbon-containing species.
2.  understand basic knowledge, skills and experience useful to those students progressing
into the chemical industry and research in the area of catalysis
Fundamentals of Catalysis :Definition, reaction coordinate diagram, homogeneous catalysis,
mechanism,  catalytic  cycle,  fundamental  organometallic  processes,  ligand  substitution,
oxidative  addition,  migratory  insertion,  transmetallation,  reductive  elimination,  transition
metals  versus  homogeneous  catalysts,  turnover  limiting  step,  features  of  a  catalytic
process, Effective Atomic Number Rule (18-electron-rule). (8 Lectures)
Stereochemistry  and  Selectivity:  Concepts  and  Definitions,    Isomers,  constitution,
configuration  enantiomers  and  diastereomers,  conformation,  stereochemical  terms-a
primer, optical activity, methods for determination of enantiomeric excess-chiral stationary
phase (CSP) GC and CSP-HPLC  and NMR. (8 Lectures)
Consequences  of  diastereoisomerism:  (i)  resolution  of  enantiomers  via  formation  of
diastereomeric salts, (ii) resolution via chromatography (GC and HPLC), (iii) identification of
absolute  stereochemistry,  (iv)  determination  of  enantiomeric  ratio  (er),  or  enantiomeric
excess  (ee),  NMR  shift  reagents,  (iv)  diastereoselective  synthesis,  (v)  kinetic  resolution,
examples and (vi) enantioselective synthesis, examples. (7 Lectures)
Hammond  Postulate:  Kinetic  and  Thermodynamic  Control.    Kinetic  and  thermodynamic
control,  use  of  energy  diagrams,  examples:  DBr  addition  to  1,3-butadiene,  enolate
formation  from  2-methylcyclohexanone,  Hammond  postulate,  examples:  Markovnikov
regioselectivity  of  HX  addition  to  monosubstituted  alkenes,  Orientation  in  electrophilic
aromatic substitution reactions (7 Lectures)
Asymmetric  Catalysis  Using  Organometallic  Reagents:  Hammond  Postulate  and  Curtin
Hammett  Concepts,  Methods  and  Origin  of  Selectivity.  CurtinHammett  principle,reactivity
ofconformations  pyrolytic  elimination,
for  predicting  acyclic
stereoselection,  [Rh(L*)]+  X–  ,  L*  =chiral  ligand)]-catalyzed asymmetric  hydrogenation  of
dehydroamino-acids  for  the  synthesis  of  enantiopure  alpha-amino-acids  Diastereomeric
intermediates  and  origin  of  selectivity,  Pd(0)-catalyzed  allylation  of  stabilized  carbon
nucleophiles and Rh Catalyzed hydrogenation two classical examples with different reaction
profiles (10 Lectures)
F A Cotton, G. Wilkinson, C A Murillo and M Bochmann, Advanced Inorganic Chemistry, 6th ed,
C Elschenbroich and A Salzer, Organometallics, VCH Publishers, 1st ed 1989, 2nd ed 1993.
R H Crabtree, The Organometallic Chemistry of the Transition Metals, Wiley, 1998
C Masters, Homogeneous Transition-metal Catalysis - A Gentle Art, Chapman and Hall, 1981
Course Title   Water Chemistry
Pre-requisite    Consent of Teacher
The instructor will:
1.  Provide the objective of this course is to provide a fundamental and advance understanding
of the chemical and biochemical processes that are involved in water treatment for
drinking purposes and treatment of industrial and domestic wastewaters for water reuse
and discharge to the environment
2.  Provide knowledge of the key chemical processes relevant to research in water chemistry
The students are expected to:
1.  Perform quantitative and qualitative interpretations for water quality analysis
2.  Apply concepts of chemical equilibrium to solve water related practical problems
Polar nature of water: Acids and bases, Buffering capacity of water (3 Lectures)
Equilibrium constant expressions: aqueous system including concentration, activities, activity
coefficients and pH of equilibrium. (4 Lectures)
Chemical reaction equation: Arrenhius and Bronsted-Lowry acids and bases (4 Lectures)
Ionization constant reactions and expressions: Self-Ionization of water, Solubility-product
expressions (4 Lectures)
Measurments:  pH, Filtration, Alkalinity and aqueous titrations (3 Lectures)
Cycling of water and residence time (3 Lectures)
Water availability, usage, quality: water treatment methods (5 Lectures)
Analytical methods for water quality analysis (6 lectures)
Measuring color in water, removing turbidity, acidity determination, alkalinity determination,
chloride in water, hardness test for water, dissolved oxyzen by winkler’s method
Sawyer, C., McCarty, P., & Parkin G, Chemistry for Environmental and Engineering Science.
5th Edition. Toronto: McGraw-Hill, 2003
Mark M. Benjamin, 2015, Water Chemistry, Waveland Press, Second Edition, ISBN 1-4786-
Werner Stumm, James J. Morgan, Aquatic Chemistry: Chemical Equilibria and Rates in Natural
Waters, 3rd Edition, Wiley
Kerry J. Howe, David W. Hand, John C. Crittenden, R. Rhodes Trussell, Principles of Water
Treatment,  George Tchobanoglous, Wiley
Preparatory Course Material
1.  NPTEL Lectures: https://nptel.ac.in/courses/122106030/
Frontiers in Organometallic Catalysis  Number
M.Sc. and Ph.D
Consent of teacher
1.  To impart advanced knowledge on frontiers of organometallic chemistry.
2.  To teach practical applications of organometallic compounds in homogeneous catalysis
particularly relevant to industrial applications.
1.  The learners are expected to gain knowledge of independent thinking in designing,
characterizing and fine tuning of organometallic complexes suitable for potential catalytic
2.  Learners will be able to delineate mechanistic proposal of catalytic reactions based on
available experimental data.
3.  Learners will have the update on current trends and challenges of organometallic chemistry
towards molecular activation and organic transformations focusing on sustainable
Introduction: Basics of organometallics, 18 e- rule, sigma and pi donor/acceptor ligands (5
Synthetic,  characterization  and  reactivity  strategies  of  Transition  Metal  hydrides  bearing
carbonyl,  nitrosyl,  carbene,  phosphine,  olefins,  and  so  on  as  ancillary  ligands.  Inert  bonds
(C-H,  C-C,  O-H,  N-H)  and  small  molecules  (H2,  CO,  CO2)  activation  mediated  by
organometallic complexes. (12 lectures)
Definition  and  concepts  of  catalysis:  Important  terminologies  in  catalysis    Hydrogenation,
dehydrogenation,  dehydrogenative  coupling  reactions,  hydrosilylation,  hydroformylation,
hydroamination, hydrocyanation, hydrozirconation, carbonylation, Wacker oxidation, Fischer
Tropsch  synthesis,  water  gas  shift  reaction,  Olefin  polymerisatization,  olefin  metathesis,
Mechanistic  pathway  interpretation:  Kinetic  studies,  Deuterium  Kinetic  Isotope  effect,  Rate
limiting step, Resting state, Scrambling experiments. (13 lectures)
Approaches towards Sustainability using organometallic complexes: Pincer catalysts design,
Utilization  of  CO2  and  other  feed  stocks;  Sustainable  Energy:  H2  economy,  Methanol
economy, Liquid organic hydrogen carrier. (6 lectures)
Frustrated  Lewis  pair  Chemistry:  Hydroboration,  carboboration,  small  molecule  activation,
catalysis. (5 lectures)
1.  Crabtree, R. H. The Organometallic Chemistry of the Transition Metals, Wiley, 1998
2.  Gupta, B. D.; Elias, A. J. Basic Organometallic Chemistry: Concepts, Syntheses and
Applications Paperback, Universities Press; 2nd Edition (May 30, 2013).
1.  Collman J. P.; Finke R. G.; Norton J. R. Principles & Applications of Organo-transition Metal
Chemistry, University Science Books
2.  Bhaduri S.; Mukesh, D. Homogeneous Catalysis: Mechanisms and Industrial Applications
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Maiti, D. Organometallic Chemistry, NPTEL Course Material, Indian Institute of Technology
Numerical Methods and Group
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  Basic mathematics and numerical techniques required for Chemistry students
2.  Knowledge on error analysis to be used for laboratory courses
3.  Provide the fundamentals of group theory to understand structure, chemical bonding and
The students are expected to:
1.  Ability to analyze data and perform error analysis on the data
2.  Ability to understand and appreciate the mathematical and group theoretical concepts behind
Mathematical Concepts: Vectors and Vector spaces, Operators, Orthogonal and Unitary
matrices, Diagonalization, Matrix eigenvalue problems, Systems of linear algebraic equations,
Determinants, Ordinary and partial differential equations, Fourier and Laplace transformation
Numerical Methods: Errors in Data, Absolute and relative errors, Distribution of Errors, Central
Limit Theorem, Linear regression and correlation, Interpolation, Roots of Equations, Algorithms
for Matrix (15 Lectures)
Group Theory: Symmetry elements and Point Groups, Group postulates and definitions, Group
multiplication tables, Subgroups and cosets, Symmetry classes and conjugates, Reducible and
irreducible representations, Representations and character tables, Group theory and quantum
mechanics, Group theory and chemical bonding, Applications of group theory to structures and
spectroscopy, Group theory and crystal symmetry (12 Lectures)
1.  Kreyszig, E., (2011) Advanced Engineering Mathematics, 9th Ed., Wiley
2.  Cotton, F. A., (2008) Chemical Applications of Group Theory, 3rd Ed., Wiley India
1. Louis, L., (1991) A Practical Guide to Data Analysis for Physical Science students, Cambridge
2. Louis, L., (2005) Mathematics for Science Students, Cambridge University Press
3. Arfken, W. and Harris, P. (2012) Mathematical Methods for Physicists, 7th Ed., Elsevier
4. Bishop, D. M., (1993), Group Theory and Chemistry, 2nd Ed., Dover Publications, New York
Preparatory Course Material:
1. Iyengar, S. R. K., Numerical Methods and Computation, NPTEL course material, Department
of Mathematics, IIT Delhi
2. Chandra, M., Chemical Applications of Symmetry and Group Theory, NPTEL course material,
Department of Chemistry, IIT Kanpur
Pre-requisite  CY 514 (Quantum Chemistry and
The Instructor will:
1. Provide high level understanding of a chemical bond using quantum mechanics.
2. Describe knowledge of modern techniques in quantum chemistry.
The students are expected to:
1.  Use modern quantum chemistry techniques to solve fundamental problems related to basic
2.  Understand a chemical bond.
Electronic structure: Variation theory, perturbation theory, electron spin, He atom, Pauli
exclusion principle, Slater determinant (13 lectures)
Electronic structure of diatomic molecules: Born Oppenheimer approximation, Atomic units,
Wave function based theory: Hartree-Fock theory, Electron correlation, Self-consistent field
wave function, Moller-Plesset theory, Coupled cluster formulation (12 lectures)
Density functional theory (DFT):  Principles of density functional theory, commercial
+ ion, H2 molecule, VB theory, MO theory, Semi-empirical methods (13 lectures)
functionals and applications (4 lectures)
1.  Levine, I. N., (2000) Quantum Chemistry, Pearson education.
2.  Lowe, J. P., (1995) Elementary Quantum Chemistry, Academic Press.
1.  Szabo, A. and Ostlund, N. S., (1996) Modern Quantum Chemistry, Dover.
Preparatory Course Material
K. Mangala Sunder, Introduction to Chemistry & Quantum Chemical Methods, NPTEL course
material, Department of Chemistry, IIT Madras, http://nptel.iitm.ac.in
Principles of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
M.Sc./PhD (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduction to Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) Spectroscopy with an emphasis on
the basic principle along with instrumentation and application.
2.  Enable students to understand the design of NMR experiments and analyze NMR
spectrum to extract information of interest.
3.  Introduce to NMR experiments by giving hands on experience on the instrument
available in the institute.
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand the theoretical background of solution state NMR.
2.  Apply NMR experimental methods as an analytical tool in chemistry, biology, material
science, medicine for structure and dynamic studies of molecules.
3.  Understand instrumentation of NMR spectrometer available in the institute.
Introduction to NMR: Spin density operator, concept of density matrix, Liouville-Von-
Neuman equation, the nuclear spin Hamiltonian- gyromagnetic ratio –energy level
Diagrams-Zeeman Splitting. (12 lectures)
Introduction to NMR parameters: Chemical shifts and couplings, longitudinal and transverse
relaxation process – Redfield relaxation theory – paramagnetic relaxation, correlation times
and relaxation times. (10 lectures)
Introduction to 1D Fourier Transform spectroscopy: Bloch equation in the rotating frame –
pulse sequence design – 1D 1H and 13C NMR for structure elucidation – measurement of
relaxation rates, Nuclear Overhauser effect, effect of chemical exchange. (10 lectures)
Introduction to 2D NMR, correlation spectroscopy: common pulse sequences –homo and
hetero nuclear correlation spectroscopy –examples of COSY, TOCSY and NOESY –
Application –chemical structure –biological processes – molecular dynamics etc.
aboratory demonstration of standard NMR experiments. (10 lectures)
1.  Farrar, T.C. and Becker, E.D., (1971), Pulse and Fourier Transform NMR, 1st Edition,
2.  Gunther, H., (1995), NMR Spectroscopy, 2nd Edition, Wiley
3.  Derome, A. E., (1987), Modern NMR Techniques for Chemistry Research, 1st Edition,
1.  Ernst, R. R., Bodenhausen, G. and Wokaun, A., (1987), Principles of Nuclear Magnetic
Resonance in One and Two Dimension, 2nd Edition, Clarendon Press
2.  Claridge, T. D. W., (1999), High Resolution NMR Techniques in Organic Chemistry, 1st
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Atreya, H. S., Principles and Applications of NMR Spectroscopy, NPTEL Course Material,
NMR Research Center, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore,
M.Sc. (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide fundamentals of quantum information and computation
2.  Impart the knowledge of modeling efficiencies of a protocol in real experimental
The students are expected to:
1. Use the concepts taught in class to various aspects of quantum information,
communication and cryptography
2. Understand and appreciate the technological evolution at theoretical and experimental
front in QIC
Basics of quantum information: Review of linear algebra and basic laws of quantum
mechanics, concept of bits and qubits, quantum gates, quantum parallelism, quantum
algorithms, density operators and its applications (10 Lectures)
Quantum entanglement and nonlocality: Classical and quantum correlations, separability
criterion, separable and entangled states, measures of two-qubit and multiqubit
entanglement, Bell-type inequalities, discord (12 Lectures)
Quantum Noise: Classical and Markov Processes, Quantum Operations, Examples of
Quantum Noise and Quantum Operations, Applications of Quantum Operations, Limitations
of the Quantum Operations Formalism (6 Lectures)
Applications: Cryptography, quantum teleportation, dense coding, entanglement swapping,
secret sharing, quantum games (10 Lectures))
Effects of noise on quantum information and computation (4 Lectures)
1.  Nielsen, M. A. and Chuang, I. L., (2000) Quantum Computation and Quantum
Information, 10th edition, Cambridge University Press.
2.  Vedral, V., (2006) Introduction to Quantum Information Science, 1st edition, Oxford
1.  Griffiths, D. J., (2006) Introduction to Quantum Mechanics, 2nd edition, Pearson Prentice
2.  Bouwmeester, D., Ekert, A. and Zeilinger, A., (2000) The Physics of Quantum
Information, 2nd edition, Springer.
3.  Bellac, M. L., (2006) A Short Introduction to Quantum Information and Quantum
Computation, 1st edition, Cambridge University Press.
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Goswami, D., Quantum Computing, Mathematics for Chemistry, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur
Molecular Dynamics Simulations
M.Sc./PhD (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
and their macroscopic properties
Provide high level understanding of the connection between dynamics of molecules
Describe knowledge of modern techniques in molecular simulations using high speed
The students are expected to:
interdisciplinary areas of Physics, Chemistry and Biology
Find explanations for phenomena related to soft condensed matter
Use modern simulation techniques to solve fundamental problems related to
Basics of Molecular Dynamics: Theoretical foundation of classical statistical mechanics,
Boltzmann’s relation, harmonic oscillator and harmonic baths, introduction to molecular
dynamics, Algorithms for equations of motions (10 lectures),
(few lectures overlap with “Computational Material Science” offered by Physics department)
Various ensembles: Purpose of ensembles in simulations, canonical ensembles, isobaric
ensembles, grand canonical ensembles, applications of ensembles, thermostat,  Barostat (10
Advance Techniques: Free energy perturbation theory, Thermodynamic Integration,
Jarzynski’s equality, Umbrella Sampling (10 lectures)
Applications:  How to set up Membrane system, protein and small biological molecules (10
1.  D. Frenkel and B. Smith, (2002), Understanding Molecular Dynamics Simulations,1st
Edition, Academic Press
2.  Mark Tuckermann, (2010), Statistical Mechanics and Molecular Simulations, 1st Edition,
Self Learning Material
1.  M. P. Allen and T. J. Tildesley., (1993), Computer Simulations of liquids, 1st Edition,
Oxford Science Publications
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Banerjee, T. Molecular simulations, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemical
Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati,
2.  Tembe, B.L., Computational Chemistry and Classical Molecular Dynamics, NPTEL Course
Material, Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay,
Course Title  Solid State NMR Methods for Materials
MSc./PhD (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  Introduction to essential techniques of solid state NMR
2.  Introduction to various spin interactions important in solid state e.g., chemical shift
anisotropy, dipolar coupling etc.
3.  To enable students to analyze NMR spectrum to extract information on solid state
structure and dynamics.
The students are expected to:
1.  Have basic understanding of the theoretical background of solid state NMR.
2.  Application of solid state NMR in the field of materials relevant in medicine, renewable
energy, polymers etc.
3.  Understanding of various solid state methods that can be applied to characterize
materials of interest.
Introduction to various nuclear spins other than 1H relevant for solid state materials:
quadrupolar nuclei, concept of chemical shift anisotropy (CSA), scalar coupling, dipolar
coupling and quadrupolar interactions, relation between shielding tensor and electronic
structure, powder averaging. (8 lectures)
Introduction to nuclear spin Hamiltonian relevant in solid state: cross polarization, isotropic
mixing Hamiltonian, solid state echo sequence, Homo and heteronuclear decoupling, concept
of spin diffusion and polarization transfer, concept of Nuclear Quadrupole Resonance (NQR)
Introduction to NMR techniques: powder line shape, determination of anisotropy, Magic
Angle Spinning (MAS), generation of spinning sideband patterns, sideband modulation,
molecular structure and dynamics determination by probing ssb manifolds, Techniques for
measuring CSA and orientation of shielding tensor, measurement of homo and
heteronuclear dipolar coupling, correlation experiments. (10 lectures)
Introduction to molecular dynamics: powder line shape analysis-relaxation time studies-2D
rotor synchronization and Exchange Spectroscopy (EXSY). (10 lectures)
Application of solid state NMR: in polymers, nanomaterials, drugs, narcotics, explosives etc.,
recent advances in 1D solid state methods for dynamics, application of NQR. (4 lectures)
1.  Duer, J. M., (2005), Introduction to Solid State NMR, Wiley.
1.  Ernst, R. R., Bodenhausen, G., Wokaun, A., (1987), Principles of Nuclear Magnetic
Resonance in One and Two Dimension, Clarendon Press, Oxford.
2.  Bakhmutov, V. I., (2011), Solid-State NMR in Materials Science- Principles and
Applications, CRC Press.
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Atreya, H. S., Principles and Application of NMR spectroscopy, NMR Research Center,
IISC Bangalore, https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc18_ge07/preview
2.  Molugu, T. R., Lee, S., Brown, M. F., Concepts and Methods of Solid State NMR
Spectroscopy Applied to Biomembranes, 2017, Chem. Rev., 117, 12087-12132
3.  Dybowski, C., Bai, S., Solid State NMR Spectroscopy, 2008, Anal. Chem., 80, 4295-
Ph.D. (CY) Program
The Instructor will:
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
1.  Impart mathematical framework of Quantum Computation to students familiar with basic
concepts of quantum mechanics and quantum information
2.  Discuss advanced topics and State-of-the-Art research in quantum information and
The students are expected to:
1. Use the concepts taught in class to various aspects of quantum information,
communication and cryptography
2. Understand and appreciate the technological evolution at theoretical and experimental front
Mathematical Preliminaries: Quantum Mechanics, Matrix representations of quantum states
and operators, Cauchy-Schwartz and Triangle Inequalities, Classical and Quantum Correlations
Notions of Quantum Information: Classical and Quantum state Registers, Pure and Mixed
states, Reduction and Purification of states, Quantum Channels, Completely Positive and trace
Preserving Maps (6 Lectures)
Entropy: Quantitative bounds on Shannon and relative Entropy, Von-Neumann and quantum
relative entropy, Klein’s inequality, Concavity and subadditivity of von Neumann entropy,
Strong subadditivity of von Neumann entropy, Accessible Information, Holevo information (8
Entanglement and Nonlocality: Separability Criteria, Classical, Separable and Entangled states,
Local Operations and Classical Communications, Distillable entanglement and entanglement
cost, Bound entanglement, Bell’s Inequality and Nonlocality, Nonlocality in multiqubit Systems,
Entanglement Measures (12 Lectures)
Quantum Error Correction: Bit flip and phase flip codes, Quantum Hamming Bound,
Calderbank-Shor-Steane codes, Gottesman-Knil theorem, Fault-tolerant quantum computation,
quantum algorithms and cryptography (10 Lectures)
1. Nielsen, M. A. and Chuang, I. L., Quantum Computation and Quantum Information,
Cambridge University Press, 2000
2. Vedral, V., Introduction to Quantum Information Science, Oxford University Press, 2006
1.  Griffiths, D. J., Introduction to Quantum Mechanics, Pearson Prentice Hall, 2006
2.  Bouwmeester, D., Ekert, A. and Zeilinger, A., The Physics of Quantum Information,
3.  Bellac, M. L., A Short Introduction to Quantum Information and Quantum Computation,
Cambridge University Press, 2006
Preparatory Course Material
1.Goswami, D., Quantum Computing, Mathematics for Chemistry, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur
MSc./Ph.D. (CY) Program
Group Theory and Molecular Spectroscopy
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide basic and advanced group theoretical concepts and their applications in bonding,
L-T-P [C]  3–0–0 [3]
spectroscopy, and solid state chemistry.
The students are expected to:
1.  Analyze and understand the concept of point group and symmetry associated with
2.  Apply the knowledge of group theory to understand bonding, and structure in chemical
Introduction: The nature of the problem, symmetry operations, elements and operators,
groups and group theory- general definitions, defining, deriving and recognizing point groups,
subgroups and cosets, classes, group multiplication table (10 Lectures)
Theory of group representations: The great orthogonality theorem, character of a
representation, reducible and irreducible representations, construction of character tables and
physical interpretation, application of representation theory in quantum mechanics, direct-
product groups (10 Lectures)
Applications to Chemical Bonding and spectroscopy: Molecular orbitals, applications to valence
bond theory and molecular orbital theory, bonding in homonuclear diatomic molecules of
transition metal, molecular orbitals in complex compounds, Huckel molecular orbital theory,
application of group theory to UV-Visible, IR and Raman spectroscopy (14 Lectures)
Group theory and crystal symmetry: Crystal systems and classes, translational and space
groups, symmorphic and nonsymmorphic space groups, applications of space group, factor
group (8 Lectures)
1. Cotton, F. A., (1990) Chemical Applications of Group Theory, 3rd edition Wiley-Interscience
2. Vincent, A., (2013) Molecular Symmetry and Group Theory: A Programmed Introduction to
Chemical Applications, 2nd Edition Wiley
1. Engel, T. and Reid, P., (2012), Quantum Chemistry and Spectroscopy, 3rd Edition, Pearson
Preparatory Course Material
1.Chandra, M., Chemical Applications of Symmetry and Group theory, NPTEL Course Material,
Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur,
Modern Electronic Structure Theory
M.Sc./PhD (CY) Program
CY 514 (Quantum Chemistry and
The Instructor will:
1. Provide knowledge of modern electronic structure theories and basic computational
chemistry techniques and tools to carry out electronic structure calculations and interpret
The students are expected to:
1. Carry out electronic structure calculations and interpret experimental spectra
2. Write simple computer programs to carry out calculations
Review of basics: Linear algebra, numerical techniques, postulates of quantum mechanics,
Born-Oppenheimer approximation, concept of potential energy surface, variational and
perturbation approaches (14 lectures)
Electronic structure theories: Hartree-Fock (HF) and post-HF theories, Moller-Plesset theory,
density functional theory, coupled cluster theory, electron correlation, configuration
interaction, excited states, time dependent density functional theory (14 lectures)
Techniques: Energy minimization, vibrational frequency analysis, symmetry analysis, zero
point energy calculation, intrinsic reaction coordinate, distinguishing stationary points,
atomic charges, Mulliken analysis (14 lectures)
Electronic structure calculations; Geometry optimization; simple Fortran programming;
finding intrinsic reaction coordinates; computing potential and free energy profiles
1.  Levine, I. N., (2016), Quantum Chemistry, 7th Edition, Pearson Education
2.  McQuarrie, D. A., (2016), Quantum Chemistry, 2nd Edition, Viva Books
3.  Szabo, A., (1996), Modern Quantum Chemistry, Dover Publications
1. Jensen, F., (2017), Introduction to Computational Chemistry, 3rd Edition, Wiley-Blackwell
2.  Cramer, C. J., (2004), Essentials of Computational Chemistry, 2nd Edition, Wiley-
Self Learning Course Material
1. Simons, J.: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z5cq7JpsG8I
Chemical Reaction Dynamics
M.Sc./PhD (CY) Program
CY 514 (Quantum Chemistry and
The Instructor will:
1.  Provide introduction to reaction dynamics in the gas phase and many advanced
concepts in scattering theory.
2.  Compare experimental data with dynamics simulations.
The students are expected to:
1.  Interpret experimental data in terms of classical and quantum scattering theory
2.  Design and perform advanced dynamics simulations.
Reactive collisions: Fundamentals, Potential energy surfaces, Crossed molecular beams,
state-to-state cross sections, Classical and quantum scattering process (15 lectures)
Rate theories: Kinetic theory of gases, Transition state theory (TST), Rice-Ramsperger-
Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory, Microcanonical and thermal rate constants
Gas phase dynamics: Photodissociation, energy transfer dynamics, intramolecular vibrational
energy flow, mode selective chemistry with Lasers (20 lectures)
Condensed phase dynamics: Solvation, Diffusion, Kramer-Grote-Hynes model, Correlation
functions (7 lectures)
1.  R. D. Levine, (2009) Molecular Reaction Dynamics, Reprint Edition, Cambridge
University Press, USA.
1.  T. Baer and W. L. Hase, (1996), Unimolecular Reaction Dynamics: Theory and
Experiments, Oxford University Press, USA
2.  A. Nitzan, (2006), Chemical Dynamics in Condensed Phases, Oxford University Press,
Preparatory Course Material
1.  Halder, M., Reaction Dynamics, NPTEL lectures,  Department of Chemistry, Indian
Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, http://nptel.ac.in/courses/104105041/31
Biophysical Techniques: Theory and
M.Sc/PhD Program, B.Tech
The Instructor will:
1.  Introduce basic knowledge of a few biophysical methods and their application in the
interdisciplinary area of chemistry and biology.
2.  To have a greater understanding of the underlying theory of these methods and their
practical applications in the laboratories.
The students are expected to:
1.  Understand the underlying principle of different biophysical methods.
2.  To be able to use important biophysical methods to decipher problems relevant to
3.  Better understand the structure-function activity of biomolecules.
Spectroscopic methods: Concepts of spectral transition and analysis of spectrum, Application
of UV-VIS spectroscopy in protein folding kinetics, Advance topics in fluorescence such as
anisotropy, resonance energy transfer and real time fluorescence; principle of Circular
dichroism, optical rotatory dispersion methods and applications, Principle of Surface Plasmon
Resonance spectroscopy, SPR optical phenomenon, application of SPR in ligand-protein
interaction. (15 lectures)
Magnetic Resonance based methods: Principles of NMR and EPR, Concept of relaxation and
polarization transfer, application of 1D and 2D NMR methods in biomolecules, EPR
transitions, identification of metal centers in biomolecules, spin labelling and motions of side
chains. (15 lectures)
Calorimetric techniques: Principles and applications of Isothermal Titration Calorimetry,
Differential Scanning Calorimetry, applications in biomolecules. (7 lectures)
Centrifugation Techniques: Concepts and fundamentals of centrifugation. Ultracentrifugation
techniques in biology. (5 lectures )
1.  Cox, M.M, Nelson, D.L., Lehninger (2009) Principles of Biochemistry,  6th Edition, W.H.
Freeman & Co,
2.  Gunther, H., (1995), NMR Spectroscopy, 2nd Edition, Wiley
3.  Circular Dichroism – Principles and Application, (2000) Edited by Brova, N., Nakanishi,
K., Woody, R. W., 2nd Ed., Wiley.
1.  Claridge, T. D. W., (1999), High Resolution NMR Techniques in Organic Chemistry, 1st
2.  Stryer, L., Berg, J.M., Tymoczko, J.L., (2012) Biochemistry, W.H.Freeman & Co Ltd
3.  Lakowicz, J. R., (2006), Principles of Fluorescence Spectroscopy, 3rd Edition, Springer,
4.  Biophysical approaches determining ligand binding to biomolecular targets (2011), Edited
by Podjarny, A., Dejaegere, A., Keiffer, B., RSC Publishing
Preparatory Course Material
1.  NPTEL lectures: https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc19_cy07/preview
2.  Sharma, K. A., Analytical Technologies in Biotechnology, Dept. of Biotechnology, IIT
Course Title  Stochastic Problems in Biophysics
PhD (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  To understand applications of fundamental probability methods to wide variety of problems
related to biophysics.
2.  To show the mathematical literature on this subject
3.  To understand non-equilibrium statistical mechanics
The students are expected to:
1.  Ability to translate complex phenomena into simple models
2.  Ability to derive mathematical models for problems related to biophysics
1.  Introduction: Historical examples, Joint and conditional Probabilities, Correlation functions
and Cumulants, Gaussian and Poissonian Probability Distributions (14 lectures)
2.  Markov Processes: Chapman-Kolmogorov Equation, Examples of Markov Processes  (10
3.  Brownian Motion: Basic assumptions, Langevin Equation, Fokker-Planck Equation, Master
Equations and Jump Processes, Linear Response Theory  (18 lectures)
1.  Landau and Lifshitz, Statistical Physics, Elsevier, 2005
2.  David Chandler, Introduction to Modern Statistical Mechanics, Oxford University Press, 1987
Self Learning Materials
1.  C. W. Gardiner, Handbook of Stochastic Methods for Physics, Chemistry and Natural
Sciences, Springer-Verlag, 1983
2.  Edited and Introduced by John Stachel, Einstein’s Miraculous Year, Princeton University
3.  S. Chandrashekhar, Reviews of Modern Physics, vol 15, No 1, APS
Preparatory Course Material
Prof. V. Balakrishnan, IIT Madras: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qNmB1qNjZ0k
Course Title  Polymer Dynamics
PhD (CY) Program
The instructor will:
To understand basic principles and theory of  modern macromolecules
To  understand the analogy to other branches of science at a more fundamental level
The students are expected to:
1.  Ability to realize that polymers are essential ingredients in biological machinery
2.  Ability to do advanced calculations more modestly
Ideal Chain : Freely joint chain, Flexibility of a polymer chain, Gaussian Chain, Ideal chain as a
random walk, Ideal polymer by an external force, Flory Calculation (12 lectures)
Polymer chains with volume interactions and Melts : Models with volume interactions, ideal
melts, chains in solvents (10 lectures)
Dynamics: Rouse model, Zimm Model,  Real polymer coil, Reptation model (10 lectures)
Biopolymers: Properties, Primary structure, Secondary structure, Helix-coil transition (10
1.  M. Doi and S. F. Edwards, The Theory of Polymer Dynamics, Oxford Science Publications,
Self Learning Materials
1.  Alexander Yu. Grosberg and Alexei R. Khokhlov,  Statistical Physics of Macromolecules,  AIP
2.  Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, Scaling Concepts in Polymer Physics, Cornell University Press,
Online course material
1.  George Phillies lectures a series of graduate classes, based on his book "Phenomenology of
Polymer Solution Dynamics" Cambridge University Press, 2011.
Statistical Mechanics and Molecular
PhD (CY) Program
The instructor will:
1.  To understand the complex soft matter system that bridges the traditional disciplines of
physics, chemistry and biology using modern theoretical methodology and high-speed
2.  To explore the connections between basic statistical mechanical theories and real world
applications in studying physical, chemical and biological phenomena.
The students are expected to:
1.  Understanding basic principles of Statistical Mechanics and Molecular Dynamics
2.  Mathematical formalism associated with theory and techniques of molecular modelling.
3.  Few real world applications to understand the connections between microscopic and
Statistical basis of thermodynamics:  Introduction to Statistical Methods, Micro and Macro
states, Ensemble theory (micro-canonical, canonical, isobaric, grand-canonical), Mathematical
techniques (5 lectures)
Classical Statistical Mechanics: Partition functions, Thermodynamic functions, Phase space and
Liouville equation, Distribution functions, Kirkwood integrals (10 lectures).
(Module 3 of ``Statistical Physics” by Physics department) Fluctuations: Thermodynamic
fluctuations, Spatial correlations in a fluid, Einstein-Smoluchowski theory of Brownian motion,
Langevin theory,Fokker-Planck equation, Fluctuation-dissipation theory, Onsager relations (12
Introduction to Molecular Modeling: Algorithms, Periodic boundary conditions, Interaction
functions and force fields, Electrostatics, Molecular dynamics in various ensembles (10
Applications: Brownian dynamics simulations, Biological applications for proteins and
membranes (5 lectures)
1.  Mark E Tuckerman, Statistical Mechanics and Molecular Simulations, Oxford University,
2.  David Chandler, Introduction to Modern Statistical Mechanics, Oxford University Press,
Self Study Material
1.  M. P. Allen and T J Tildesley, Computer Simulations of Liquids, Oxford Science Publications,
2.  D. A. Mcquarrie, Statistical Mechanics, University Science Books, 2000
3.  D. Frenkel and B. Smit, Understanding Molecular Dynamics Simulations, Academic press,
4.  Andrew R Leach, Molecular Modelling: Principles and applications, Prentice Hall, 2010
5.  R K Pathria, Paul D. Beale, Statistical Mechanics, Elsevier, 2011
Preparatory Course Material
Advanced Electrochemistry and
The instructor will
1.  Provide an introductory but thorough background in electrochemistry.
2.  Provide fundamentals of electrochemical systems, electroanalytical techniques and
The students are expected to:
1.  describe the difference between equilibrium properties and properties of electrochemical
systems and apply electrochemical methods for required information.
2.  explain the functioning of electrochemical devices as well as the commonly employed
underlying electrochemical reactions
Introduction to Electrochemistry: Nernst equation, electrode kinetics, dynamic
electrochemistry, the Butler-Volmer and Tafel equations. Overpotentials. Kinetically and
mass transport controlled electrochemical processes. Mass transport by migration,
convection and diffusion. Conductivity. (Lectures 7)
Electrochemical Methods: Potentiostatic and galvanostatic electrochemical methods including
chronoamperometry, coulometry, cyclic voltammetry, chronopotentiometry, ac impedance
spectroscopy, spectroelectrochemistry and hydrodynamic methods.(Lectures 8)
Solid state electrochemistry. Ion conducting and electronically conducting polymers; The
electrochemical double layer. (5 Lectures)
Surface confined electrochemical processes: The fundamentals of corrosion. Homogeneous
and heterogeneous electrocatalysis (HER and OER). Electrochemical processes coupled to
chemical steps. Nanostructured and surface modified electrodes. (8 Lectures)
Application: Introduction to batteries, fuel cells and electrochemical solar cells. (7 Lectures)
Electrochemical processes of particular relevance to energy conversion.(5 Lectures)
D. I. Antropov, Theoretical Electrochemistry, Mir Publishers, 1972.
J. M. Bockris and A. K. N. Reddy, Modern Electrochemistry, Vol.1 and 2, Plenum Press, 1998.
Industrial Electrochemistry, 2nd ed, Pletcher, Derek/Walsh, Frank C., London: Chapman and
Electrochemistry for Chemists, 2nd ed, Sawyer, Donald T./Sobkowiak, Andrej/Roberts, Julian
L., New York: John Wiley, 1995
1.  Transient Techniques in Electrochemistry, Macdonald, Digby D., New York: Plenum Press,
2.  Laboratory Techniques in Electroanalytical Chemistry, (2nd edition) by Peter Kissinger
and William Heineman (Marcell Dekker) 1996
Preparatory Course Material