Tentative Course Structure for
Executive M. Tech. AI
List of Compulsory Courses
1. Bridge Course on DSA
2. Optimization for Data Science (2 credit)
3. Artiﬁcial Intelligence (3 credit)
4. Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms (2 credit)
5. Machine Learning (3 credit)
6. ML-Ops (1 credit)
7. Deep Learning (3 credit)
8. DL-Ops (1 credit)
9. Core Bucket (Advanced Artiﬁcial Intelligence / Autonomous Systems) (3 credit)
10. Technical Communication (Non-graded) (1 credit)
11. Ethics and Professional Life (Non-graded) (1 credit)
12. System Engineering and Project Management (Non-graded) (1 credit)
13. Intellectual Property (Non-graded) (1 credit)
14. Major project (16 credit)
List of Elective Courses
Please refer to the list below for the elective courses which may be oﬀered by IIT Jodhpur.  A total 6
program electives (18 credits) and 2 open electives need to be completed.
Courses oﬀered by Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Advanced Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Advanced Computer Graphics
Advancements in Computer Vision
Advanced Human-Machine Interaction
Algorithms for Big Data
Computational Learning Theory
Crowd-sourcing and Human Computing
Digital Image Analysis
Edge and Fog Computing
Ethics, Policy, Law and Regulation in AI
Graph Theory and Applications
Graph Theoretic Algorithms
Introduction to AR and VR
Machine Learning with Big Data
Medical Image Analysis
Natural Language Processing
Neuromorphic Computing and Design
Principles of Biological Vision
Reliability Engineering and Life Testing
Resource Constrained Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Scalable Machine Learning
Selected Topics in AI - I/II/III
Selected Topics in CS - I/II/III
Selected Topics in ML - 1/2/3
Social Network Analysis
Social Networks (700)
Software and Data Engineering
Security and its Applications
Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks
Virtualization and Cloud Computing
Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms (Fractal 3)
Courses oﬀered by Department of Electrical Engineering
Adaptive Signal Processing
Advanced Digital Signal Processing
Digital Signal Processing and Applications
Cyber Physical System Modelling and Simulation lab
Digital Video Processing
Introduction to Haptics
Introduction to Cyber-Physical Systems
Machine Learning for Communication
Introduction to Smart Grid
Speech and Audio Signal Processing
Statistical Decision Theory
Courses oﬀered by Department of Mechanical Engineering
Planning and Decision Making for Robots
Courses oﬀered by Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Courses oﬀered by Department of Mathematics
Advanced Topics in Computational PDE
AI for Finance
Linear Algebra with Data
Linear Algebra for Data Science
Computational Game Theory
Introduction to Data Science
Courses oﬀered by Department of Physics
Statistics for Data Science
Mathematical modeling and simulations
Time Series Analysis
Quantum Information Processing
Quantum Cryptography and Coding
Courses oﬀered by IDRP Digital Humanities
Analysis of Social Media Networks
Human Factors in Interaction Design
Digital Methods and Tools
Courses oﬀered by School of AIDE
Introduction to Financial Engineering
Computational Cognition & Behavior Modelling
Fundamentals of Digital Humanities: Fractal - 2 (Data
and Knowledge representations)
Introduction to Game Theory
Machine Learning for Epidemiology
Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos
Optimization in ML
Special Topics in Data Science - 1/2/3
Courses oﬀered by School of Management and Entrepreneurship
AI for Risk Analysis
Risk Management Analytics