Title: Possibilities and Device Applications of Degenerate Optical Microcavities
Funding Agency: Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB)
Completion date: 07.05.2021
Project PI: Dr Somanth Ghosh
In this project, exotic optical effects in the presence of exceptional points (EPs) are
being explored in specialty gain-loss assisted optical microcavity and waveguide
structures. The presence of multiple EPs and the interplay between them along an
exclusively proposed exceptional line have been explored in a Fabry-Parot type
microcavity, where the coupling phenomena between the resonances is entirely
controlled by system topology. The specific chiral topological behavior of an EP will
be explored in adiabatic-state-exchange mechanisms following a closed parametric
encirclement around single or multiple EPs. In this context, the time or analogous
length-scale dependent dynamical parametric encirclement will be studied in an
optical waveguide; where owing to the contrast between the effect of EP and the
adiabatic theorem, we will explore an exclusive route to achieve optical mode
conversion, mode switching, optical isolation, etc. on-chip.
FIG. 1: (a) Schematic of a gain-loss assisted optical microcavity. (b) Coalescence of
state-1 and state-2 at EP(1), unaffecting state-3. (c) Unaffecting state-1, the
coalescence of state-2 and state-3 at EP(2).
FIG. 2: (a) Schematic of a dual-mode planar optical waveguide. (b) Coalescence of
-values (propagation constants) of the supported modes at an EP. (c) Parametric
encirclement scheme with a closed variation of gain-loss around the identified EP.
(d) Associated length-dependent gain-loss distribution to encircle the identified EP
(e) Chirality-driven asymmetric mode conversion following the
dynamical EP-encirclement scheme;
1. A. Laha, A. Biswas and S. Ghosh, “Nonadiabatic Modal Dynamics Around
in an All-Lossy Dual-Mode Optical Waveguide: Toward
Chirality-Driven Asymmetric Mode Conversion,” Physical Review Applied 10,
2. A. Laha, A. Biswas and S. Ghosh, “Minimally asymmetric state conversion
around exceptional singularities in a specialty optical microcavity,” Journal of Optics
(IOP) 21, 025201 (2019).
S. Bhattacherjee, H. K. Gandhi, A. Laha, and S. Ghosh, “Higher-order topological
degeneracies and progress towards unique successive state switching in a four-level
open system,” Physical Review A 100, 062124 (2019).
4. H. K. Gandhi, A. Laha, S. Dey, and S. Ghosh, “Chirality breakdown in the
presence of multiple exceptional points and specific mode excitation,” Optics
Letters 45, 1439 (2020).
5. A. Laha, S. Dey, H. K. Gandhi, A. Biswas, and S. Ghosh, “Exceptional point and
toward mode-selective optical isolation,” ACS Photonics 7, 967-974 (2020)
S. Dey, A. Laha, and S. Ghosh, “Nonlinearity induced anomalous mode
collapsing and non-chiral asymmetric mode switching around multiple exceptional
points,” Physical Review B 101, 125432 (2020).