Admission to Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS) for Working
Professionals-July 2024 session
IIT Jodhpur invites applications for Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI Systems (IVS) for
the semester commencing from July 2024.  The program for Executive M.Tech. in Intelligent VLSI
Systems  (IVS)  of  IIT  Jodhpur  includes  state-of-the-art    analog  and  digital  VLSI  circuits  and
systems,  mixed  signal  circuits,  issues  with  system  integration  for  performance  considerations,
covering  wide  aspects  of  embedded  and  computing  systems,  and  emerging  applications.  The
courses in this program provide enough flexibility to the working professionals and cover a wide
aspect  of  fundamentals,  design  skills,  hands  on  through  synchronous/asynchronous/campus-
immersion  mode  and  current  trends  in  the  industry  thereby  leading  the  professionals  to  learn
without a career break with classes conducted on weekends/weekdays evenings. The education
delivery methodology combines online classroom and experiential learning. The total duration of
the program is spread over 2 years (4 regular semesters and 2 summer semesters).
Eligibility Criteria and Admission Process
B.Tech./B.E. (ECE/EE/CSE/EI/MSc. Physics/MSc. Electronics or equivalent) with at least 60%
marks. At least 2 years of professional work experience with sufficient hands-on experience.
Candidates must fill the designated online application at the provided link. Prior research exposure
and/or  industry  experience  in  areas  related  to  VLSI  will  be  considered  a  plus.  The  department
reserves the right to set any cut off criteria for shortlisting the candidates. Mere fulfillment of the
eligibility criteria does not guarantee that the candidate will be shortlisted.
Particulars  A.Y. 2024-25
Note: Fees once paid will not be refunded, if the candidate fails to join the program.
Key Features of the Program:
Classes  will  be  conducted  in  the  evening  (e.g.  from  5  PM  to  7  PM  IST)  or  on  weekends  at  a
convenient time. There will be two to three lectures/labs every evening, each of duration 50 to 80
minutes. Typical contact time for 1 credit: 14 lectures of 50 minutes each.
Online Instruction and Assessment
Lectures  will  be  webcast  online  and  students  will  attend  in  a  synchronous  audio-visual  mode.
Students can raise questions during the lecture. Recorded lectures and teaching material will be
made available after the sessions.  Course management and offline discussions will be enabled via
widely-used  tools  such  as  Google  classroom.    Grading  will  be  based  on  examinations,  online
quizzes,  theoretical  assignments,  etc.  Institute  policy  will  be  followed  for  the  examinations.
Continuous evaluation (in the form of 2 minor examinations) will be conducted ONLINE,
however, the major examinations would be held OFFLINE.
Terms and conditions for award of PG Degree
The minimum credit requirements are 62 as per PG regulations of the institute. For details, please
refer to the distribution of different certificate programs into different semesters. Kindly refer to
the Appendix provided at the end of this advertisement for the sample degree template.
Instructors are IITJ faculty members and industry experts.
Salient features of the program
1.  Candidates have the option of registering for specific certificates as per their interest and
convenience. The certificates can be stacked for the award of M.Tech. degree subject to
completing the 62 credit requirement in total.
2.  Candidates completing a group of certificates but not willing to complete the M.Tech.
course project can be awarded a diploma in Intelligent VLSI systems.
3.  All executive degree programs require a mandatory in-person visit of a candidate for 10
days during the semester as per approved academic regulations.
4.  Candidates willing to finish earlier would be given the option of accelerated campus
immersion (involving registration for more than the usual credits in a semester).
5.  For the Master’s project, it is highly encouraged to include one supervisor from the
candidate’s organization thereby providing him/her an opportunity to work in detail on a
problem statement/research area aligned with his/her work domain.
1.  There will be mandatory 1 contact weeks in a semester for 10 days. Students need to be
present  during  the  contact  weeks  and  attend  lectures  and  discussion  sessions  with
instructors,  and  participate  in  offline  evaluations.  Institute  may  provide  hostel
accommodation as per institute rules.
2.  The major examinations will take place in a physical mode (offline mode), necessitating
students' physical presence for participation in the exams.
●  June 4, 2024: Commencement of online application process.
●  July  7, 2024: Last date for submitting online applications
●  July 9, 2024: Announcement of the shortlisted candidates
●  July 10, 2024: Announcement of results and confirmed list of students sent to the Office
of CEP by the Program Directors
●  July 11, 2024-July 12, 2024: Offer Letters to be sent by CEP Office, IIT Jodhpur
●  Deadline for programme fee payment: 18th July, 2024
●  IITJ Orientation: 19th July, 2024
●  All registration process of students to be completed in IITJ ERP Portal: 22nd July,2024
●  Commencement of academic activities at IITJ: 22nd July, 2024
●  Class Commencement Date: 25th July, 2024
Applicants  are  required  to  pay  the  processing  fee  of    Rs.  500  online  while  submitting  the
application form. The application fees are non-refundable.
Cancellation of Admission
The Institute reserves the right to cancel, at any stage, the admission of a candidate admitted to a
programme  and  is  later  found  that  he/she  is  not  entitled,  being  unqualified  or  ineligible  in
accordance with the Regulations in vogue, or suspension/termination of programme. In the case
of cancellation/withdrawal of admission after registration from programme, refund of fee will not
In case of any query with respect to the online application, candidates may contact the office of
the Department of Electrical Engineering at the following phone number: 0291-2801352 or email
Link for application: https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=61