Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
25 March 2019 (Monday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 19th Meeting
25 March 2019 (Monday), 02:00 P.M.
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present:
1.  Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to GoI
2.  Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
3.  Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
4.  Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Professor, Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
5.  Sh. Purshottam Sankhla, Joint Director & Secretary,                                               Member
Board of Technical Education Rajasthan, Jodhpur
(Representative of Chief Secretary, Government of Rajasthan, Jaipur)
6.  Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
The following members were unable to attend the meeting:
1.  Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, MD & CEO, Jain Irrigation, Jalgaon
2.  Dr. S. S. Sandhu, Additional Secretary (TE), MHRD,
Government of India, New Delhi
The following are the decisions of the Board on the items of the Agenda:
19.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
The  Chairman  welcomed  the  Members,  especially  the  Director  for  being  his  First
Meeting  of  the  Board  of  Governors  after  taking  over  the  charge  as  Director,  IIT
Jodhpur and called the meeting in Order.
19.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes of 18th Meeting of the Board of Governors held on
24 August 2018 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur.
The  Board  confirmed  the  Minutes  of  the  18th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of  Governors
held on 24 August 2018.
19.1.2  To discuss  and Confirm the Minutes of 9th  Special Meeting of the Board  of
Governors held on 09 November 2018 at Board Room, IIT Delhi
The  Board  of  Governors  after  detailed  discussion  confirmed  the  Minutes  of  9th
Special Meeting of the Board of Governors held on 09 November  2018 which were
tabled during the meeting. Also, the Board directed the Institute to send a detailed
report  as  sought  by  the  MHRD  towards  increase  of  66%  estimated  cost  of
construction of Director’s house.
19.1.3  Report on Action Taken on the Minutes of the 18th Meeting of the Board of
Governors 24 August 2018
The  Board  noted  the  Action  Taken  Report  (ATR)  on  the  various  decisions  taken  in
the 18th Meeting of the Board of Governors held on 24 August 2018.
Further, on other items under Action Taken Report, the Board desired the following
(a) On  Item  No.18.3.2(5)(a)  of  the  ATR:  The  Board  noted  that  the  matter  of  NBA
Accreditation is not applicable for the Institute and the same may be taken up
by the Senate of the Institute.
(b) On Item No.18.3.2(5)(b) of the ATR: The Board desired that the Institute would
explore funding from the industry or else to conduct research on various topics
on water resource utilization.
(c) On Item No.18.3.2(5)(d) of the ATR: The Board desired that the Institute would
prepare a guidelines for Academic Review of the Departments keeping in mind,
the long term goal of the Institute.
19.1.4  Report  on  Action  Taken  on  the  9th  Special  Meeting  of  the  Board  of
Governors held on 9 November 2018.
The Board noted the Action Taken Report on the various decisions taken in the 9th
Special Meeting of the Board of Governors held on 09 November 2018.
19.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The Director presented a detailed report of the Institute before the Board (through
PowerPoint  Presentation)  outlined  in  Four  Verticals  (a)  Academic  Program
(b)Human Resource (c) Financial Health and (d) Permanent Campus.
(i) Academic Program
The  Director  presented  the  current  student  strength  in  various  programs  at  the
level  of  Bachelors  Programs,  Masters  Programs  and  Doctoral  Programs.
Thereafter, the director presented a SWOT (Strength, Weakness, Opportunity and
Threat)  Analysis  prepared  by  the  Faculty  Members  of  the  Institute  on  the
Academic  Programs  and  other  related  aspects  such  as  Curriculum  Review,
Placements & Innovations in pedagogy before the Board of Governors.
Further,  the  Director  apprised  the  Board  that  the  Institute  has  started  following
  Revamp  the  Academic  Programs  with  flexibility  and  choice  with  more  focus  on
industrially relevant and frontier areas.
  Planning for Academic Programs in Infrastructure Engineering, Materials & Metallurgical
Engineering and Chemical Engineering with a futuristic Outlook
  Planning  to  start  6  new  PG  program  for  upcoming  semester  starting  July  2019  and  3
new B.Tech program would be started from July 2020.
The Board after review of status of Academic Programs decided to appoint:
(i)  Professor  T.K.  Dutta,  former  Professor,  IIT  Delhi  as  Adjunct  Faculty  to  steer  the
formation of Department of Civil Engineering; and
(j)  Professor  Devang  V.  Khakhar,  Director,  IIT  Bombay  as  Advisor  Faculty  to  steer  the
formation of Department of Chemical Engineering.
(ii)  Human Resource
The  Director  presented  the  current  strength  of  the  Faculty  Members  and  Staff
Members  and  apprise  the  Board  about  crunch  of  the  Faculty  Members  to  run  the
core  courses.  Also,  he  presented  the  SWOT  Analysis  on  the  Human  Resource
before  the  Board  of  Governors.  Subsequently,  he  apprised  the  Board  about
following  initiatives  taken  by  the  Institute  to  deal  with  the  shortage  of  Faculty
Members,  motivate  the  Faculty  Members  and  better  utilization  of  Human
  Offers to be made to 34 Faculty candidates including Four at a higher level (3 Associate
Professor and 1 Professor)
  26  faculty  members  will  be  promoted  to  the  next  higher  level  (Agenda  Item  of  the
present BOG meeting)
  Pro-active steps for career advancement of Faculty Member by revising the norms at par
with the other IITs.
  Simplified norms for Selection and Assessment of faculty at par with other IITs.
  Attracting  Bright  Young  Ph.D’s  to  IITJ  ecosystem  by  Young  Faculty  Associate  Scheme
(Recommended by the Finance Committee for approval of the BoG).
  Focused approach on inviting Senior Faculty/Experts to steer up the academic activities
and provide the guidance to the new Faculty Members of the Institute
  Advertisement for additional administrative and technical support staff has been  floated
and selections are in pipeline.
The  Board  appreciated  the  momentum  put  in  by  the  Director  for  overcoming  Faculty
shortage, motivating faculty and attracting senior faculty during this short period.
(iii) Research and Development
The  Director  apprised  the  Board  about  the  present  status  of  Research  &
Development  activities  of  the  Institute  alongwith  SWOT  Analysis.  He  also
presented  the  achievements  of  the  Institute  on  Research  &  Development  during
last 3 months as under:
  Modernising  R&D  facilities:  IIT  Jodhpur  is  installing  India’s  First  2nd  Generation  AI
Supercomputing facility – NVIDIA DGX-2
  Major  Collaborations  &  Funding:  Collaboration  with  The  Rachel  Carson  Center  for
Environment  and  Society,  Munich,  Germany,  DRDO,  Meity,  BRNS,  DBT,  DST,  SERB,
CSIR, DHI, NBHM, NetApp, Samsung, TCS, Panasonic
  Active Engagement  with Peers: MOU with  CEERI, IGIB, AIIMS and with NVIDIA for CoE
  Engagement  with  Industry:  Project  discussions  with  SAMSUNG,  COGNIZANT,
TVS at mature stage
  IIT  Jodhpur  will  be  the  national  co-ordinator  for  a  DST  sponsored  consortium  mode
project (Indian Heritage in Digital Space) (financial outlay – Rs. 12 crores)
The  Board  emphasized  on  undertaking  quality  research  projects  with  focus  on
Industry and national grand technological challenges.
The Director also briefed the Board of Governors about the Financial Health of the
Institute,  Status  of  HEFA  Loan  and  status  of  the  construction  of  the  Permanent
Campus of the Institute.
The Presentation was appreciated by all the members and the Chairman, Board of
Governors  especially  the  Board  appreciated  the  Director  for  his  great  effort  to
complete  such  rigorous  Recruitment  Drive  for  the  Faculty  recruitments  in  various
Departments of the Institute in such a short period.
19.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
19.3.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  15th  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on 29 October 2018 at IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  15th  Meeting  of  the  Senate  held
on 29 October 2018 at IIT Jodhpur.
19.3.2  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  16th  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on 01 January 2019 at IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  16th  Meeting  of  the  Senate  held
on 01 January 2019.
19.3.3  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  15th  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee held on 09 November 2018
The  Board  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  15th  Meeting  of  the  Finance
Committee held on 09 November 2018.
19.3.4  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  16th  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee held on 16 March 2019
The  Board  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  16th  Meeting  of  the  Finance
Committee held on 16 March 2019.
19.3.5  Recommendation  of  the  20th  Meeting  of  Building  and  Works  Committee
held on 09 March 2019 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur.
The Board approved the  recommendations of the  20th Meeting of the  Building and
Works Committee held on 09 March 2019.
19.3.6  To  consider  the  amendments  in  the  existing  provision  of  Soft  Advance  to
the employees of the Institute.
The  Board  approved  the  proposal  of  amendments  in  the  existing  provision  of  the
Soft Advance to the employees of the Institute.
19.3.7  To consider and approve the proposal of granting additional Special Casual
Leave to Faculty Members to attend academic activities if exhausted SCL in
The  Board  discussed  the  matter  at  length  and  approved  the  proposal  of  granting
additional  Special  Casual  Leave  (SCL)  to  Faculty  Members  to  attend  academic
activities,  if  exhausted  SCL  in  his/her  credit.  The  Board  authorized  the  Director  to
grant  additional  Special  Casual  Leave  (SCL)  on  the  merit,  case  to  case  basis  and
upto maximum of 10 days.
19.3.8  To  consider  a  proposal  regarding  Faculty  Entrepreneurship  Policy  of  the
The Board, after discussion at length, approved the Faculty Entrepreneurship Policy
in line with the other IITs and also considered it essential for the Institute to build
ecosystem to promote Research & Development activities.
19.3.9  To  consider  and  approve  the  proposed  Norms  for  Selection  and
Assessment of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur.
The Director apprised the Board about the bottlenecks in the existing norms  of the
Institute  for  Selection  and  Assessment  of  Faculty  Members  and  also  apprised  the
Board that the existing norms are not in conformity with the norms and practice of
other IITs. After taking note of the submissions of the Director, the Board approved
the  norms  for  Selection  and  Assessment  of  Faculty  Members  of  IIT  Jodhpur  as
19.3.10  To suggest competition for Design of Logo of IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  decided  to  withdraw  the  proposal  temporarily  and  continue  with  the
19.3.11  To  consider  and  approve  formation  of  company  called  Technology
Innovation and Start-up Center (TISC).
The  Board  approved  the  proposal  regarding  formation  of  company  called
Technology Innovation and Start-up Centre (TISC) as proposed.
19.3.12  To  consider  and  approve  formation  of  company  called  IIT  Jodhpur
Technology Park (IITJ-TP)
The  Board  approved  the  proposal  regarding  formation  of  company  called  IIT
Jodhpur Technology Park (IITJ-TP) as proposed.
19.3.13  To  consider  and  approve  formation  of  company  called  IIT  Jodhpur
After  detailed  discussion,  the  Board  approved  the  proposal  regarding  formation  of
company  as  proposed  and  decided  that  the  name  of  the  Company  would  be  “IIT
Jodhpur Marudhar Foundation”
19.3.14  To  consider  the  reports  of  the  Selection  Committee  for  re-appointment  of
existing Faculty Members to higher positions.
The  Director  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  26  Faculty  Members  of  the
Institute  have  been  re-appointed  to  the  post  of  Associate  Professor  (under  the
scheme  of  re-appointment  of  Faculty  Members  to  higher  post)  and  also  apprised
the Board that along with them, 4 Faculty Members have also been appointed, one
at the level of Professor and three at the level of Associate Professor.
The Board approved the re-appointment of the 26 Faculty Members of the Institute
at the level of Associate Professor and also approved the appointment of 4 Faculty
Members as mentioned above.
19.3.15  To consider and approve a proposal for instituting awards as incentive for
The  Board  approved  and  appreciated  the  initiative  taken  by  the  Institute  to
motivate  Faculty  Members.  Also,  the  Board  authorized  the  Institute  Senate  to
prepare guidelines for the awards.
19.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
19.4.1  Report on Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and resigning from
The Board noted the report on the Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and
resigning from the Institute.
19.4.2  Adoption of Circulars of MHRD, Government of India
The Board adopted the circular of the Government of India.
19.4.3  Report  of  sanctioned  Research  Projects  to  the  Faculty  Members  of  the
The Board noted and appreciated the report on sanctioned Research Projects to the
Faculty Members of the Institute.
19.4.4  Report  of  MoUs  signed  with  different  Institutions/Agencies  by  the
The  Board  appreciated  the  report  (presented  in  the  tabular  form)  of  the  MoUs
signed by the Institute with different Institutions /agencies and noted the same.
19.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
19.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors
(a)  Reports of Selection Committees
The Board ratified the said 13 reports as presented.
(b)  Candidates who requested for extension in Joining
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors
regarding extension sought by the 4 newly recruited Faculty Members as requested
(c)  Reports of Review Committees
The  Board  ratified  the  said  26  reports  as  presented.  The  Director  apprised  the
Board  about  two  cases  that  “The  Review  Committee  constituted  for
evaluating  Annual  Performance  of  Dr.  Mayurakshi  Chaudhury,  Assistant
Professor, Department of Humanities & Social Sciences and Dr. Ramesh K.
Metre,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Chemistry;  while  recording  the
decision  of  movement  of  both  the  Faculty  Members  from  Contract  to
Probation,  the  Review  Committee  had  inadvertently mentioned  the  wrong
date of Probation instead of correct date which is affecting them adversely
in terms of their seniority and salary enhancement. The Director requested
the Board of Governors to advice on the matter.”
In  view  of  the  above,  the  Board  approved  that,  the  date  of  placing  the  following
two Faculty Members on the Probation would be read, as follows:
1.  Dr. Mayurakshi Chaudhury:
(Placed on Probation for a period of one year with effect from 06 June 2018)
2.  Dr. Ramesh K. Metre:
(Placed on Probation for a period of one year with effect from 11 July 2018)
(c)  Reports of Standing Committees
The Board ratified the said 5 reports as presented.
19.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
19.6.1  Additional Ratification Item
(a)  Reports of Selection Committees
The Board ratified the said 02 reports as presented.
(b)  Reports of Review Committees
The Board ratified the said 03 reports as presented.
(c)  Reports of Standing Committee
The Board ratified the 01 report as presented.
19.6.2  Signing  of  Memorandum  of  Understanding  between  the  Institute  and  the
MHRD, Government of India
The Director apprised the Board of Governors that “the Ministry of Human Resource
Development,  Government  of  India  had  enforced  new  financial  policy  of  the
Government in which the release of grants to the Institute are tied with the signing
of  a  Memorandum  of  Understanding  (MoU)  between  the  Institute  and  the  MHRD
every  financial  year  and  the  MHRD  has  directed  the  Institute  to  sign  a
Memorandum of Understanding for the FY 2019-2020” also. The Board discussed in
detail the various facets of the MoU and approved the signing of the same.
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all Members of the Board of Governors.
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur