Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
13th SPECIAL MEETING
25th February 2024 (Sunday)
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 13th Special Meeting
25th February 2024 (Sunday), 11:00 A.M.
The following Members were present in the 13th Special Meeting of the Board of Governors:
1.    Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar, Chairman, Board of Governors
Chairman (Through Webex)
2.    Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.    Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
4.    Prof. Akhil Ranjan Garg, JNVU, Jodhpur
5.    Prof. Richa Singh, Department of CS&E, IIT Jodhpur
6.    Prof. Neeraj Jain, Department of BS&BE, IIT Jodhpur
7.    Dr. H. S. Mewara, Joint Secretary (TE), Govt. of Rajasthan
Member (Through Webex)
Member (Through Webex)
(Representative of Chief Secretary, Government of Rajasthan)
8.    Prof. S. R. Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
9.    Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar
Sh.  Anil  Bhavarlal  Jain  and  Sh.  Govind  Jaiswal,  IAS,  Joint  Secretary  (TEL),  Ministry  of  Education,
Members, BoG and Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admin.), Special Invitee could not attend the Meeting.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:
SP.13.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS
At  the  outset,  Sh.  A.  S.  Kiran  Kumar,  Chairman,  BoG  warmly  welcomed  the
Members of the Board of Governors.
Thereafter,  the  Director,  IIT  Jodhpur  on  behalf  of  the  Board  of  Governors,
welcomed  Prof.  Neeraj  Jain,  Department  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering,  IIT
Jodhpur  and  Dr.  Hari  Om  Yadav,  Registrar,  IIT  Jodhpur  who  were  attending
the Meeting of the Board of Governors for the first time as a Member, Board of
Governors  (as  Senate  Nominee)  and  the  Registrar,  IIT  Jodhpur  respectively.
He also welcomed Dr. H. S. Mewara, Joint Secretary (TE), Govt. of Rajasthan
in the Meeting.
The  Chairman,  BoG  and  Members  welcomed  Prof.  Neeraj  Jain,  Member,  BoG
and Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar, IIT Jodhpur.
The Board of Governors also placed on record  the contributions  of Prof. Mitali
Mukerji,  outgoing  Member,  BoG  and  Dr.  Somnath  Ghosh,  former  Officiating
Registrar & Secretary, BoG for the development of the Institute.
Thereafter,  the  Chairman,  BoG  requested  the  Director  to  take  up  the  Agenda
of the Meeting.
SP.13.1.2  Institute Report by the Director, IIT Jodhpur
The  Director  presented  the  brief  Institute  Report  and  apprised  the  Board  of
Governors on the following:
1.  The Institute is offering 91 Academic Programmes from AY 2023-24;
2.  The present student strength reached to 4751 in the AY 2023-24 and out
of 4751, 820 are the Ph.D. Students which is very good sign for Research
3.  The  current  Faculty  and  Non-Faculty  Strength  is  266  and  231
4.  It  was  reported  that  during  the  ongoing  FY  2023-24,  133  new  R&D
Projects  and  ₹35.56  Crores  grant  have  been  received  and  which  is
expected to increase as the Financial Year closing approaches.
The  Director  further  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  about  the  Initiatives
taken by the recently established Offices at the Institute as below:
Office of Continuing Education Programme (CEP)
Total Number of
Total Number of
Total Number of Students
Total Number of Students
Total Number of Students
Office of International Relations
A.  The  Director  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  IIT  Jodhpur  with  INAE
has inaugurated its joint activity center, “IIT Jodhpur Outreach Center”
at Gurgaon, NCR on 14th November 2023 and the Center is steering up its
B.  The  Board  of  Governors  was  also  briefed  that  the  Office  of  International
Relations  &  Outreach  (IRO)  has  executed  more  than  25  MoUs  and
Agreements with Foreign Institute / University and the major collaborations
1.  MoU  between
Entrepreneurship)  and  Case  Western  University  (Weatherhead
School  of  Management  in  Cleveland,  Ohio,  USA)  for  starting  an
innovative “1+1” Program for MBA-Tech. Students.
2.  MoU  between  IIT  Jodhpur  and  Case  Western  University  for
enhancing the collaboration in Education and Research.
3.  MoU  between  IIT  Jodhpur  and  Alliance  Française  De  Jaipur  for
running the French Certificate Course for student and IITJ Fraternity.
C.   New Admission of International Students at IIT Jodhpur
Recently,  4  Students  form  EPITA  France  have  joined  IIT  Jodhpur  through
Student  Exchange  Programme  and  1  Student  from  Bangladesh  has  joined  IIT
Jodhpur through Study in India Programme.
Jodhpur  hosted  an  Augmented  Reality  Exhibition
D.  Hosted an Augmented Reality Exhibition entitled "Midi Minuit"
Minuit" during 6-12th  November  2023 at IIT  Jodhpur.  This  event  was
conducted  through  a  collaborative  effort  between  the Indian  Institute  of
Technology  (IIT)  Jodhpur  and  Alliance  Française,  Jaipur.  It  was  a  part  of  the
French  Embassy,  French  Institute,  and  Alliance  Françaises'  celebration  of  the
Digital November month.
E.   Shraman Foundation’s Student Scholarship Support
The  Shraman  Foundation,  the  USA  based  Non-profit  Organization  has  agreed
to  extend  the  Scholarship  support  to  the  needy  Students  of  IIT  Jodhpur  till
F.  Launch of Newsletter for International Relations and Outreach
Office of Corporate Relations
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Office  of  Corporate
Relations,  IIT  Jodhpur  is  dedicated  to  augment  the  Institute’s  corporate
relations,  linkages  &  outreach  and  building  up  strong  connect  with  Industry,
Ministries  and  organizations  for  developing  collaborative  R&D  programmes,
finding  Industry  linked  fellowships  and  scholarships,  internships,  placements
The  Institute  signed  75  MoUs  /  Agreements  so  far  to  foster  the  Industry
Organization of Industry Day 2024 of IIT Jodhpur
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Institute  successfully
organized Industry Day 2024 during 1st & 2nd February, 2024 to establish links
between Industries, Academic and Research Groups.
❑  Participants:  60+  Delegates  from  Industry  and  Corporate
The  Industry  Day-2024  witnessed  a  series  of  engaging  plenary  and
keynote  talks,  thought-provoking  panel  discussions,  and  captivating
exhibitions  centered  on  the  theme  of  embracing  innovation  for  a
sustainable future. The themes of discussion included the following:
o  AI Systems
o  Sensors and Edge Intelligence
o  Smart and Sustainable City
o  AR-VR and Metaverse
o  MedTech and Digital Healthcare:
o  Robotics and EV
o  Technologies for Sustainability
o  Clean Energy
Office of Alumni Relations
The Director further apprised the Board of Governors that the Office of Alumni
Relations,  IIT  Jodhpur  expanding  its  activities  to  connect  with  Alumni  and
briefed the BoG about following key initiatives:
➢  Organized  the  Alumni  Day  and  Dashak  2.0  during  27th-28th  January
2024:  Alumni  Reunion  and  recognizing  the  completion  of  10  years  since
graduation for the classes of 2014;
➢  4 Alumni from IIT Jodhpur were honored with the prestigious REYA-2023
Awards for their outstanding achievements during Alumni Day-2024.
➢  Launch of IITJ Alumni Newsletter- The IITJ Almanac;
➢  Mr. Bob Nathan, an IIT Alumnus, CEO of DataNet Systems Corp, USA and
the  Committee  Chair  for  Networking  and  Outreach,  IIT  2024  Global
Conference visited IIT Jodhpur;
➢  IIT  Jodhpur  delegation  participated  in  Global  Technology  Summit,
PIWOT-PanIIT World of Technology at Bengaluru;
➢  IIT  Jodhpur  delegation  participated  in  IIT2024  Global  Conference  at
USA organized by PanIIT USA Alumni Associations; and
➢  Inaugural Meet for Alumni Chapter at Hyderabad and Delhi NCR.
The Director also briefed the Alumni Success Stories / Achievement to the BoG
➢  Dr. Anurup Ganguli (B.Tech. ME, Class of 2013) who was working on a
stealth  launched  VedaBio  with  an  initial  funding  of  over  $40  million
backed by lead investor OMX Ventures along with a select group of family
offices, including Kleinmuntz Associates.
➢  The KuKu FM, the audio platform that revolutionized radio, established by
Mr.  Lal Chand Bisu,  Mr. Vikas Goyal,  and  Mr. Vinod  Kumar Meena,
who  are  Alumni  of  IIT  Jodhpur  recently  secured  a  substantial  investment
amounting to $25 Million in series C funding round co-led by the Nandan
Nilekani-founded  Fundamentum  Partnership  and  International  Finance
➢  Dr.  Tushar  Shinde,  a  Class  of  2020  IIT  Jodhpur  Alumnus,  who  after
completing  his  Ph.D.  in  Electrical  Engineering  and  Post-Doctoral  from  the
School  of  Medicine,  Stanford  University  has  recently  joined  as  an
Assistant  Professor  at  IIT  Madras  Zanzibar  Campus  –  the  FIRST
overseas IIT campus.
➢  Dr.  Anuj  Kumar,  B.Tech.  ME,  Class  of  2013  joined  as  a  Morrey  Visiting
Assistant Professor at the University of California, Berkeley.
➢  Dr. Sankha Narayan Guria, an IITJ Alumnus from the class of 2015, has
recently  joined  the  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering  and  Computer
Science as a Faculty at The University of Kansas.
➢  Dr. Arun Kumar Upadhyay, Ph.D. in Bioscience & Bioengineering, Class
of 2018 joined as an Assistant Professor at IIT Bhilai on Jan 2024.
Later, the Director apprised the Board of Governors about the following:
New Initiatives in the Pipeline:
1.  B.Sc.-B.Ed. in Science (Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics)
2.  MBA Tech. for Working Professionals (Trimester-Based)
•  Managing Digital Enterprises with Analytics & AI
•  Digital Product Design and Management
•  Fin Tech & Cyber Security
3.  Sports Quota for M.Sc. Programmes
4.  Online 4 Year staggered B.S. in Data Science and AI Applications
•  1st Year Certificate, 2nd Year Diploma, 3rd Year B.Sc.
In parallel with other programmes
5.  Joint  M.S.-Ph.D.  Programme  in  Astronomy  and  Astrophysics  in
collaboration  with  Aryabhatta  Research
Observational  Sciences  (ARIES),  Nainital  under  the  following
•  Data Analytics and AI in Astronomy and Astrophysics
•  Atmospheric Science
•  Geo-spatial Science & Technology
New R&D Initiatives
1.  IITJ-AIIMS Joint Centre for Med.-Tech. Innovation
2.  AI  Applications  for  enhancing  MRI  Imaging  System  with  Society  for
Applied  Microwave  Electronics  Engineering  &  Research  (SAMEER),
MeitY, GoI, Navi Mumbai
3.  Collaboration with National Law University (NLU), Jodhpur in the area of
Law and Technology
The  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  efforts  of  the  Director  for
taking  multiple  initiatives  especially  the  Chairman,  BoG  appreciated  the
initiative  taken  by  the  Institute  for  Joint  Centre  for  Med.-Tech.  with  AIIMS
Jodhpur  and  Innovation  and  collaboration  with  SAMEER,  Mumbai.  The
Members of the BoG also noted the Institute Report with appreciation.
SP.13.2.1  To consider the proposal of amendment in the Statutes of the Institute
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Ministry  of  Education,
Govt.  of  India  has  proposed  an  Amendment  in  the  relevant  Clause  of  the
Statutes  of  all  IITs  regarding  “in  the  event  of  the  occurrence  of  any
vacancy in the office of the Chairman, Board of Governors”.
He  further  briefed  the  BoG  that  any  amendment  in  the  Statutes  of  IITs  shall
require  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  IITs  and  thereafter  the
assent  of  The  Visitor  of  the  Institute  (The  Hon’ble  President  of  India)  as  per
the Act & Statutes of the Institute. The Ministry of Education has suggested to
the  IITs  to  take  approval  from  the  respective  Board  of  Governors  of  IITs  and
thereafter send the proposal after recommendation of the BoG to the Ministry of
Education, Govt. of India for taking further necessary action.
After detailed deliberations, the Board of Governors recommended the proposal
of  the  following  amendment  in  the  Statutes  of  the  Institute  for  onward
submission to the Ministry of Education, Govt. of India:
Existing  Clause  of  Statutes  of
IIT  Jodhpur  -  Clause  12  (2)
Proposed  Amendment  by  the  MoE  in
Clause 12 (2) (xv)
In  the  event  of  the  occurrence  of
any  vacancy  in  the  office  of  the
Chairman  of  Board  of  Governors
by reason of death, resignation or
otherwise  or  in  the  event  of  the
discharge  his  functions  owing  to
illness  or  any  other
the  Director  may
discharge  any  or  all
Chairman under Statute 10.
In  the  event  of  the  occurrence  of  any
vacancy  in  the  office  of  the  Chairman  of
Board of Governors by reason of expiry of
tenure, death, resignation or otherwise or
in the event of the Chairman being unable
functions  owing  to
to  discharge  his
absence,  illness  or  any  other  cause, one
of  the  Chairmen  of  the  Institutes  of
the  Visitor,  may
discharge  any  or  all  the  functions
assigned  to  the  Chairman  under
Statute 10 for a period of six months
or  appointment  of  regular  Chairman,
whichever is earlier. In case of expiry
of tenure, the  Visitor may extend the
term of the incumbent Chairman for a
appointment  of  regular  chairman,
whichever is earlier.
six  months  or
The Meeting concluded with thanks to the Chair and Members of the Board of Governors.
Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur