Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
14th March, 2023 (Tuesday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 32nd Meeting
14th March, 2023 (Tuesday), 11:00 A.M.
Board Room , IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present in the 32nd Meeting of the Board of Governors:
1.    Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to Govt. of India
2.    Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.    Prof. N.S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
4.    Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
5.    Prof. Richa Singh, Deptt. of CS&E, IITJ
6.    Dr.  Manish  Gupta,  Joint  Secretary  (TE),  Govt.  of  Rajasthan
(Representative of State Govt. Nominee)
7.    Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
8.    Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar
Ms. Saumya Gupta, Joint Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education, Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain,
Members,  BoG,  and  Sh.  P.G.  Basak,  Advisor  (Admn.),  Spl.  Invitee  could  not  attend  the  Meeting  due  to
other pressing engagements.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:
32.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BoG
The Chairman, Board of Governors,  welcomed  Prof. Richa Singh,  Deptt. of CS&E,
IIT  Jodhpur  for  joining  the  meeting  of  Board  of  Governors  for  the  first  time  as
Senate Nominee. The Board also placed on record the contributions of Prof. Surajit
Ghosh,   Deptt.  of  Bioscience  &  Bioengineering,  IIT  Jodhpur  as  Member,  Board  of
Governors, in the capacity of Senate Nominee as outgoing Member of BoG.
Then, the Chairman, BoG, welcomed all other Members and  called the meeting in
32.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes of the 31st Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 11th November, 2022 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The Board of Governors, confirmed the Minutes of the 31st Meeting of the Board of
Governors, as circulated.
32.1.2  Presentation  by  the  two  faculty  members  on  their  research  work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
As  per  the  decision  of  the  BoG  taken  in  its  24th  Meeting  held  on  5.12.2020,  the
following two Faculty Members  of the  Institute made presentations before the BoG
about their research work:
1.  Dr.  Ravi  K.R.,  Associate  Professor  &  Head,  Department  of  Metallurgical  and
Materials Engineering made a presentation and explained about the translational
research  being  conducted  by  his  research  team  in  the  areas  of  "Additive
Manufacturing  (AM)"  and  "Self-Cleaning  Coating".  He  discussed  how  research
team  at  IIT  Jodhpur  has  developed
the  "Indigenous  Metal  Additive
Manufacturing  Machine."  Additionally,  he  briefed  about  his  current  work  on
developing  closed-loop  control  in  metal  AM  machines  to  regulate  the
microstructure  and  mechanical  properties  of  laser  additive  manufactured
materials in real-time.
The  Chairman,  BoG  suggested  exploring  the  methodology  of  utilizing  the  Metal
AM  machine  developed  by  IIT  Jodhpur  for  research  by  the  Defense  and
Department of Atomic Energy. Dr. Ravi further explained the coating technology
developed for easy and self-cleaning of solar panels. He also elaborated on the
Transparent  Anti-fogging  coating  developed
association with AIIMS Jodhpur.
for  Endoscope  cameras
The  BoG  suggested  making  efforts  to  establish  Startup  company  and
commercialize  the  "Metal  AM  technology"  and  "Self-cleaning  and  Anti-fogging
2.  Dr.  Suril  V  Shah,  Associate  Professor  and  Head,  Department  of  Mechanical
Engineering,  presented  his  research  on  Space  Robots,  an  essential component
of  future  autonomous  On-Orbit  Services  (OOSs)  missions. Dr.  Shah  first
reactionless  manipulation,  post-impact  control,
identification,  and  predictive control  under
uncertainty for a multi-arm space robot towards the capture of space debris. He
also  presented  works  on  reactionless  visual  servoing,  servoing  to  tumbling
objects, and probabilistic model-based visual servoing for autonomous proximity
operations  using  a  space  robot.   A  unique  earth-based  prototype  of  a
space robot  was  also  developed  for  validating  various  algorithms. It  was
highlighted  that  these  research  activities  led  to  active  collaboration  with  the
ISRO  Inertial  Systems  Unit  (IISU)  on  dynamics,  identification,  motion  planning
and  visual  servoing  of  half  humanoid  for  the  Gaganyaan  program  and
reactionless manipulation of space robots in the form of two RESPOND projects.
BoG  Chair  and  members  appreciated  the  presented  research  on  space  robotics
and  active  engagement  with  ISRO.  Further,  it  was  suggested  to  have  an  MoU
with IISU in the area of space robotics to strengthen ongoing collaboration.
The Chairman, BoG, and Members appreciated the presentations made by both the
32.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The  Director  presented  the  Institute  Report  before  the  Board  of  Governors  as
  The Institute is offering 79 Academic Programs;
  From  the  AY  2023-24,  the  Institute  is  planning  to  offer  new  Programs  like
M.S.  by  Research,  MBA  Program  in  FinTech  and  Cyber  Security  and  M.DeS.
in XR / Immersive Media;
  The  present  faculty  strength  is  232,  Non-Faculty  strength  is  125  and
Student strength is 4058;
  Financial  parameters  such  as;  Initial  Budget  Sanction,  Grant  Received  v/s
Actual  Expenditure  Analysis-2022-23,  Revised  Estimates-2022-23,  Fund
received  from  MoE  and  Actual  Expenses-2022-23,  Quarter  wise  Grant
released by the MoE and Details of HEFA Loans; and
  The Progress of Research & Development (R&D) Projects was also reported.
The  Director  further  informed  the  Board  of  Governors  about  various  Events
happened / Proposed since the last Meeting of BoG, at the Institute:
  Workshop on Field Robotics: 11-12th March, 2023
  1st Indian Conference on Med-Tech Innovations (ICMI): 24-26th Feb., 2023
  Conclave for Friends of IIT Jodhpur: 11-12th February 2023
  IIT Jodhpur's Open House - Padharo 2.0: 4th February, 2023
  Industry Day 2023: 3-4th February, 2023
  The  Director  further  apprised  the  Board  that  IIT  Jodhpur  decided  to  have  a
set  of  Academic  events  commemorating  IITJ@15  from  March,  2023  to
August,  2023.  The
launched  by  Dr.  S.
inaugural  event  will  be
Chandrasekhar, Secretary, DST, Govt. of India on 16th March, 2023
  IITJ-University of Buffalo CoE on Artificial Intelligence and Data Science will
be formally initiated through an MoU on 19th March, 2023
  It  was  informed  to  the  BoG  that  Foundation  Stone  was  laid  for  Rishabh
Centre for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy on 11th Feb.2023
  New  Centre  of  Excellence  (CoE)  on  IP  in  School  of  Manageement  &
  Govt. of Rajasthan approved the AIOT Hub
The  Chairman,  BoG,  and  members  appreciated  the  Institute  Report  presented  by
the  Director  for  continuous  growth  of  the  Institute  through  his  determined  efforts
and noted the same.
32.2.1  Action Taken Report on previous decisions of the Board of Governors
The Board of Governors noted the Action Taken Report (ATR).
32.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
32.3.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  28th  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee held on 13th March, 2023 at IIT Jodhpur
The  recommendations  of  the  Finance  Committee  made  in  its  28th  meeting  held  on
13th  March,  2023  were  presented  before  the  BoG.  The  BoG  approved  the
recommendations  of  the  28th  Meeting  of  the  Finance  Committee    and  made
observations on the following items, and approved as under:
28.2.1: Statement of Expenditure as on 28th February 2023
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The  Finance  Committee  noted  the  fund  position  of  the  Institute  as  on  28th
February,  2023.  The  Finance  Committee  also  noted  that  the  MoE  is  releasing
Grant-in-Aid at the end of the Month, therefore, in case if the GIA is not available,
the Institute has to manage its activities from its own fund and recoup the same
whenever the sufficient fund is available in GIA.”
28.2.3:  Implementation of Payment of Gratuity Act 1972 for the Employees
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The  Finance  Committee  deliberated  on  the  proposal  in  detail  and  also  noted
comments  of  the  Integrated  Finance  Division  (IFD),  MoE  and  recommended  the
following to the Board of Governors for approval:
1.  Implementation of Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 in the Institute;
2.  Investment  of  Liabilities  of  Retirement  Benefits  (Gratuity  and  Leave
Encashment)  for  the  serving  employees  with  the  LIC  as  per  the  actuarial
3.  The Institute will deal the cases of former employees / deceased employees in
light with the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.”
28.2.4:  Implementation  of  House  Building  Advance  (HBA)  for  the
Employees of IITJ
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The  Finance  Committee  deliberated  on  the  proposal  in  detail  and  also  noted
comments of the Integrated Finance Division (IFD), MoE. The FC recommended the
following to the Board of Governors for approval:
Implement the House Building Advance (HBA) for the employees of the Institute as
per the recommendation of the 7th CPC.
The  FC  recommended  constituting  the  following  Committee  to  deliberate  on
operational aspects of HBA for its implementation:
1.  Sh. Ashoke Guha, Member, FC- Chairman
2.  Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar – Member
3.  Dr. Deepak Fulwani, AD (PRG)- Member
4.  Sh. Ashish Kachhawaha, AR (Accounts) – Member-Convenor
The  Finance  Committee  authorized  the  Chairman,  FC  &  BoG  to  approve  the
recommendations of  the constituted Committee for implementation of HBA for the
employees of IIT Jodhpur.”
28.2.5: Interim Report of the Task Force for New Financial Model
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The  Director  presented  the  recommendations  of  the  Task  Force  constituted  for
New Financial Model of the Institute before the Finance Committee. The purpose of
the Financial Model has been designed to assist in actualization of the Vision of IIT
Jodhpur.  Therefore,  to  necessarily  include  measures  for  innovative  resource
mobilization for financing, operational expenses, growth capital, research expenses,
and robust mechanism for financial planning, budgeting, MIS and accountability.
The  Finance  Committee  noted  various  recommendations  of  Task  Force  and
suggested minor changes as below:
1.  Objective: To rephrase the sentence as “Efficiency in expenditure, both revenue
and  capital”  instead  of  “Adopting  efficiency  in  expenditure,  both  revenue  and
2.  Suggested  to  change  the  recommendation  regarding  “Executive  Education
Champion”.  FC  suggested  that  each  academic  unit  should  appoint  a  faculty  as
“Industry  Interface  Coordinator  “to  enhance  engagement  of  the  academic  unit
with the industry.
Considering  the  recommendation  of  the  Task  Force  regarding  the  adoption  of  the
PPP Mode, the Director submitted to the Finance Committee that the Institute may
be allowed to establish the Guest House Construction in PPP Mode as the Ministry of
Education  is  also  encouraging  the  IITs  to  go  for  PPP  Model  and  reduce  its
dependence on the HEFA Loans for such capital investments.
The Finance Committee welcomed the proposal of the Director and recommended it
to  the  Board  of  Governors  for  its  approval.  The  FC  also  suggested  exploring  the
other possibilities / proposals in PPP Mode.”
28.2.6: To consider the Investment Policy of the Institute
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“After  detailed  deliberations  on  the  proposed  Investment  Policy  for  investment  of
Funds  generated  through  Endowment,  Donation,  and  Institute’s  IRG,  the  FC
recommended that the Investment in Government Securities / Bonds / other Money
Market Instruments & Equity Investments should be done through Mutual Funds with
The  Finance  Committee  recommended  the  same  to  the  Board  of  Governors  and
suggested bringing the Constitution of the Committee at the beginning of the Policy
28.2.7:  To  consider  the  guidelines  for  appointment  and  emoluments  of
Faculty  Member(s)  as  Emeritus  Professor  /  Distinguished  Professor/
Visiting  Professor  /  Professor  of  Practice  /  Scholar-in-Residence  /  Guest
Faculty, etc. at IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The  Finance  Committee  noted  and  considered  the  comments  of  the  Integrated
Finance  Division  (IFD),  MoE.  It  recommended  the  guidelines  for  appointment  and
emoluments  (from  the  Salary  Head)  of  Faculty  Member(s)  as  Emeritus  Professor  /
Distinguished  Professor/  Visiting  Professor  /  Professor  of  Practice  /  Scholar-in-
Residence  /  Guest  Faculty,  etc.  at  IIT  Jodhpur,  to  the  Board  of  Governors  for
28.2.8:  To  consider  the  Agreement  to  be  signed  with  the  M/s.  Rishabh
Instruments  Ltd.  and  Ivaan  Foundation  towards  undertaking  various
activities  of  the  Rishabh  Centre  for  Research  and  Innovation  in  Clean
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The  Finance  Committee  discussed  the  salient  features  of  the  Agreement  and
suggested to finalize the Agreement considering the comments of Sh. Ashoke  Guha,
Member,  Finance  Committee.  It  recommended  the  signing  of  the  Agreement  after
incorporating  the  suggested  changes  (of  Sh.  Guha  as  well  as  Sh.  Bhandari,  FC,
Members) to the Board of Governors for its approval.”
28.2.9: To consider and recommend the Policy for Write-off the obsolete /
unserviceable assets of the Institute
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The  Finance  Committee  discussed  the  Policy  for  Write-off  the  obsolete  /
unserviceable  assets  of  the  Institute  and  noted  that  the  Policy  is  in  line  with  the
procedure  laid  down  in  GFR  2017,  Guidelines  lines  issued  by  Govt.  of  India  and
practice being followed by other IITs.
The FC recommended the policy to the Board of Governors for approval.”
28.2.10: To revise the guidelines to provide the partial financial support to
regular  Ph.D.  Students  for  presenting  Research  Work  in  National  and
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The Finance Committee noted the requirement of enhancement in partial Financial
support  to  regular  Ph.D.  Students  to  present  their  Research  Work  in  reputed
National and International Conferences beside the existing partial financial support
of Rs.25,000/- being met out from GIA for attending the National Conferences and
collecting the Data from the field.
The Chairman, FC, suggested enhancing the partial financial support up to Rs.2.00
lakhs  in  the  exceptional  cases  with  high  quality  R&D  work  to  be  presented  in  the
International Conferences of repute. The FC recommended the same.
Considering  the  comments  of  IFD,  MOE,  the  FC  recommended  that  the  Institute
may  meet  the  financial  requirement  of  this  scheme  from  its  own  financial
28.2.11: To consider and recommend the payment of Outstanding Rent and
handing over the Left-over Assets to the JNVU
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“After detailed deliberation, the Finance committee recommended the following to the
Board of Governors for approval:
Payment  of  Outstanding  Rent  of  Rs.  2,49,82,420/-  to  the  JNVU  after  the
withdrawal of the Arbitration case by the JNVU; and
(ii)  Handing over the leftover Assets to the JNVU and adjusting the value of Assets
in the Books of Account.”
28.2.12:  To  provide  the  Non-Practicing  Allowance  (NPA)  to  the  Scientific
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The Finance Committee discussed on the comments received from the IFD, MOE
that  Contract  Staff  are  paid  consolidated  remuneration  and  no  allowances  are
admissible to them.
The Director apprised the Finance Committee that the Position of Scientific Officer
(Veterinary)  is  permanent  position  against  the  sanctioned  strength  in  a  regular
Pay Level along with admissible allowances as per the 7th CPC and eligible to draw
NPA as per the Govt. guidelines.
The  Finance  Committee  agreed  to  the  submission  of  the  Director  and
recommended the payment of Non-Practicing Allowance (NPA) as per the rules for
the post of Scientific Officer (Veterinary) to the Board of Governors.”
28.4.1:  To  consider  and  recommend  the  revision  of  fee  structure  for  the
students of M.Tech. under Self-sponsored category
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Finance  Committee  recommended  the  proposal
for  revision  of  the  current  Tuition  Fee  of  Rs.  39,000  per  semester  to  Rs  3,000/-
Per  Credit-per-semester  for  the  Students  of  M.Tech.  under  Self-sponsored
category  for  the  batch  starting  July  2023.  The  Semester  Fee  and  other  fee
components will be charged as per the existing norms.
The FC recommended the same to the Board of Governors for approval.”
28.4.2: To consider and recommend securing five (5) seats for TISC in the
upcoming IIT Alumni Centre Bengaluru (IITACB)
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March, 2023:
“The  Finance  Committee  evaluated  the  need  and  recommend  payment  of  Rs.25
Lakhs towards securing 05 seats in IITACB, to the Board of Governors for approval.”
32.3.2  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  29th  Meeting  of  the
Building  &  Works  Committee  (B&WC)  held  on  15th  February,  2023  at  IIT
The  Board  of  Governors  was  apprised  that  the  recommendations  of  the  29th
meeting  of  the  Building  &  Works  Committee  held  on  15th  February,  2023  were
placed before the Finance Committee in its 28th meeting held on 13th March, 2023.
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee and accorded AA&ES as per below:
“The  Finance  Committee  noted  the  recommendations  of  the  Building  &  Works
Committee made in its 29th Meeting held on 15th February, 2023 and recommended the
following to the Board of Governors:
1.  The  Finance  Committee  recommended  the  Administrative  Approval &  Expenditure
Sanction  (AA&ES)  amounting  up  to  Rs.  7.65  Cores towards  setting  up of  1.0 MW
Solar Power Plant at the Institute.
2.  The  Finance  Committee  also  recommended  the  other  recommendations  of  B&WC
to the Board of Governors for approval.”
32.3.3  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  32nd  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on 20th December, 2022 at IIT Jodhpur
The Board noted and approved various recommendations of the Senate.
32.3.4  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  33rd  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on 1st March, 2023 at IIT Jodhpur
The Board noted and approved various recommendations of the Senate.
To  consider  and  approve  the  revised  Entrepreneurship  Policy  of  the
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  in  the  new  Entrepreneurship
Policy,  the  scope  of  policy  has  been  widened  to  give  opportunity  not  only  to  the
Faculty  but  also  to  the  Group  A  Officers  &  others  to  take  part  in  entreprenural
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  same  and  approved  the  revised
Entrepreneurship Policy of the Institute.
To  consider  and  approve  the  Summary  of  the  Internal  Review  Reports  of
The Board of Governors deliberated on the Summary of the Internal Review Reports
of the Departments and suggested to take appropriate actions as recommended for
the development of reviwed Departments.
To consider the Report of the Institute Review Committee
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  IIT  Jodhpur  constituted  the
Institute  Review  Committee  comprising  following  eminent  experts  from  Academia
and Industry for the Institute Review:
1. Prof. Surendra Prasad, Former Director, IIT Delhi
2. Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Former Secretary, DST, New Delhi, Govt. of India
3. Prof. Partha P. Chakrabarti, Former Director, IIT Kharagpur
4. Dr. Aloknath De, CTO, M/s Samsung India, Bengaluru
The  Committee  conducted  the  Institute  Review  during  28-31st  October,  2022  and
has submitted its Report.
The Director further briefed the Board of Governors about the key recommendations
of the Institute Review Committee such as; the Institute should make all efforts to
increase  the  Faculty  Strength  and  to  Create  more  Lab  spaces,  etc.  The  Director
informed the BoG that  the  Institute has been  conducting  Faculty recruitment drive
through Mission mode and also planned for more Lab Spaces in the upcoming 2 and
6 Storied Buildings.
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  Report  of  the
Institute  Review  Committee  and  suggested  to  take  appropriate  actions  as
recommended for further development of the Institute.
To consider and  approve the  Policy for Hiring Foreign Nationals as Faculty
at IIT Jodhpur
After  detailed  deliberations  on  the  policy  for  hiring  Foreign  Nationals  as  Faculty  at
IIT Jodhpur, the BoG suggested that the Age limit at Professor Level be increased to
60  Years  to  have  the  flexibility  to  attract  eminent  foreign  faculty  at  the  Professor
The  BoG  approved  the  policy  with  this  minor  change  in  the  age  for  the  Professor
Level Foreign Faculty.
To consider and approve the outcome of the Annual Performance Review of
Faculty Members of different Departments/ Schools/ Centers
The  Board  noted  the  outcome  of  the  Annual  Performance  Review  of  Faculty
Members of different Departments/ Schools/ Centers and approved the same.
To  consider  the  partial  amendment  in  the  House  Allotment  Rules  (HARs)
2017 of the Institute
After  detailed  deliberation,  the  Board  noted  that  other  IITs  such  as,  IIT  Delhi  has
provision  that  employees  can  change  allotted  accommodation  after  1  Year  instead
of proposed 3 Years. So IIT Jodhpur can also have similar provision.
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  following  partial  amendment  in  the  existing
House Allotment Rules of the Institute for the benefit of the employees:
2.3  (2)  Condition  of  Allotment  and
Rules of Occupancy:
2.3  (2)  Condition  of  Allotment  and
Rules of Occupancy:
“No change of allotment of a house is
permissible  within  the  same  category
of  housing  on  Campus;  unless
otherwise  approved  by  HAC  based  on
very genuine or health reasons".
“Change  of  allotment  of  a  house
permissible  within  the  same  category  of
housing  on  Campus  only  after
completion of 1 year of house occupation
approved by  HAC  based on  very  genuine
or health reasons.”
To  consider  the  recommendations  of  the  House  Allotment  Committee
(HAC) of the Institute
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  and  approved  the  recommendations  of  House
Allotment Committee (HAC) made in its 11th Meeting held on 19th January, 2023.
To  consider  the  proposal  for  appointment  of  Pandit  Ajoy  Chakrabarty  as a
Scholar-In-Residence in the School of Liberal Arts (SoLA)
The Board of Governors appreciated the proposal and approved the appointment of
Pandit  Ajoy  Chakrabarty  as  Scholar-In-Residence  in  the  School  of  Liberal  Arts
(SoLA) of the Institute.
To consider the appointment of Prof. Surajit Ghosh as Dean (IR, AR, CR)
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  appointment  of  Prof.  Surajit  Ghosh  as  Dean
Dean (International Relations, Alumni Relations and Corporate Relations).
To  consider  and  approve  addition  in  the  panel  of  experts  for  selection  of
Faculty  Positions  in  the  (i)  School  of  Management  &  Entrepreneurship
(SME) and (ii) School of Liberal Arts (SoLA)
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  Panel  of  Experts  for  the  selection  of  Faculty
positions in the SME and SoLA in addition to the existing panel.
To consider  and  approve  the  addition to the panel  of  experts for  selection
of Non-Faculty positions
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  Panel  of  Experts  for  the  selection  of  Non-
Faculty positions in addition to the existing panel.
32.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
32.4.1  Report on the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020
The Board noted the report on the implementation of the National Education Policy-
2020  as  presented  in  the  Agenda  and  appreciated  the  initiatives  taken  by  the
Institute towards the implementation of the NEP-2020.
32.4.2  Report on the status of filling up Backlog vacancies
The  Board  noted  the  report  on  the  status  of  the  filling-up  of  backlog  vacancies  as
presented in the Agenda and appreciated the efforts made by the Institute towards
filling up vacancies.
32.4.3  Report  on  Faculty  Members  and  Staff  Members  joining  and  resigning  from
The BoG noted the report.
32.4.4  Adoption of Circulars of Ministry of Education, Government of India
The Board approved the adoption of the O.Ms. as presented in the Agenda.
32.4.5  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
since the last meeting of the BoG
The Board noted the  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of
the Institute since the last meeting of the BoG.
32.4.6  Report  of  MoUs/Agreement(s)  signed  with  different  Institutions  /
organizations / companies by the Institute
The Board noted the Report of MoUs/Agreement(s) signed with different Institutions
/ Organizations / Companies by the Institute.
32.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
32.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
Reports of Selection Committees of Post-Doctoral Fellowships
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG as presented in the
(b)  Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note on extension /
appointment through Standing Committee
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG, as presented in the
Reports of Selection Committees of Staff Members
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  /  Director  as
presented in the Agenda.
(d)  Reports  of  Selection  Committees  of  Limited  Departmental  Examination
The Board ratified approval as presented in the Agenda.
(e)  Various approvals accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note.
The Board ratified approvals as presented in the Agenda.
32.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
32.6.1  To consider and approve the formation of Section-8 Company – “AIC –IIT
The Director briefed the Board  of  Governors that  IIT Jodhpur has been  selected to
host  Atal  Incubation  Centre  under  the  Atal  Innovation  Mission  (AIM),  NITI
AAYOG,  Govt.  of  India  for  establishing  Innovative  Technology  based  Incubation
Centre to promote Startups that would impact core sectors of the economy.
He  further  apprised  the  BoG  that  as  per  the  guidelines,  a  Section-8  Company
named as 'AIC-IIT JODHPUR' has to be formed by IIT Jodhpur with a paid up of
Capital of Rs. 1,00,000/- to be paid by IIT Jodhpur.
The Board of Governors appreciated and approved the proposal.
After  the  conclusion  of  the  Meeting  of  the  BoG,  the  Registrar  &  Secretary,  BoG  thanked  the
Chairman, BoG and the Members for their invaluable time and crtical inputs.
Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur