Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
10th Special Meeting
16 December 2019 (Monday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 10th Special Meeting
16 December 2019 (Monday), 04:00 P.M.
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members attended the meeting:
Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to GoI
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Dr. Rakesh Sarwal, Additional Secretary (TE), MHRD
Director & Member
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera,
Professor, Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Professor,
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering, IIT Jodhpur
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admn.) & Offg. Registrar
The following members were unable to attend the meeting:
1.    Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, MD & CEO, Jain Irrigation, Jalgaon
2.    Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
(granted leave of absence)
The following are the decisions of the Board on the items of the Agenda:
S10.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
The Chairman welcomed all the Members of the Board of Governors especially  Dr.
Rakesh Sarwal, Additional Secretary (TE), MHRD,  who was attending the meeting
for  the  first  time.  Dr.  Sarwal  attended  the  meeting  through  Video-conferencing.
After that, Chairman, BoG called the meeting in Order.
S-10.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The  Director  presented  a  detailed  report  of  the  Institute  before  the  Board
(through  Power-Point  Presentation)  outlined  in  Four  Verticals  (a)  Present
Academic  Programs  (b)  Program  wise  Student Strength (c)  Faculty  Strength  (d)
Research & Development and progress since last Board meeting.
The  Board  was  apprised  that  the  Institute  currently  offering  44  Academic
Programs and current Student strength of 1444.
Further, the Director also apprised the Board that the Faculty strength reached to
126  (including  Professor,  Associate  Professor,  Assistant  Professor,  Visiting
Professor,  Young  Faculty  Associate  and  offered  faculty  positions)  owing  to
rigorous faculty recruitment drive by the Institute.  The Research & Development
Projects  (including Sponsored,  Consultancy  and  Research  Award)  reached  to  88
as on 16 December 2019 and also Department-wise Project Status, Category wise
on-going Projects and status of patents filed by the Institute.
Later, the Director briefed the Board about new Academic Programs approved by
the Senate as below:
(A) New UG and PG programmes in
–  Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
–  Chemical Engineering; and
–  Materials Engineering.
(B) Master in Business Administration
(C) M.Sc  Programme in Digital Humanities (to be run by IDRP)
(D) Joint Masters and Ph.D. in Medical Technology with AIIMS Jodhpur
(E)  Capability linked double degree programme
–  B.Tech in Engineering Science  & B.Tech in (specialisation)
(F)  Joint Master and Ph.d Program with AIIMS Jodhpur
Initiation of Joint Degree Programs IIT J & AIIMS J
–  Masters in Medical Technology
–  Ph.D  in Medical Technology
–  Rules  and  guidelines  to   be tailored to meet  specific  requirement  of  the
–  Smart Healthcare IDRP will manage this programme
(G)  A New M.Sc  Programme in Digital Humanities
(H)  New Research Highlights:
–  Highly sensitive device/sensor to detect cadmium, lead and hydrogen;
–  Catalytic converter for automobiles using Rajasthani clay;
–  Filter  for  drinking  water  treatment  and  its  use  for  chemical  free
–  Development  of  therapeutic  leads,  markers  for  Neurodegenerative
disease  and  brain  cancer  as  well  as  discovering  fundamental insights  of
(I)  New Centers to support Research:
–  Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy
To work on also strategic plan of the institute
–  Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development.
Focus on water, agriculture, health, food
(J)  Innovation and Incubation:
IIT Jodhpur has been recognized as Host Institute; and
IITJ-  Technology  Innovation  and  Startup  Centre  (TISC)  has  been
approved for financial support by
  Ministry of MSME; and
  Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for incubation
  12 projects recommended.
(K)  Outreach  Activities:  The  Director  further  apprised  the  BoG  about  the
Outreach  Activities  undertaken  by  the  Institute  under  Unnat  Bharat
Abhiyan  (UBA)  and  latest  developments  and  achievement  under  Sirohi
(L)  International Relations:
–  The Office of International Relations is established
Agreement singed with Nara University, Japan
Agreement likely to be singed with KMU, Taiwan, and UT Troyes,
–  Initiative regarding Admission of International Students
Various Government of India schemes
ASEAN fellowships, Study in India, IntApp initiative, ICCR, sponsored
PhD programs, etc.
–  Active participation of Faculty members in joint research schemes
Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute, ASEM-DUO, GIAN, SPARC
The Institute is planning to engage actively with foreign universities by
student and faculty exchange,
joint research projects, workshops, symposia, conferences etc.
Later the Director briefed the Board of Governors about the Action Taken
by the Institute on the recommendations of the IIT Council:
Action Taken on the recommendation of the IIT Council taken in its 52nd meeting
held on 20 August 2018 as under:
International Student Admission
IITJ part of ASEAN Scheme- Two offers made in December
IITJ Actively involved in Study in India Programme
IITJ Planning to develop a hostel block with improved facility
–  Working for offering online programmes - in discussion with Courseera
(B)     Extension activities for improving Engineering Education
Identified  4  Engineering  Colleges
registration for students in our workshops
for  mentoring  -we  allowed  free
–  Started  Part-time  PG  programmes  which  can  be  used  by  teachers  of
Engineering college teachers
(C)     Linking with National Laboratories
–  MoU with CSIR concluded
–  MoU’s with DLJ, Jodhpur and IARI, Pusa in pipeline
–  Team is visiting IIT Kharagpur to finalize the process
–  Considering signing of MoU with IITKGP.
Action Taken on the recommendation of the IIT Council taken in its 53rd  meeting
held on 27 September 2019 as under:
(A) Entrepreneurship Development
–  Entrepreneurship minor and Dual degree Programme for B.Tech
Innovation Support through Institute Innovation Council
Translation and Incubation Support to Ph.D’s
TISC now recognized by MSME & MEITY
12 product proposals recommended to the apex committee of
MSME for possible support
(B)  Alignment with Future Engineering Needs
–  Academic  Programmes
frontier  areas  –  AI,  CPS,  IOT,  Smart
–  B.Tech in AI & DS to be started in the next academic session
–  B.Tech & M.tech curriculum revised in line with emerging trends
Machine  Learning,  IOT,    CPS  oriented  courses  at  core  asnd
(C)  Dealing with Weak Students
Three year BSc.  In Engineering Science is planned
(D) Research Productivity of Faculty
Is being monitored annually through appraisal and advisories provided
(E)  Review of Concessions (report to be submitted)
Consultation process is on
(F) IIT Alumni Centre at Bangalore
IIT Jodhpur has contributed Rs.25 Lakhs as its first installment.
(G)Encouraging Alumni Funding
Ministry should encourage Pan-IIT alumni to consider new IIT’s also for
possible support expanding the culture of philanthropic donations
(H) Peer Review
Expert List is being prepared
Initiated course-file repository for required documentation
Subsequently,  the  Chairman,  BoG  discussed  the  initiatives  and  success  story  of
Jaipur  Foot  founded  by  Sh.  D.  R.  Mehta,  Padma  Bhushan  functioning  under
Bhagwan Mahaveer  Viklang Sahayata  Samiti (BMVSS)  which provides  prosthetics
or artificial limbs, calipers and other physical aids and appliances, free of charge,
to as many disabled people as possible through its centres, outreach programmes
and rehabilitation camps, both in India and abroad. The Director was also apprised
that Sh. D.R. Mehta was a former Member, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur in the
capacity of Council Nominee on the Board of Governors.
The Director stated that Institute would invite him to discuss the further prospects
of association between the Institute and Jaipur Foot. Also, Institute would request
him for a lecture at the Institute.
The Board of Governors appreciated the detailed Institute Report presented by the
Director  especially  progress made by the Institute since  last meeting of the BOG
and  placed  on  record  the  appreciation  for  the  various  initiatives  taken  by  the
Director in various facets of functioning.
Interaction  with  Dr.  Rakesh  Sarwal,  Member,  BoG  and  Additional
Secretary (TE), MHRD
Dr. Rakesh Sarwal, Additional Secretary (TE), MHRD participated through Video-
Conferencing. Dr. Sarwal requested the Director to share any issue related to the
MHRD  which  required  to  be  discussed.  The  Director  apprised  that  presently  the
student strength is 1444 and strength would reach to 2500 students by 2020-21
as  per  projection.  To  accommodate  2500  students,  Institute  would  require
additional space and requisite infrastructure and Institute should plan strategically
well  in  advance  for  the  same.  He  further  shared  with  Dr.  Sarwal  that  Institute
would require an additional HEFA loan for  expansion of infrastructure building to
accommodate  2500  student  strength.  And  further  clarified  that  at  this  time,  we
required pre-approval for planning for another HEFA Loan.
Also, the Director apprised  and expressed his concern  about the fund position of
the  Institute  under  the  Salary  and  Recurring  Head  which  are  currently  under
minus.  And  requested  Dr.  Sarwal  to  intervene  on  the  matter.  AS  (TE)  said  that
other IITs also requesting for same and MHRD looking into the matter.
After  detailed  deliberation  on  the  matter,  Dr.  Sarwal  agreed  in-principle  to  go
ahead  to  planning  but  said  the  final  proposal  should  be  routed  through  Finance
Committee and then approved by the Board of Governors.
Later,  Dr.  Sarwal  sought  permission  of  the  Chair  to  discuss  issues  other  than
Agenda  of  the  Meeting.  The  Chairman,  BoG  welcomed  Dr.  Sarwal  to  share  his
inputs. He requested the Director to share his views over NIRF Ranking of the IIT
Jodhpur and slow pace of construction work.
The Director apprised the BoG that one of the major factor of low Ranking of the
Institute was less Student-faculty Ratio which was  affecting the Academics, R&D
and  overall  parameters  of  the  Institute.  He  further  apprised  Dr.  Sarwal  and  the
BoG  that  now  Institute  significantly  improved  its  Student-Faculty  Ratio  (faculty
strength  reached  to  126),  R&D  initiatives,  Curriculum  re-structuring  and  same
would help the Institute to improve its Ranking in the ensuring years.
On the matter of slow pace construction work, the Director apprised the BoG that
the  bottleneck  behind  are  the  Contractor(s)  as  they  are  not  delivering  as  per
expectations.  The  Director  further  apprised  the  BoG  that  Institute  held  several
meetings with CPWD and Contractors to solve the issues which causing delay.
S-10.3.1  To approve:
(i)  Conferment  of  Degrees  to  the  B.Tech.,  M.Tech.,  M.Sc.  and  Ph.D
Students  after  completing  all  the  academic  requirements  during  the
session 2018 - 2019, and
(ii)  Award  of  Medals  to  the  Students  during  the  5th  Convocation  of  the
The  Director  presented  the  item  and  apprised  the  BoG  that  the  Senate  of  the
Institute in its 18th and 19th Meeting recommended to Confer the Degrees to total
224  students  during  the  5th  Convocation  of  the  Institute  to  be  held  on  17th
December  2019.  He  further  presented  program  wise  summary  of  the  graduating
students as below:
The  Director  also  apprised  the  BoG  that  the  Chairman,  Senate  approved  the
recommendations of the Scholarships and Prizes Committee to award the various
Medals to the meritorious students in the 5th Convocation of the Institute.
The Board of Governors approved the recommendation of the Senate.
S-10.3.2  To consider and approve the recommendations of the 19th Meeting of the
Senate held 09 December 2019.
The Minutes of the 19th Meeting of the Senate was placed on the table during the
meeting.  After  detailed  discussions,
recommendations of the Senate:
(1) Creation of New Academic Entities
the  Board  approved
a.  School of Management and Entrepreneurship
b.  Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy
c.  Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development
(2) Proposal for Starting of MBA Programme
(3) Proposal of New B.Tech programmes to be started from AY 2020 Semester I
(4) Capability linked Double B.Tech. with a second Degree in Engineering Science
(5) Proposed Intake for UG programs AY 2020 Semester I
(6) Proposal for New PG Programs and Intake to be started from AY 2020-21
(7) Joint Ph.D./ Joint Academic Programmes with Foreign/Other Universities
(8) Certificates courses and Diploma offered by IITJ
(9) Change in Thesis Submission Policy for Old Ph.D. student’s registered before
(10) Change in the attendance policy for batches undergoing transition plan
(11)Approval of Convocation date 17 December 2019
((12)Recommendation for the Award of Ph.D. Degree to 5 Ph.D. Students, 2 M.Sc.
Students and 2 M.Tech. Students
((13)  Proposal  for  Joint  Programme  for  Ph.D.  in  Medical  Technologies  and  Joint
programme  for  Masters  and  Ph.D.  in  Medical  Technologies  between  IIT
Jodhpur and AIIMS Jodhpur
((14) Intellectual Property Right (IPR) Policy of IIT Jodhpur
Further,  the  Chairman  shared  that  Degree  format  of  IIT  Jodhpur  required  to  be
changed from two-sided to one side format as per practice of older IITs. It would
further  reduce  the  time  consumed  on  taking  signatures  from  concerned.    The
Director  said  that  the  revised  norms  for  Degree  format  would  be  prepared  and
placed  before  the  Senate  and  recommendation  of  the  Senate  would  be  placed
before the BoG.
The  Director  further  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  Industries  demanding
for  Certificate/Diploma  courses  from  IITs  which  could  be  specific  in  the  tune  of
Industry  need  and  cater  the  requirement  of  the  Industries.  In  order  meet  the
requirements  of  the  Industries,  IIT  Jodhpur  planning  to  start  Certificate  courses
and Diploma course of 128 Credit.
The  Board  appreciated the  initiatives  and  desired  that  both  the  proposals  should
be placed before the Senate and then to the BoG for its approval.
To  consider  and  approve  proposed  panel  of  experts  for  conducting
Selection Committees for faculty in the proposed School of Management &
The  Director  presented the  item  and  apprised that  the  Board  of  Governors  in  its
21st  Meeting  held  on  22  October  2019  had  in  principle  approved  the  initiative
towards  exploring creation of School of Management and Entrepreneurship in IIT
Jodhpur. He further apprised that to start the process of setting up of the School
of  Management  and  Entrepreneurship,  Institute  needs  to  hold  Selection
Committee  for  the  recruitment  of  the  Faculty  Members  to  set  up  the  School
completely  and  the  Institute  prepared  a  panel  of  experts.  After  in-length
discussion,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  panel  for  conducting  Selection
the  School  of  Management  and
Entrepreneurship, as tabled during the Meeting.
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur