Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
11th February 2022 (Friday)
Board Room/Webex, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 28th Meeting
11th February 2022 (Friday), 11:00 A.M.
Board Room/ Webex, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present/ attended through Webex/issued comments:
Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to Govt. of India
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengineering
Sh.  P.C.  Makwana,  Director,  Directorate  of  Technical  Education,
Jodhpur, GoR, Nominee of Govt. of Rajasthan representative
Sh. Rakesh Ranjan, Additional Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education,   Member*
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admin.) & Offg. Registrar
*The Ministry of Education had issued the Comments on the Agenda vide letter No. F.No.12-9/2018-TS.1
dated 08.02.2022, and the same was considered in the Meeting.
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, Member, BoG, was granted leave of absence as he had intimated his inability to
attend the meeting due to pre-occupancy.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:
28.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
The  Chairman,  BoG,  welcomed  all  the  members  of  the  Board  of  Governors,
especially  Prof.  Mitali  Mukerji,  Professor  and  Head,  Department  of  Bioscience  &
Bioengineering,  IIT  Jodhpur,  who  was  attending  the  meeting  as  a  Member  for  the
first time in the capacity of Senate Nominee on the BoG.
Then,  the  Chairman,  BoG,  placed  on  record  the  appreciation  for  the  valuable
contribution  by  Prof.  S.R.  Vadera,  whose  tenure  as  Senate  nominee  on  the  BoG,
IIT  Jodhpur  was  ended  on  31.12.2021.  The  Chairman,  BoG  recalled  that  he  met
Prof.  Vadera  for  the  first  time  during  his  visit  to  the  Defence  Laboratory  Jodhpur
(DLJ) when Prof. Vadera was the Director of DLJ, and at that time, various engaging
research activities were undergoing at DLJ.
The Director stated that Prof. Vadera would continue to be Special Invitee on BoG in
the Capacity of the Deputy Director of the Institute.
Later, the Chairman, BoG called the meeting in order.
28.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes :
1.  To  Confirm  the  Minutes  of  11th  Special  meeting  of  the  Board  of
Governors held on 18 December 2021 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur.
2.  To  Confirm  the  Minutes  of  27th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of  Governors
held on  8 October 2021 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  confirmed  the  Minutes  of  the  11th  Special  and  27th  BoG  meetings,  as
28.1.2  Presentation  by  the  two  faculty  members  on  their  research  work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
As  per  the  decision  of  the  BoG  taken  in  its  24th  Meeting  held  on  5.12.2020,  the
following  two  Faculty  Members  of  the  Institute  made  presentation  before  the  BoG
about their research work:
1.  Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar
Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar, Associate Professor, Department of  Mathematics, presented
his research work and apprised the BoG that with the substantial proliferation in the
internet-connected  devices,  the  data  is  captured,  stored,  and  processed  in  large
volume  fetching  newer  critical  issues  in  the  context  of  security  of  the  data.  These
issues can be solved after understanding underlying aspects in detail. Dr. Bhatnagar
presented that the research work is an attempt to uncover different aspects of data
security. It essentially starts by defining different types of data that can be captured
and commonly used security threats.
Subsequently,  Dr.  Bhatnagar  presented  different  methodologies  of  data  security,
namely (1) Data Encryption, (2) Digital Watermarking, and (3) Data Fingerprinting,
which  are  the  optimal  solutions  to  ensure  security.The  Chairman,  BoG,  and
Members  requested  Dr.  Bhatnagar  to  explain  these  methodologies,  mainly  Digital
watermarking, Dr. Bhatnagar briefed the Board about the same.
Prof. Mitali Mukerji and Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Members, BoG requested Dr. Bhatnagar
to  explore  to  solve  the  problem  of  image  fudging  because  presently  there  is  no
technology available to effectively address this issue.
Later,  Dr.  Bhatnagar  and  BoG  discussed  an  encryption  approach  based  on  the
fractional transform along with the data security application in the IoT environment,
industrial surveillance, and privacy-preserving AI models.
The BoG appreciated the research work presented by Dr. Bhatnagar
2.  Dr. Prasenjit Sarkar
Dr. Prasenjit  Sarkar,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Chemical  Engineering,
presented his research work to make Kidney tissues in the Lab to save the lives of
end-stage  kidney  patients.  Dr.  Sarkar  apprised  the  members'  that  Kidneys  are
composed  of  approximately  one  million  subunits  known  as  nephrons.  The  major
function  of  the  nephrons  is  to  filter  the  blood  and  make  urine.  End-stage  kidney
disease  affects  151-232  people  per  million  population  in  India  annually.  These
patients  require  either  dialysis  or  kidney  transplantation,  of  which,  life  expectancy
on  kidney  transplantation  is  much  higher.  However,  there  is  a  severe  shortage  of
kidney donors for carrying out kidney transplantation. Therefore, there is a need to
make  kidney  tissue  in  the  lab.  Kidney  tissue  has  been  generated  in  the  lab  by
various  researchers.  However,  these  are  shown  to  be  not  suitable  for  therapeutic
purposes,  as  demonstrated  after  implantation  into  mice  kidneys.  To  address  this
challenge, we propose a new hypothesis for the process of nephron formation. The
new  hypothesis  entails  the  induction  of  one  pool  of  nephron  progenitor  cells  with
Wnt signaling, and a separate pool of nephron progenitor cells with Notch signaling.
These two pools of cells are hypothesized to interact and give rise to the nephron.
The  proposed  underlying  network  of  biochemical  reactions  was  presented.  It  was
noted  that  the  study  of  such  a  network  of  reactions  has  not  been  conducted
previously  for  this  system.  Further,  the  network  of  reactions  was  modeled  using
ordinary differential equations and stochastic  simulations were conducted using the
software  COPASI.  Results  of  the  simulation  were  presented.  To  validate  these
results,  experiments  need  to  be  conducted  on  nephron  progenitor  cells.  It  was
discussed  that  nephron  progenitor  cells  may  be  obtained  from  rat  embryos  to
conduct such experiments. The experimental design was briefly presented. The goal
of  the  experiments  will  be  to  validate  the  model  of  nephron  formation,  to  validate
the biochemical reaction network proposed, and to evaluate the kinetic parameters
in the biochemical reaction network.
The  Board  of  Governors  suggested  that  the  experiments  may  also  be  carried  out
using  human  cells  since  there  are  differences  in  gene  regulation  between  human
cells and rat cells.
The  Chairman,  BoG,  and  Members  appreciated  the  presentations  made  by
Dr. Bhatnagar and Dr. Sarkar
28.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The Director presented the Institute Report before the Board of Governors as below:
The Board of Governors was apprised that the number of Academic Programs of IIT
Jodhpur  reached  66  (+1  proposed)  from  21  Academic  Programs  in  AY  2018-19.
The Program-wise Student strength in AY 2021-22 of 3329.
The Board was also briefed that the faculty strength reached 213 compared to 129
in March 2020, including Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Visiting
Professor,  Professor  of  Practice,  Professor  on  deputation,  Young  Faculty  Associates
The  progress  of  R&D  Projects  was  also  apprised,  and  the  Director  briefed  the  FC
that the new R&D Projects and Grant is currently lower, but Institute will likely  get
more projects and grants during the end of this Financial Year.
The fund Analysis was also presented to the Board. The Director presented  existing
fund position under all three object heads viz. OH-31, OH-35 and OH-36.
New initiatives /activities at IIT Jodhpur
The Director briefed the BoG about new initiatives /activities as below:
1. Johari Digital Health Care Limited has set up and operationalized a lab on Digital
Med-Tech at Technology Park, IIT Jodhpur;
2. Rajasthan  Solar  Association  have  set  up  a  Center  of  Excellence  (CoE)  on
Renewable Energy Research; and
3. Rajasthan  Govt.  has  approved  the  investment  of  70  Crores  in  a  Section-8
Company as Joint Venture with JCKIF in the area of AIOT with IITJ as knowledge
and facility provider.
New initiatives Planned
The Director also briefed the BoG about new initiatives planned as below :
1.  4  Year  BS  Programmes  in  Physics  and  Chemistry  with  Engineering  oriented
specializations (integrated component)
  Option for BS-M.Tech. Dual Degree in 5 Years
2.  As per the National Education Policy (NEP), an initiative for a School of Liberal Arts
with  focus  on  multi-disciplinary  technology-enabled  academic  and  research
initiatives in human-centric disciplines
3.  Setting up a Center on Engineering Education focused on
  Pedagogy for Engineering Education
  Faculty training
The  Chairman  and  members  appreciated  the  Institute  Report  presented  by  the
28.2.1  Action Taken Report on previous decisions of the Board of Governors.
The Board of  Governors noted the Action Taken Report (ATR) on  various decisions
taken  by  the  Board  of  Governors  in  its  previous  meetings,  11th  Special  and  27th
Meeting held on 18 December 2021 & 8 October 2021 respectively. The BoG made
observations on the following:
24.3.11: To undertake scientific analysis of the bibliographic data of the
Institute on different parameters to improve the performance.
The Director apprised the BoG that the service provider has set up the Institutional
Repository platform. Profiles of Faculty Members of the Institute have already been
created in the Institutional Repository for its analysis. The Director also apprised the
Board that IIT Jodhpur has achieved a significant increase in H-Index from 33 to 50.
The  Director  also  apprised  that  the  detailed  report  on  scientific  analysis  of  the
bibliographic data of the Institute on different parameters will be placed before the
BoG in its next meeting.
The BoG noted the detailed action taken report.
28.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
28.3.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  24th  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee held on 10 February 2022 at IIT Jodhpur.
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  24th  meeting  of  the  Finance
Committee  was  held  on  10  February  2022  in  the  IIT  Jodhpur  and  then  presented
the recommendations of the Finance Committee before the BoG. The BoG approved
the  recommendations  of  the  24th  Meeting  of  the  Finance  Committee,  made
observations on the following items, and approved as under:
24.1.2: Proposal to revise Fee structure
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
“The Director apprised the Finance Committee that it is very difficult for the Institute
to meet the essential recurring cost owing to increased strength of Students, Faculty,
Staff  and  Institute  Infrastructure.  The  Director  expressed  his  deep  concern  over
shortfall arising due to reduction of recurring grant released by the MoE and to meet
essential recurring Cost.
The Director stated that  Institute has to take steps to reduce the shortfall arises due
to insufficient release of Grant-in-Aid by the MoE. He briefed the FC that the Institute
had reduced the Hostel and other fees by 25%  due to COVID-19. Now, the Institute
has to review its fee structure at par with other IITs to meet its essential requirement.
The  Director  further  requested  the  Finance  Committee  to  accord  its  in-principle
approval to increase the fees considering mainly following points:
1.  Power consumption charges for Hostel Rooms
2.  Dining Hall
3.  Additional Medical Expenditures to handle pandemic
4.  Expense for Student Activities
5.  Meeting changes in price index
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Finance  Committee  noted  the  need  of  the  Institute
and accord its in-principle approval to revise /increase its fee structure and suggested
to come back with detailed proposal in the Finance Committee in its next meeting.”
The Board approved the above recommendation of the Finance Committee.
24.1.4 Payment of HRA as per “Y” Class city to the employees.
The  BoG  noted  the  following  deliberations  of  the  24th  Finance  Committee  held  on
“The Finance Committee noted the present position of the matter and expressed that
the matter should be resolved by the Ministry of Education in light of recent gazette
notification by the Govt.  of  Rajasthan declaring the area  where IIT Jodhpur situated
under the Urban Agglomeration (UA) and other nearby Institutions are paying HRA as
per  “Y”  Class  city.  The  Finance  Committee  suggested  the  Institute  to  again  request
the MoE to resolve the matter.”
The Board noted the same and expressed that the MoE should consider the matter
in the light of Govt. of  Rajasthan’s Gazette Notification clearly stating the name  of
IIT  Jodhpur  under  Jodhpur  (UA).  The  BoG  suggested  requesting  the  MoE  again  to
resolve the matter.
24.1.4. Recruitment and Promotion Rules for non-faculty positions 2021
The  BoG  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
“The FC noted  that the recommendation of the Finance Committee was placed before
the Board of Governors in its 27th meeting held on 08 October 2021 for consideration
and  approval.  Further,  as  suggested  by  the  Ministry  of  Education,  the  Institute  had
sent  the  Recruitment  and  Promotion  Rules  2021  separately  to  the  Ministry  of
Education for approval. In response, the MoE had sought certain clarifications and the
para-wise  reply  has  been  sent  to  the  MoE  vide  letter  No.IITJ/O(E-II)/2021-22/522
dated 02.02.2022 for consideration.
After  discussion,  the  Finance  Committee  recommended  that  after  concurrence  of  the
Ministry  of  Education,  the  Institute  should  implement  Recruitment  and  Promotion
Rules. The Same was recommended to BoG for approval.”
24.2.2: To consider and approve:
(i)  Recommendations  of  the  26th  meeting  of  the  Building  &  Works  Committee
(B&WC) held on 25th  January 2022 at IIT Jodhpur.
(ii)  To  consider  the  recommendations  of  the  Special  meeting  of  the  Building  &
Works Committee (B&WC) held on 15 November 2021 at IIT Jodhpur.
The  BoG  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
“The Finance Committee endorsed the recommendations of 26th meeting of the Building
&  Works  Committee  (B&WC)  held  on  25th  January  2022  at  IIT  Jodhpur  and  Special
meeting of the Building & Works Committee (B&WC) held on 15 November 2021 at IIT
Jodhpur to the BOG for its approval.”
24.2.5 Payment of HRA to the CPWD
The  BoG  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
“The  Finance  Committee  recommended  to  make  the  payment  to  CPWD.  It  is  also
advised to send a communication to CPWD stating that this is the full and final payment
towards  outstanding  HRA.  Further,  a  acknowledgment  from  the  CPWD  has  to  be
obtained towards this payment.”
24.2.6 Adoption of Audited Annual Accounts for the financial year 2020-
The  BoG  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
“The Finance Committee recommended adoption of SAR and Audited Annual Accounts
for financial year 2020-21 to BOG  for its approval.”
24.2.7:  Government  of  Rajasthan  Extraordinary  Notification  dated
18.02.2021  towards  notifying  Jodhpur  Urban  Area  (U1)  under  Master
Development Plan (2013-2031) of Jodhpur.
The BoG noted the following recommendations of the Finance Committee:
“The Finance Committee noted the information and recommended to the BOG for
The  Board  noted  the  recommendations  of  the  Finance  Committee  but  suggested
requesting the MoE again to resolve the matter of HRA pending for very long.
24.3.3: Implementation of Vidhyalaxmi Scheme
The  BoG  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
“The Finance Committee noted the implementation of Vidhyalaxmi Scheme in the
28.3.2  To  consider  the  Finalization  of  Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)  for
Development of Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur.
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee  on  the  Finalization  of  Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)  of  Development
of Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur:
“The Director presented the item before the Finance Committee and apprised
that The Institute had sent proposal for sanction of additional funds of Rs.34.9
Crores  for  financial  closure  of  the  Project.  In  response,  the  Ministry  of
Education  vide  letter  F.No.12-13/2020-TS-I  dated  19.01.2022  directed  the
Institute to send the proposal duly scrutinized & recommended by the B&WC,
Finance  Committee  and  BoG  of  the  Institute  alongwith  “Project  Completion
Report” in the format shared by the MoE.
As per the direction of the MoE, the Project Completion report was presented
before the Building & Works Committee in its 26th meeting held on 25.01.2022
and  after  detailed  scrutiny,    the  B&WC  recommended  to  the  FC  and  BoG  as
“The  B&WC  was  apprised  that  the  Institute  had  sent  proposal  for
sanction  of  additional  funds  of  Rs.34.9  Crores  for  financial  closure  of
the Project. In response, the Ministry of Education vide letter F.No.12-
13/2020-TS-I  dated  19.01.2022  directed  the  Institute  to  send  the
proposal  duly  scrutinized  &  recommended  by  the  B&WC,  Finance
Committee  and  BoG  of  the  Institute  alongwith  format  for  “Project
Completion Report”.The B&WC was also apprised that setting up of IIT
Jodhpur has been accomplished as per revised DPR. Both, financial and
physical  targets,  as  mentioned  in  DPR,  have  already  been  achieved
with a total expense of 1155.88 crores (against 1121 crores) and built-
up  area  of  2,32,328  sqm.  (against  2,21,000  sqm.,  as  mentioned  in
DPR) respectively.  The  Institute thus requires  an additional amount of
Rs.34.9 Crores which is approximately 3% of total project cost to meet
the  additional  expenses.  As  per  the  direction  of  the  Ministry,  the
detailed  Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)  was  presented  before  the
B&WC Annexure-A. The B&WC scrutinized the final Project Completion
Report  (PCR)  for  “Development  of  Permanent  Campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur”
with detailed expenditure & area-wise asset generation statement, and
need  of  additional  amount  of  Rs.34.9  Crores  to  meet  the  additional
expenses.  After  scrutiny,  the  B&WC  recommended  the  proposal
to the Finance Committee and BoG for approval.”
It  was  also  briefed  to  the  FC  that  Institute  has  incurred  Rs.227.41  crore  on
equipment  and  Rs.  1155.34  crore  on  Construction.  The  Institute  is  not
demanding  any  additional  fund  under  equipment  head  but  additional  fund  of
Rs.  34.90  crore    is  essentially  required  for  formal  financial  closure  of  the
After detailed deliberation, the Finance  Committee  recommended that Project
Completion  Report  and  need  of  additional  amount  of  Rs.34.9  Crores  to  meet
the additional expenses to the BoG for its approval.”
The Board deliberated on the recommendations of the B&WC & Finance Committee.
The BoG noted that additional Rs.34.9 Crores required is approximately 3% of total
project cost and the variation within 10% of approved estimate. The BoG approved
the Project Completion Report and recommendations of the Finance Committee.
To consider and approve:
(i)  Recommendations  of  the  26th  meeting  of  the  Building  &  Works
Committee (B&WC) held on 25 January 2022 at IIT Jodhpur.
(ii)  To  consider  the  recommendations  of  the  Special  meeting  of  the
Building  &  Works  Committee  (B&WC)  held  on  15  November  2021  at
The  BoG  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
“The Finance Committee endorsed the recommendations of 26th meeting of the Building &
Works Committee (B&WC) held on 25th January 2022 at IIT Jodhpur and Special meeting
of the Building & Works Committee (B&WC) held on 15 November 2021 at IIT Jodhpur to
the BOG for its approval.”
To  consider  and  approve  the  proposal  of  additional  HEFA  loan  of  Rs.75
Crore for equipment.
The  Director  apprised  to  BoG  that  the  proposal  of  additional  HEFA  Loan  of  Rs.75
Crore  was  placed  before  the  Finance    Committee  in  its  24th  meeting  held  on
10.02.2022 and the FC recommended the following:
“The  Director  briefed  the  Finance  Committee  about  the  critical  requirement  of  the
Equipment  for  the  Institute  and  also  apprised  the  FC  that  the  Institute  has  sufficient
repaying  capacity to pay the Institute’s obligation of Rs. 1.875 crore (25% of 75 crore
repayable in 10  years) for the  proposed HEFA Loan of Rs.75 Crores after meeting its
present HEFA Loan obligation of Rs. 6.30 crores and for the HEFA Loan of Rs. 252 Crore
and  also  considering  the  future  obligation  of  Rs.  8.75  crore  for  the  HEFA  Loan  of
Rs.350 Crores for Phase-3A (Construction) already submitted to the MoE for approval.
The Finance Committee recommended the proposal of additional HEFA loan of Rs. 75
Crore for equipment to the BOG for its approval.”
After detailed deliberations, the Board approved the above recommendations of the
Finance Committee considering the need of the Institute.
28.3.5  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  28th meeting  of  the
Senate held on 17 December 2021 at IIT Jodhpur.
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  recommendations  of  the  Senate  and  approved
28.3.6  To  consider  and  approve  (i)  Adoption  of  Separate  Audit  Report  (SAR)  on
Annual  Accounts  of  the  Institute  for  the  Financial  Year  2020-21  and
(ii) Annual Report of the Institute for the FY 2020-21.
(i) Adoption of Separate Audit Report (SAR) on Annual Accounts of the
Institute for the Financial Year 2020-21
The  Board  noted  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee  on  the
adoption  of  SAR  on  Annual  Accounts  of  the  Institute  for  the  FY  2020-21  and  also
receipt of Hindi version of SAR and approved the same.
“The Finance Committee recommended adoption of SAR and Audited Annual Accounts
for financial year 2020-21 to BOG  for its approval.”
(ii) Annual Report of the Institute for the FY 2020-21.
The  Annual  Report  for  the  year  2020-21  (English  and  Hindi)  was  presented  before
the  Board  of  Governors  and  after  careful  review  of  the  Annual  Report;  the  BoG
approved the Annual Report and directed the Institute to send the Annual Accounts
and Annual Report for the FY 2020-21 to the Ministry of Education for laying on the
Table of the Parliament.
28.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
28.4.1  Report on the implementation of the National Education Policy 2020.
The Board noted the report on the implementation of the National Education Policy
2020 as presented in the Agenda.
The Director also apprised the BoG that as per the National Education Policy (NEP),
an  initiative  to  establish  a  School  of  Liberal  Arts  with  a  focus  on  multi-disciplinary
technology-enabled  academic  and  research  initiatives  in  human-centric  disciplines
has been initiated.
The  Chairman,  BoG  requested  the  Director  to  impart  training/mentorship  to  the
nearby Engineering Colleges as per the mandate of the NEP and decision of the  IIT
The Director briefed the BoG that the Institute has already taken such initiatives.
The  Chairman,  BoG,  suggested  forming  informal  groups  of  experts  and  Faculty
Members  to  have  discussions  with  the  regional  engineering  colleges  to  impart
training/mentorship  to  the  nearby  Engineering  Colleges  as  per  the  mandate  of  the
NEP  and  the  decision  of  the  IIT  Council.  The  Chairman,  BoG,  also  requested
Prof.  Akhil  Ranjan  Garg  and  Prof.  N.S.  Shekhawat,  Members,  BoG  to  guide  the
Prof.  Shekhawat  and  Prof.  Garg  agreed  to  guide  the  groups  towards  linkages  with
regional engineering colleges.
The  BoG  appreciated  the
implementation of NEP and expressed their satisfaction.
initiatives  taken  by  the  Institute  towards  the
28.4.2  Report on the status of filling up of backlog vacancies.
The status of the filling-up of backlog vacancies was presented before the BoG as
The current faculty strength is:
The BoG was also apprised that the Institute had floated Special Recruitment Drive
for SC /ST/OBC in Faculty Positions and extended offer as under:
Faculty Positions Offered:- 07 (SC:03 & OBC: 04)
Faculty Members Joined:- SC:01, ST:01 (under regular recruitment drive) & OBC:03
The BoG was also apprised that the Special Recruitment Drive for the following
departments are under process and the roster for faculty positions is under process:
2.  Electrical Engineering
3.  Humanities & Social Sciences
4.  Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
7.  Mechanical Engineering
No. of backlog vacancies
The BoG noted the same.
28.4.3  Report on Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and resigning from
The Board noted the report on the Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and
resigning from the Institute.
28.4.4  Adoption of Circulars of MoE and Government of India
The Board approved the adoption of OM circulated by the MoE.
28.4.5  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
from last Meeting of the BoG.
The Board noted the report on the R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty members
of the Institute and appreciated the efforts made by the Faculty Members.
Institutions/organizations/companies by the Institute.
The Board noted the report of the MoUs/Agreement(s) signed by the  Institute with
different Institutions/organizations/companies and appreciated the Institute.
28.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
28.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
Reports of Selection Committees of Faculty Members
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG for Selection of 24
Faculty Members, as presented in the Agenda.
(b)  Report of Standing Committee
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG,  on  the
appointment of 1 Visiting Professor and 1 Professor of Practice.
(C)  Approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  through  U.O.  Note  on
appointment /extension of appointment through Standing Committee
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG, as presented in the
(d)  Reports of Selection Committees of Staff Members
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG, as presented in the
(e)  Reports of Selection Committees of Staff Members (LDE 2021)
The Board ratified approval as presented in the Agenda.
Reports of Standing Committees
The Board ratified approval as presented in the Agenda.
(g)  Reports of Review Committee of Staff Members
The Board noted and approved the same.
Various approvals accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note.
The Board ratified various approvals accorded by the Chairman, BoG, through U.O.
Notes on behalf of the BoG, as presented in the Agenda.
28.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
28.6.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  panel  of  experts  for  the  Center  for  Emerging
Technologies for Sustainable Development (CETSD)
The Director apprised the Board that there is a need to appoint Faculty Members in
the  Center  for  Emerging  Technologies  for  Sustainable  Development  (CETSD)  to
scale  up  its  Academic  and  Research  activities  and  presented  a  proposed  panel  for
appointment of Faculty Members in the CETSD.
After detailed deliberations, the Board of Governors approved the panel of experts
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur