Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
28th June, 2023 (Wednesday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 33rd Meeting
28th June, 2023 (Wednesday), 11:00 A.M.
Board Room , IIT Jodhpur
The  following  Members  were  present  /  issued  comments  in  the  33rd  Meeting  of  the  Board  of
1.    Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to Govt. of India
2.    Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.    Ms. Saumya Gupta, Joint Secretary (TE)
Ministry of Education, GoI
4.    Prof. N.S. Shekhawat, Former Professor
5.    Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
6.    Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Head, Deptt. of BB, IITJ
7.    Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera
Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
8.    Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar
(Issued  Comments  vide  Letter  No.
F.No. 12-9/2018-TS-1 dt. 27-06-23)
Member (Through Webex)
Prof. Richa Singh, Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain and State Govt. Nominee could not attend the Meeting due to
other pressing commitments.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:
33.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS
The Chairman, BoG, warmly welcomed all Members of the Board of Governors and
stated that  the on previous day,  i.e., 27th June, 2023, the meeting of the Finance
Committee; IIT Jodhpur was held in the Board Room. Thereafter, he expressed his
happiness on the proceedings of the FC and critical recommendations made by the
Finance Committee during the Meeting. He appreciated the Registrar for preparing
the Minutes of the Finance Committee within very short period of time.
Then, the Chairman, BoG called the meeting in order.
33.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes of the 32nd Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 14th March, 2023 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The Board of Governors, confirmed the Minutes of the 32nd Meeting of the Board of
Governors, as circulated.
33.1.2  Presentation  by  the  two  faculty  members  on  their  research  work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
As  per  the  decision  of  the  BoG  taken  in  its  24th  Meeting  held  on  5.12.2020,  the
following two Faculty Members  of the  Institute made presentations before the BoG
about their research work:
1.  Dr. Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Associate Professor & Head, Department of Physics
presented  some  of  his  key  research  works  carried  out  in  the  domain  of
Theoretical High Energy Physics (HEP).  He explained how various sub-domains
in  HEP  can  help  in  revealing  deep  kept  secrets  of  the  Universe.  He  highlighted
his globally recognized works in flavor physics which enabled resolving some of
the open problems related to the recent anomalies in the beauty meson sector
which  emerged  from  several  experiments  at  CERN,  Geneva  and  Belle,
Japan.   Dr.  Alok  then  explained  how the  research  group  at  the  Department  of
Physics established  a  new
electroweak systems, at the international level. This domain lies at the interface
of  particle  physics  and  quantum  information.  Moreover,  he  also  mentioned
about  his  very  recent  research  works  where  a  connection  between  the  new
physics in the flavor sector and astro-particle physics were established through
neutrino-dark  matter  interactions.  Subsequently,  Dr.  Alok  explained  how  the
neutrino magnetic moment arising through quantum loop corrections can have a
severe impact on cosmic neutrino flux. These results are expected to have deep
implications  for  several  currently  running  as  well  as  proposed  neutrino
telescopes at different locations on the Earth.
research  domain,  Quantum  correlations
2.  Dr.  Pranay  Ranjan,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Metallurgical  and
Material  Engineering  presented his  research  work  on  Borophene,  at  the  IIT
Jodhpur Lab. The Industry-Academia Translational Research, he is working with
the  TATA  New  Material  Division  and  the  active  US  collaboration  research
accomplishment.  The  Chairman,  BoG  enquired  about  the  Lab-to-Fab  scalability
of Borophene. Dr. Ranjan apprised the BoG that the Lab-to-Fab work is going on
with the industrial partner TATA New Material Division.
Subsequently, Dr. Pranay presented some of his experimental results which are
related to RCS coating and the work on Borophene tubes with the University of
Buffalo,  USA.  The  tech  talk  delivered  by  Dr.  Pranay  in  the  ELCINA  was
briefed and  the  probable  outcomes  were  discussed.  The  Chairman,  BoG
appreciated  the  research  achievements  in  Borophene  at  IIT  Jodhpur  lab  and
industry-academia  as  well  as  US  collaboration  related  to
The Board of Governors suggested to Dr. Pranay Ranjan to collaborate with the
Industry Partner/ Institutions through the Institute and explore the possibility of
capitalization  of  R&D  Work.  The  Chairman,  BoG  also  suggested  Dr.  Ranjan  to
take suggestions from the Director, IIT Jodhpur and Dy. Director, IIT Jodhpur to
formulate / finalize Agreement / MoU with Industry Partner(s) to gain a win-win
The BoG appreciated the presentations along with their R&D contributions made by
both the Faculty Members.
33.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The  Director  presented  the  Institute  Report  before  the  Board  of  Governors  as
1.  The  Institute  is  offering  86  Academic  Programs  including  the  following  New  Academic
Programs starting from AY 2023-24:
•  M.S. by Research in 7 different areas
•  MBA program in FinTech and Cyber Security
•  M.DeS. in XR / Immersive Media
•  M.Tech. in Quantum Technologies
•  M.Sc.-M.Tech. in Chemistry and Materials Engineering
•  Ph.D. in Centre for Education & Technology for Education
•  M.Tech.-Ph.D. in Intelligent VLSI Systems
2.  The existing student strength is 4058 and the projected strength of Students would be
approximately 5000+ in the AY 2023-24;
3.  The present Faculty strength is  243  and 11 faculty  positions have  been  offered as on
23 June 2023;
4.  Non-faculty strength have been increased from 125 to 167 as on 23 June 2023 and 70
positions have also been offered;
5.  Financial  parameters  such  as,  Budget  Sanction  by  the  Ministry  of  Education  (MoE)  for
F.Y. 2022-23, Fund Received, and Actual expenditure 2022-23 were also apprised. The
Director  further  informed  about  the  Budget  Sanction  issued  by  the  MoE  for  F.Y.
2023-24  and  release  against  the  Budget  with  comparison  to  the  Actual  expenditure
during the F.Y. 2023-24; and
6.  The progress made in the Research & Development (R&D) projects was also reported.
The  Director  further  informed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  on  the  behest  of  the
Ministry  of  Education,  Govt.  of  India,  the  Institute  has  taken  several  initiatives
towards  adopting  PPP  Model  for  various  Infrastructure  creation  in  the  Institute.
These  have  been  deliberated  in  the  Finance  Committee  held  on  previous  day
(27th  June,  2023)  and  will  be  discussed  under  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance
The  Chairman,  BoG,  and  members  appreciated  the  Institute  Report  presented  by
the  Director  for  the  continuous  growth  of  the  Institute  through  his  determined
efforts and noted the same.
33.2.1  Action Taken Report on previous decisions of the Board of Governors
Dr.  Hari  Om  Yadav,  Registrar  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  as  per  the
decision of the  BoG and after  withdrawal of the Arbitration Case by the JNVU,   IIT
Jodhpur has made the payment of Rs. 2,49,82,420/- after deducting applicable GST
Prof.  N.S.  Shekhawat,  Member,  BoG  appreciated  the  efforts  made  by  the
IIT Jodhpur to settle the matter amicably.
the  JNVU  on  7th  June,  2023  and  settled
The Board of Governors noted the Action Taken Report (ATR).
33.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
33.3.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  29th  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee held on 27th June, 2023 at IIT Jodhpur
The  recommendations  of  the  Finance  Committee  made  in  its  29th  meeting  held  on
27th  June,  2023  were  presented  before  the  BoG.  The  BoG  approved  the
recommendations  of  the  29th  Meeting  of  the  Finance  Committee    and  made
observations on the following items, and approved as under:
29.1.4: Implementation of House Building Advance (HBA) at IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 29th Meeting held on 27th June, 2023:
“The Director briefed the Finance Committee that on the recommendation of the Finance
Committee made in its 28th Meeting held on 13th March 2023, the Board of Governors in its
32nd  Meeting  held  on  14th  March,  2023  constituted  the  Committee  to  deliberate  on
operational  aspects  for  implementation  of  House  Building  Advance  (HBA)  scheme  at  IIT
Jodhpur.  The  Committee  met  on  23rd  May,  2023  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Sh.  Ashoke
Guha,  Member,  Finance  Committee  and  framed  the  operational  guidelines  for
implementation  of  HBA.  The  Committee  recommended  to  create  an  initial  Corpus  of
Rs. 7.50 crores (Rupees Seven and half Crores) from Institute’s own funds/resources.
Based  on  the  inputs  provided  by  the  Director  on  the  financial  constraint,  the  Finance
Committee  recommended  creating  an  initial  Corpus  of  Rs.  5.0  Crores  instead  of  Rs.  7.5
Crores  to  implement  the  HBA.  The  Finance  Committee  also  suggested  that  the  Institute
should follow other recommendations of the Committee for its implementation.”
29.2.1:  Annual Accounts for Financial Year 2022-23
The Board noted the following recommendation of the Finance Committee made in
its 29th Meeting held on 27th June, 2023 on the Annual Accounts for FY 2022-23:
“The  Finance  Committee  discussed  the  Annual  Accounts  for  the  F.  Y.  2022-23  of  the
Institute  at  length  and  noted  the  comments  received  from  IFD,  Division,  Ministry  of
Education  and  Technical  Section-1,  Department  of  Higher  Education,  Ministry  of
Education on the Annual Accounts.
The Finance Committee suggested to analyze changes in expenditure and to co-relate the
same with the progress of the Institute in terms of strength of students, employees, and
infrastructure  development.  The  FC  appreciated  the  significant  increase  in  strength  of
students from the previous year to the current year.
The  FC  indicated  to  have  proper  planning  for  funds  lying  idle  and  explore  various
investment options (like Large funds for short term investment) which will provide better
returns  as  well  as  liquidity  to  meet  any  contingent  requirement.  The  FC  opined  that
instruments  which  do  not  have  time  commitment  and  low  risk  may  be  considered  for
The Director apprised that the Institute has Investment Committee and all the suggestions
given  by  the  FC  will  be  deliberated  in  the  Committee  to  formulate  future  investment
Thereafter, the Finance Committee recommended the Annual Accounts for the F. Y. 2022-
23 to the Board of Governors for approval.”
The  Board  suggested  taking  necessary  action  as  suggested  by  the  Finance
Committee and approved the Annual Accounts for FY 2022-23.
29.2.3: To consider and approve:
(i)  Minor  modification  in  Rationalization  of  366  sanctioned  non-teaching
positions considering the need of the Institute.
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 29th Meeting held on 27th June, 2023:
“The  Director  briefed  the  Finance  Committee  about  the  proposal  of  minor  modification  in
Rationalization of 366 sanctioned non-teaching positions considering the need of the Institute
and to be able to continue the Recruitment process in the Mission Mode as mandated by the
MoE and Hon’ble PMO.
The  FC  also  noted  the  comments  received  from  the  Ministry  of  Education  that  the
Rationalization includes two processes (i) Abolition of non-required posts and (ii) Creation of
required posts needs approval of the Ministry of Finance.
The Director apprised about the Rationalization of existing 366 Non-teaching positions which
do not require abolition or creation of posts. The proposal is to fill the vacant positions to meet
the targets of Recruitment under Mission Mode.
After detailed deliberation, the Finance Committee recommended the proposal to the Board of
Governors for its approval.”
(ii)  Rationalization  of  447  sanctioned  non-teaching  positions  considering
the need of the Institute
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee made in its 29th Meeting held on 27th June, 2023:
“The Finance Committee discussed and recommended to the BoG that the Institute may write
to the Ministry of Education to sanction the Faculty and Non-Faculty positions as the approved
ratio of MoE to enable the Institute to continue the Recruitment drive in Mission Mode.”
29.2.4: To consider the proposal to take Institutional Membership of INAE
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee
made in its 29th Meeting held on 27th June, 2023.
29.4.1: PPP Model
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee
made in its 29th Meeting held on 27th June, 2023.
Installation  of  Solar  PV-CSP  Unit  at  IIT  Jodhpur  -The  Director  briefed  the  Finance
Committee  that  IIT  Jodhpur  is  considering  the  installation  of  Solar  PV-CSP  Unit  at  IIT
Jodhpur. He informed briefed that the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy (MNRE), Govt.
of  India  had  installed  1.0  MW  Solar  Thermal  CSP  (Concentrated  Solar  Power)  at  NISE,
Gurugram,  Haryana  and  later  the  Unit  became  dysfunctional  for  various  reasons.  At  the
instance of MNRE, IIT Jodhpur shown interest to relocate the unit and operationalize at IIT
Jodhpur for R&D, Technology / Courseware Development.
The  Director  later  presented  to  the  Finance  Committee  that  a  Private  Unit  -  M/s.  LUIT
Renewable  Solutions  Pvt.  Ltd.,  having  the  expertise  in  the  domain  of  CSP  expressed
intention  to  fund  the  entire  expenses  in  the  transport  of  the  dis-assembled  parts  and
reinstalling  the  CSP  facility  at  IIT  Jodhpur.  In  return,  M/s.  LUIT  expects  collaborative
Technology  Development  and  Technology  Transfer  from
IIT  Jodhpur  for  possible
commercialization. An affidavit to that effect was submitted by LUIT to IIT Jodhpur which
formed the part of LOI submitted by IIT Jodhpur to MNRE.
Modalities of the CSP Operation at IIT Jodhpur
Post  installation,  CSP  Unit  shall  be  the  asset  of  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  Industry  and  other
R&D units can access the unit for specified usage.
  M/s. LUIT shall seek residency at the IIT Jodhpur Technology Park and access the unit
for R&D in collaboration with IIT Jodhpur in the Project Mode.
IP’s generated in the collaborative activities shall be jointly owned and both parties
shall  reserve  the  first  right  of  refusal
in  matters  of  License,  transfer  and
commercialization of Knowledge /IP.
The Finance Committee appreciated the initiative and recommended the same to the
Board of Governors for approval.
Knowledge Alliance for Digital Health
The  Director  briefed  the  Finance  Committee  that  IIT  Jodhpur  considering  to  form  the
Knowledge Alliance for Digital Health with the Industry Partner, M/s. Libra Social Research
Foundation (LSRF) – Not for profit organization, with the following Scope:
Capacity Building Programmes
  Research and Innovation
Consultancy and Outreach
Responsibility of Libra Social Research Foundation:
LSRF will  support  IITJ in  fundraising activities for the Alliance (Grants, Government
for  Physical  and  Research
programmes,  Donors,  Multilateral  Banks,  etc.)
infrastructure of the Alliance;
LSRF  will  provide  /  support  to  visiting  Faculty,  Researchers,  and
Professionals  to  be  engaged  with  the  Alliance  for  its  Academic  Programmes,
Capacity building initiatives and research and innovation programs; and
LSRF  will  make  support  available  for  Start-ups,  Technology  Translation  and
Technology Commercialization in the Alliance.
Any  income  (excluding  GST)  of  the  Alliance  accrued  through  Industrial  projects  of
Technology  commercialization  in  from  equity  of  the  Start-ups  or  from  the  professional
training  programs  will  be  ploughed  back  for  meeting  CAPEX  &  OPEX  Cost  of  the  Alliance
except 10% overhead of the income to IITJ and LSRF each, for meeting recurring research
The  Director  further  apprised  FC  that  the  Knowledge  Alliance  for  Digital  Health  will
facilitate  Robotic  based  treatments,  Tele-medicines,  Remote  Consultation,  AI  based
Applications  of  various  health  services,  research  and  innovation  in  the  field  of  Digital
The  Chairman,  FC  asked  whether  the  AIIMS  Jodhpur  will  also  be  the  partner  in  the
Knowledge  Alliance.  The  Director  apprised  that  AIIMS  Jodhpur  may  join  the  Alliance  at
certain point of time.
The  Finance  Committee  appreciated  the  proposal  and  recommended  it  the  Board  of
Governors for approval.”
33.3.2  To  Consider  the  recommendations  of  the  30th  Meeting  of  the  Building  &
Works Committee (B&WC) held on 10th June,2023
The  Board  of  Governors  was  apprised  that  the  recommendations  of  the  30th
meeting  of  the  Building  &  Works  Committee  held  on  10th  June,  2023  were  placed
before the Finance Committee in its 29th meeting held on 27th June, 2023.
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee and accorded AA&ES as per below:
“The  Finance  Committee  recommended  the  Administrative  Approval  &  Expenditure  Sanction
(AA&ES)  amounting  to  Rs.  14.81  Crores  through  Grant-in-Aid  /  IRG  towards  Construction  of
(Classroom  Block)  Lecture  Hall  Building  (G+1)  with  3  Nos.  Classroom  of  Capacity  150  each
including allied services at IIT Jodhpur to the BoG for approval.
The Finance Committee also considered and recommended the other recommendations of the
B&WC to the Board of Governors for approval.”
33.3.3  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  34th  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on 24th June, 2023 at IIT Jodhpur
The Director briefed about the major recommendations of the Senate to the BoG as
Organization of 9th Convocation of the Institute
The Director apprised the BoG that the Senate in its 34th Meeting held on 24th June,
2023  recommended  organizing  9th  Convocation  of  the  Institute  either  on
18th  OR  19th  November,  2023  and  authorized  the  Chairman,  Senate  (Director,  IIT
Jodhpur) to identify the Chief Guest and Guest of Honor for the event, preferably an
eminent woman personality.
Proposal to frame the Student Innovation Policy
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  to  encourage  the  active
participation  of  the  Students  in  Innovation  activities  and  allow  students  to  take  up
an  active  role  in  pre-incubation  and  incubation  activities  while  pursuing  their
Academic  Programs.  An  Innovation  Policy  for  the  students  was  framed  and  placed
before  the  Senate.  After  the  detailed  discussion,  the  Senate  approved  the  Student
The Director further informed the BoG that the Policy would enable the Students to
be  Entrepreneurs  while  being  Students  and  provide  them  with  better  Career
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated
recommendations of the Senate.
initiatives  and  approved
performance evaluation against  MoU  parameters  signed  with  the  Ministry
of Education by the IIT Jodhpur for 2022-23
The Report on the performance evaluation against MoU parameters signed with the
Ministry of Education by the IIT Jodhpur for the FY 2022-23 was placed before the
Board  of  Governors.  The  Board  of  Governors  had  detailed  deliberations  on  the
parameters  against  the  target  set  by  the  Institute  and  the  scores  achieved.  The
Board noted that the Institute scored 115.8 points against 130 which is 89%.
The BoG appreciated the efforts of the Institute to attain such a good score.
To consider and approve the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding
between the Institute and the Ministry of Education for 2023-24.
The  Director  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Ministry  of  Education,
Government  of  India  had  enforced  a  new  financial  policy  of  the  Government  in
which  the  release  of  grants  to  the  Institute  is  linked  with  the  signing  of  a
Memorandum  of  Understanding  (MoU)  between  the  Institute  and  the  MoE  every
financial  year  with  the  direction  that  no  Clause  of  the  draft  MoU  be  changed  or
The  Director  apprised  the  BoG  that  IIT  Jodhpur  is  proposing  to  implement
post-  based  Reservation  Roster  for  the  vacant  Faculty  Positions  w.e.f.  1st  August,
2023 after approval of the BoG as the separate Agenda Item on Reservation Roster
for Faculty Positions is placed in the Agenda under Item No.33.3.9.
The BoG noted the submission made by the Director and deliberated the matter  at
length  also  in  light  of  the  direction  of  MoE  that  No  clause  of  MoU  be  changed  or
After detailed deliberation on the matter, the  BoG  suggested that a clarifying Note
as below may be placed under the Clause C (Xiii) and MoU should be signed by the
Institute as mandated by the MoE:
“(xiii) The Institute to ensure that the reservation in prescribed percentage
is followed as per the CEI (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006 for students
and as per the CEIs (Reservation in Teachers Cadre) Act for faculties.  Also,
the  GoI  guidelines  are  followed  in  recruitment  of  non-teaching  posts.  The
Institute shall ensure equal opportunities and necessary facilities to persons
with disabilities in admission and services as per the law.”
Thereafter,  the  BoG  approved  the  signing  of  MoU  with  MoE  and  to  incorporate  the
change(s), if any, on receipt of draft MoU from the Ministry of Education.
33.3.6  To apprise the recommendations of the 55th Meeting of the Council of IITs
held on 18th April, 2023 at IIT Bhubaneswar
The Director apprised the various recommendations of the IIT Council made
in its 55th Meeting held on 18th April, 2023 at IIT Bhubaneswar to the Board
of Governors as below:
National Education Policy-2020
The Director apprised to the Board of Governors that five working Groups presented
their recommendations before the IIT  Council, and it was decided that the Reports
of  Working  Groups  on  “Evolve  a  structural  system  for  training  and  mentorship  of
new faculty at IITs” and “Innovative funding mechanisms” may be implemented by
The Director also briefed the BoG that as per the directions of the MoE, IIT Jodhpur
has  included  a  dedicated  reporting  item  on  implementation  of  NEP-2020  at  IIT
Jodhpur in every BoG Meeting.
Proposal for organizing R&D fair of IITs
The  Director  apprised  to  the  BoG  that  the  IIT  Council  appreciated  the  R&D  Fair  of
IITs,  in  which  75+  Projects  from  the  IIT  Ecosystem  and  6  Theme  Projects  across
diverse  theme  were  demonstrated,  and  IIT  Council  recommended  organizing  such
fair annually and it should become globally recognizable event.
Accreditation of IITs
The Director apprised to the BoG that under the guidance of Dr. K. Radhakrishnan,
an  exercise  for  evolving  a  simple,  transparent,  trust-based,  objective    and
rationalized system for approval, Accreditation and Ranking of HEIs is going on and
a detailed presentation before the IIT Council was made.
The  Council  recommended  that  an  Action  Plan  may  be  formulated  by  December,
2023 by IIT Gandhinagar and it was in-principle agreed that IITs would also become
part of the proposed accreditation process.
PPP  Model  for  constructing  and  operating  Hostels  and  residential
accommodation in IITs.
The Director apprised to the BoG that as per the suggestions of the IIT Council and
Ministry  of  Education,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  already  started  taking  action  in  that
Mental Health and Wellness
The Director apprised to the BoG that IIT Council emphasized to put in Institutional
Mechanism  to  deal  with  serious  issue  of  Mental  Health  and  Wellness,  especially  of
Students. It was mentioned to the BoG that IIT Jodhpur has robust system to deal
with such issues.
Supporting International Students for the internship program at IITs
The Director informed that the proposal for Short-term and Medium-term internship
programs at IITs for International Students was also discussed in the Meeting of the
Council of IITs.  The IIT Council was of the view that proposal may be worked out
for  incorporation  in  the  “Study  in  India”  Programme  and  a  detailed  financial
repercussion  may  be  formulated  for  next  5  years  and  send  to  the  Ministry  of
Education for Administrative and Financial Sanction.
Vision of IITs for the next 25 Years
The Director further apprised the BoG that in view of changing Global Scenario and
the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s Vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat as a developed Nation
by  2047,  IITs  were  asked  to  formulate  a  strategy  for  a  Vision  for  IITs@2047  in
Amrit Kaal, alongwith focusing on Short-term goals.
The  IIT  Council  recommended  that  each  IIT  shall  prepare  a  Vision  Document  and
also develop a Short-term Strategy Paper. After this, an Overall Vision Document of
IITs shall be framed within 1 year and a short term strategy paper within 3 months,
spearheaded by IIT Delhi.
The Director briefed the BoG that IIT Jodhpur has a Vision and Strategy Document
for  2021-2025  (5  Years)  duly  approved  by  the  Board  of  Governors  in  its  25th
Meeting  held  on  31st  March,  2021  and  now  IIT  Jodhpur  shall  start  to  prepare  a
Vision for IIT Jodhpur@2047.
Prime Minister Research Fellowship (PMRF)
The Director apprised to the BoG that the IIT Council in-principle agreed for taking
up PMRF Phase -2  for 5 Years with 5000 Scholars (1000 Per Year).
Sports Quota in IITs
It  was  apprised  to  the  BoG  that  the  proposal  for  introduction  of  Sports
Supernumerary  Quota  in  IITs  was  discussed  in  the  IIT  Council  Meeting.  The  IIT
Council  recommended  that  detailed  implementation  modalities  and  timelines  for
Academic Session 2024-25 may be prepared in consultation with JAB.
Proposal to provide HTRA for a period of 6 Years for female Ph.D. Scholars.
The  Director  informed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  proposal  to  provide  Half
Time  Teaching  Assistantship  (HTRA)  to  female  Ph.D.  Students  for  one  additional
year (6 Years in total).
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  proposal  and  requested  the  Director  to
implement the scheme  at IIT  Jodhpur. The Director proposed that  IIT Jodhpur can
support  the  additional  financial  implication  on  implementation  of  the  scheme
through Internal Resources.
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  proposal  with  a  suggestion  to  formulate  the
To  Start  4  Year  B.Ed  Programme  in  IITs-  4  Year  Integrated  Teacher
Education Programme (ITEP)
It was also apprised to the BoG that IIT Council discussed the proposal that IITs can
be one of the torchbearers for bringing quality upgradation in teachers and consider
to start 4 Year B.Ed. Program.
The Director informed the Board of Governors that IIT Jodhpur has already  applied
for recognition through the Online Recognition and Monitoring System of NCTE. The
Director further submitted to the BoG that today there is a huge shortage of quality
science  teachers  for  11th  and  12th  Classes  across  the  Country  and  IIT  Jodhpur  is
thinking  of  starting  B.Ed.  Program  with  a  aim  to  provide  skillful  quality  science
teachers for 11th and 12th Class, if permitted by the NCTE and Ministry of Education,
National Credit Framework
The Director briefed the BoG that  IIT Council also passed a resolution to adopt the
National  Credit  Framework  by  the  IIT  Council,  so  that  the  Institute  can  thereafter
evolve  their  own  modalities  as  per  approval  of  the  respective  Senate  of  the
Institutes within the overall framework.
The Board of Governors appreciated the Director for a detailed presentation on the
recommendations  of  the  IIT  Council  and  suggested  taking  appropriate  steps
towards implementation of the recommendations wherever applicable.
To  consider  and  approve  the  reports  of  the  Selection  Committees
conducted  for  the  post  of  Professor  and  Associate  Professor  for  different
Departments /Centers / Schools of the Institute
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Institute  has  recently
conducted  Selection  Committees  for  the  posts  of  Professor,  Associate  Professor,
Assistant  Professor  and  appointments  through  Standing  Committees  for  different
Departments /Centers / Schools / Division of the Institute.
The  outcome  of  the  Selection  Committees  was  presented  before  the  Board  of
The Board of Governors approved the appointments.
To  consider  and  approve  placing  the  Staff  Members  from  Contract  to
Probation to maintain uniformity in terms & conditions of services of all the
Staff Members as per the Recruitment & Promotion Rules-2021 (RPR-2021)
The Board of Governors approved the proposal  to maintain uniformity in the terms
& conditions of services of all the Staff Members and placed the Staff Members from
Contract  to  Probation  w.e.f.  their  date  of  joining  as  per  the  provisions  of
Recruitment & Promotion Rules-2021.
To  discuss  the  preparation  of  the  Reservation  Roster  for  Faculty  Positions
at IIT Jodhpur
The Director briefed the Board of Governors that  similar to other IITs, IIT Jodhpur
is  also  facing  difficulty  implementing  CEIs  (Reservation  in  Teachers  Cadre)  Act,
2019.  However,  the  Institute  has  continuously  been  putting  efforts  to  maintain
diversity  with  respect  to  the  reserved  categories  including  floating  Special
Recruitment Drive for faculty positions.
The Director also informed the BoG that the Ministry of Education vide Letter F.No.
32-20/2019-TS-I  (Part)-Part  (1)  dated  19th  June,  2023  stated  that  the  MoE  has
observed that IITs are facing difficulties in the preparation of reservation roster for
Faculty  positions.  The  MoE  has  advised  to  work  out  the  possible  pattern  of  the
Reservation Roster. Accordingly, as per the suggestion of the MoE, IIT Jodhpur has
had  several  consultations  and  as  the  outcome  of  the  discussions,  IIT  Jodhpur  has
worked out to implement Reservation Roster for Faculty Positions.
After detailed deliberations, the Board of Governors approved the implementation of
the Reservation Roster for Faculty positions as per the modalities w.e.f. 1st August,
33.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
33.4.1  Report on the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020
The Board noted the report on the implementation of the National Education Policy-
2020  as  presented  in  the  Agenda  and  appreciated  the  initiatives  taken  by  the
Institute towards the implementation of the NEP-2020.
33.4.2  Report on the status of filling up Backlog vacancies
The  Board  noted  the  report  on  the  status  of  the  filling-up  of  backlog  vacancies  as
presented in the Agenda and appreciated the efforts made by the Institute towards
filling up vacancies.
33.4.3  Report  on  Faculty  Members  and  Staff  Members  joining  and  resigning  from
The BoG noted the report.
33.4.4  Adoption of Circulars of Ministry of Education, Government of India
The Board approved the adoption of the O.Ms. as presented in the Agenda.
33.4.5  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
since the last meeting of the BoG
The Board noted the  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of
the Institute since the last meeting of the BoG.
33.4.6  Report  of  MoUs/Agreement(s)  signed  with  different  Institutions  /
organizations / companies by the Institute
The Board noted the Report of MoUs/Agreement(s) signed with different Institutions
/ Organizations / Companies by the Institute.
33.4.7  To  report  approval  accorded  by  the  Director  on  Scrutiny  Criteria  for  the
post of Superintendent
The Board noted and approved.
33.4.8  Replacing the old Car with new vehicle for the official use of the Director as
per the approval of the Board of Governors
The Registrar briefed to the BoG that the Board of Governors in its 2nd Meeting held
on 28th August, 2010 approved to purchase  of vehicle for the Director to carry out
official duties. On approval of the BoG, a Car (Toyota Innova RJ-19-UA-7250 Model
of  Year 2011) was purchased  on 8th August, 2011  and since then the Director,  IIT
Jodhpur  has  regularly  been  using  the  car  for  Official  purposes.  The  Vehicle  was
purchased  around  13  years  ago  and  completed  225000  Kms.  so  far.  The  vehicle
continuously  requires  frequent  Repair  &  Maintenance  and  not  functioning  properly.
Further, it’s an old model which does not have even minimum safety features.
Therefore, the Institute has started the process to replace the car with new one for
the Official use of the Director.
The  BoG  noted  the  requirement  of  Vehicle  for  the  Director  and  suggested  to  the
Institute to replace the old Car with new one having proper  safety features for the
Director, IIT Jodhpur for Official purpose.
33.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
33.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
Reports of Selection Committees of Faculty Members
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG as presented in the
(b)  Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note on extension /
appointment through Standing Committee
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG, as presented in the
Reports of Selection Committees of Staff Members
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  /  Director  as
presented in the Agenda.
33.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
33.6.1  Tenure of Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Before  taking  up  this  Agenda  point,  Prof.  S.R.  Vadera,  Deputy  Director  &  Special
Invitee, BoG recused himself from the discussion.
Thereafter, the Director briefed the BoG that in terms of Section-18 of the Institutes
of  Technology  Act,  1961  read  with  Statute  13  of  IIT  Jodhpur  and  on  the
recommendation  of  the  duly  constituted  Selection  Committee,  the  Board  of
Governors  in  its  26th  Meeting  held  on  1st  July,  2021  approved  the  appointment  of
Prof.  S.R.  Vadera,  Professor,  Department  of  Physics,  IIT  Jodhpur  as  Deputy
Director,  IIT  Jodhpur  for  a  period  of  2  years  on  Contract  basis.  The  term  of  the
Deputy Director is 2 years which can be extended for another 1 year. Prof. Vadera
assumed the charge of the Deputy Director on 2nd July, 2021 (FN) and his term gets
completed on 1st July, 2023.
The Director informed the BoG that the Institute has benefitted by his Academic and
Administration  contributions  made  during  the  last  2  years  as  the  Deputy  Director
and  proposed  to  extend  his  term  for  1  year  w.e.f.  2nd  July,  2023  as  the  Deputy
Director of the Institute.
After detailed deliberations, the Board approved the extension of term of Prof. S. R.
Vadera  as  the  Deputy  Director,  IIT  Jodhpur  for  1  Year  w.e.f.  2nd  July,  2023  to
1st July, 2024.
33.6.3  To consider and approve addition to the existing panel of experts of various
domains for selection of Non-Faculty positions.
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  Panel  of  Experts  for  the  selection  of  Non-
Faculty positions in addition to the existing panel.
The  Chairman  and  the  Members  of  the  BoG  highly  appreciated  Dr.  Hari  Om  Yadav,  Registrar
and  his  colleagues  Shri  Neeraj  Kumar,  Junior  Superintendent  and  Shri  Lalit  Mohan,  Junior
Assistant for their untiring efforts, sincerity, dedication, and efficiency for timely preparation of
all  the  documents  related  to  Board  of  Governors  meeting  and  smooth  conduct  of  the
proceedings of BoG in a highly professional manner.
The Chairman and the Members of the BoG also expressed their deep sense of appreciation for
Shri Darsh Kumar Khatwani, Superintendent and Shri Shyam Sunder Singh, Junior Assistant of
the Office of Faculty Recruitment for their extremely hard work, sincerity, dedication and deep
sense  of  responsibility  to  help  in  conducting  mission  mode  recruitment  of  faculty  members.
The  team  has  gone  beyond  their  comfort  zone  to  help  institute  in  the  recruitment  of  Faculty
Members for all the major Departments of the Institute in a timely manner.
The  Chairman  and  the  Members  of  the  BoG  conveyed  their  special  appreciation  for  the  team
consisting  of  Dr.  Hari  Om  Yadav,  Registrar,  Shri  P.G.  Basak  (Adviser  Administration),
Shri  Prashant  Bhardwaj,  Assistant  Registrar,  Shri  Laxman  Singh,  Assistant  Registrar  and
Shri  Robin  Kaintura,  Junior  Assistant.  The  team  has  been  working  relentlessly  with  zeal  and
enthusiasm  for  the  past  several  months  to  carry  out  a  challenging  task  of  recruitment  of
technical  and  administrative  staff  members  in  a  mission  mode.  The  conduct  of  these
recruitment involved huge tasks of conducting both written examinations and skill tests, most
of which have been conducted on weekends.
Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar & Secretary, BoG profusely thanked Hon’ble Chairman, BoG and
respected  Members  for  their  wonderful  gesture  in  appreciating  his  colleagues  of  different
offices for their dedicated efforts and dogged determination in completing many of the official
assignments well within the time with full sincerity. He expressed his gratitude and added that
this  was  all  possible  under  the  dynamic  and  able  leadership  of  the  Respected  Prof.  Santanu
Chaudhury, Director,  IIT Jodhpur.  He also thanked Prof. S.R. Vadera, Deputy Director  for his
The Meeting concluded with the thanks to the Chair and the Members of the BoG.
Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur