te of echn 10 y J
Mi.nutes of 27th Meeting
09 Nov'~rnber 2021 (Tuesday)
03,,)00 pm onwards
Board Room and WebEx, lIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank intentionally.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Minutes of 27th Meeting
09 November 2021 (Tuesday) at 03:00 pm
Board Room and WebEx, lIT Jodhpur
IDRP and IRC IDRP
Santanu Chaudhury, Director,
S.R.Vadera, Professor, Deputy Director
H. P. Khincha, Chairman, Karnataka State Innovation Council, Bangalore
Sanjeev Misra, Director, AIIMS, Jodhpur
Purnima Singh, Deptt. of Humanities & Social Sciences,
Souvik Bhattacharyya, Vice Chancellor, BITS Pilani
Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R & D)
C. Venkatesan, Professor-Ia-charqe
B.P. Kashyap, Professor and Head, MT
Arun Kumar Singh, Head, EE
KJ. George, Head, HSS
Puneet Sharma, Head, Mathematics
Manikandan Pranjothy, Head CCV)
Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Head (PH)
Mitali Mukerki, Head, BB
Richa Singh, Professor & Head (CS)
Neeraj Jain, Head (AIDE)
Krishna Kumar Balaraman, Head (SME) & Head, CTFP
Pradip K. Tewari, Head (Chemical Engineering)
S.C. Bose, Head,
Sushmita Jha, DRC, Chairperson, BB, Coordinator, MMT Programme
Gaurav Bhatnagar, DRC, Chairman, MA & FIC (ARP)
Mayank Vatsa, Professor & DRC Chairman (CSE)
Ajay Agarwal, Professor, EE
Manoj Choudhary, Professor, EE
Mayurakshi Chaudhuri, DRC, Chairman, HSS
Deepak Arora, DRC, Chairman, Chemical Engineering
Rakesh Kumar Sharma, DRC, Chairman, CY
Debanjan Guha Roy, DRC, Chairman, CIE
Satyajit Sahu, DRC, Chairman, Physics
Mahesh Kumar, DRC, Chairman, EE
Anand K. Plappally, DRC, Chairman, ME and Head (CETST)
Sankalp Pratap, DRC, SME
Shree Prakash Tiwari, Associate Dean (R&D)
Somnath Ghosh, Associate Dean (Academics-PG Program)
Suril V. Shah, Associate Dean (Academics-UG Programs)
Samanwita Pal, Associate Dean (Student Affairs)
Deepak Kumar M. Fulwani, Associate Dean (PRG)
Amitava Mitra, Professor
Kaushal A. Desai, Associate Dean (International Relations & Outreach)
Shankar Manoharan, Faculty-in-charge
Gaurav Harit, Faculty-in-charge
General Secretary, Student Senate
General Secretary, ACAC
P.G. Basak, Advisor
& Officiating Registrar
The following members could not attend the Meeting
Jitendra Balakrishnan, CTO-Products, Sterlite Technologies
Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, Head, ME
Ranju Mohan, Head (CIE)
Joydeep Dutta, AIDE
Ravi K R, DRC, Chairman, MT
Indranil Banerjee Associate Dean (Hostel Affairs)
Apoorv Pal, Vice President, Board of Academic Interaction
The following are the outcomes of the Senate Meeting:
Part A: Open Door Meeting
the Members to the 27th Meeting of
The Chairman welcomed all
the institute is planning to organize the 7th
The Chairman informed that
Convocation Tentatively during
15-17 December 2021. The Hon'ble
Minister of Education has been contacted requesting his presence in the
convocation. On this occasion, it is also planned to inaugurate the campus
formally. The event will be held in hybrid mode and some students may be
invited for the convocation depending on the COVID-19 situation. Other
than Hon'ble Minister, another guest-of-honour will be invited to deliver an
address. Preferably, a leader
from the industry will be invited for
panel of guests have been proposed for
occasion. The following
consideration in addition to any new names in this direction:
1. Nivruti Rai, Intel India Country Head
2. Arundhati Bhattacharya, Former Chairperson, State Bank of India.
3. Manish Gupta, Director of Google Research India
4. Babasaheb Neelkanth Kalyani, Chairman and Managing Director,
5. S N Subrahmanyan, Managing Director of Larsen & Toubro
6. Vanitha Narayanan, Managing Director, IBM-Verizon relationship.
7. Debjani Ghosh, President, NASSCOM
8. Kota Harinarayana, Chairman, Board of Governors of lIT BHU
9. T. V. Narendran, Managing Director, Tata Steel
10. Sudha Murty, Chairperson, Infosys Foundation
The Chairman also appraised the Senate regarding the action points for
IITs in context of NEP2020. He has also elaborated the initiatives taken by
lIT Jodhpur in compliance of the action points.
Confirmation of Minutes of the 26th Meeting of the Senate held on
17 July 2021
The Senate confirmed the Minutes of
the 26th Meeting of the Senate, as
Report on Action Taken on decisions of the 26th Meeting of the
Senate held on 17 July 2021
is presented below on action taken by the Institute
decisions of the Senate made at its 26th Meeting of the Senate held on 17
Exception to First year UG students for branch
Issuance of the Class or Division Certificate
26.2.3 Revision of
curricula of M.Tech.
in CSE, AI,
curriculum based on Audit of the programmes
from Centre of Excellence (CaE) on Implemented
Mathematical and Computational Economics,
Intelligence & Data Science
School of Artificial
for a Minor area in Mathematical and
Computational Economics for UG students
Elective courses proposed by the Department
26.2.6 Courses for Comprehensive Examinations for
registered M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students -
and School of Management &
the programmes 3. Proposal
IIT Jodhpur-AIIMS Jodhpur Joint Programs in Implemented
Masters, Masters-PhD Dual Degree and PhD in
Eligibility criteria for admission
the minimum performance requirements
continuation of fellowship/assistantship
the Academic Year
26.2.8 Revision in Minor in management and minor in Implemented
for UG students
26.2.9 Revised academic credit requirements for Ph.D Implemented
students in Management and Entrepreneurship
and Course Outlines
Degree Certificate Award of B.Tech., M.Sc.,
M.Tech., and Ph.D. Degrees to students, who
meet the requirements
List of Ph.D. students who completed seven
26.4.1 Academic Calendar for Academic Year 2021-22
To approve -
in principle - a proposal of
on Augmented and
for offering a post-graduate diploma
in Data Engineering and Machine Learning in
partnership with Wiley
B.Tech. Students joined in 2019 would be eligible for minor/specialisation
from AY 2021-22 Semester
five-year dual degree (MTech/MBA) in a minor/specialisation
in view the following is proposed:
these students can also pursue a
in Eligibility Criteria
opting, Minimum Credit
requirements, Credit requirements.
2) Semester wise structure of specialization/minor
and dual degree, and
details of specialization, dual degree and semester wise structure for
Departments Schools and IDRP.
The above was presented in the Meetings of the Academic Committee in its
37th and 38th Academic Committee Meeting held on 20 October 2021 and 2
November 2021 respectively. The Academic Committee considered and
recommended the same to the Senate for its consideration.
The Senate deliberated in detail and approved the amendments in Eligibility
for opting and the structure
Annexure-l. The senate also suggested that
IDRP on Smart Healthcare
and SME can plan for specialization in Smart Health Care leading to dual
degree in MMT, and Minor in Entrepreneurship leading to Dual Degree in
The Senate has also suggested that
placed to the Chairman Senate. All the used cases are to be documented.
the process has to be well defined and
the exceptions have to be recorded and
should be there. All
Academic Plan for UG 1st Year
Senate approved the following:
is presented to the Senate. After detail deliberations
• The academic year for UG 1st year will be divided into two semesters.
I from 6 Dec 2021 to 7 March 2022 and Semester
21 March 2022 to 20 June 2022
i? Each semester will have weekly three lectures of 60 minutes each in
place of 50 minutes each for a three-credit course. Therefore,
will be a total of 36 lectures (in place of 42) and 60 working days of
classes (in place of 70), excluding examinations.
e A course will have a 60% continuous evaluation and 40% major
examination [Online final exam 20-30% Marks + 10-20% of Marks
based on an examination
in-group/project work, special quizzes,
e Semester I will run in online mode, whereas Semester
II will run in
blended mode. Course distribution for both semesters is given in the
UG 1st Year Courses
MIE/MT/C GC NG
• English I
• Physics I
• Chemistry I
• Mathematics I
• Introduction to
• Mathematics I
4 Mar 22]
• Engineering Design I
• Communication Skill I
• Performing Arts
• Social Connect I
Short Break [5 Mar2022 - 20 Mar 2022]
• English II
• Physics II
• Chemistry II
• Mathematics II
• Introduction to
• Introduction to
• Mathematics II
• Physics Lab
• Chemistry Lab
• Engineering Design II
• Communication Skill
• Performing Arts
• Social Connect
1. CS: Computer Science & Engineering
2. EE: Electrical Engineering
3. ME: Mechanical Engineering
4. BB: Bioengineering
5. MT: Materials Engineering
6. CH: Chemical Engineering
7. CI: Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
8. AI: Artificial
9. NG: Non Graded Credit;
10. GC: Graded Credits
Intelligence and Data Science
The Senate also discussed on the Academic Calender for the 1st year BTech
students for Semester- I & II, placed at Annexure 2.
The Senate deliberated the above agenda item in detail and approved the
academic plan for UG 1st year.
Branch Change for B.Tech. in X +Engineering Science post 2nd year
The Senate deliberated on the proposal and approved the following:
1. an undergraduate
student opted for B.Tech.
is eligible to apply for branch change at
in X +Engineering
Science post 2nd year
end of the fourth semester:
2. Secured a CGPA, at the end of the fourth semester, of:
a. Greater than or equal to 7.0 for SC/ST and PD applicants
b. Greater than or equal to 8.0 for other applicants
3. Completed all prescribed course credits for the first
including the non-graded courses (exception, X grade in non-graded
4. No backlog at the end of the fourth semester.
5. The student should have no disciplinary action against him/her.
6. Change of the branch will be permitted strictly in the order of merit
as determined by CGPA at
the fourth semester. Each
the end of
available seat may be occupied by students of any category. For
students of the SC/ST/PD category, concession in eligibility criteria is
given as per rule (a).
In case more than one student applying for branch change have the
same CGPA, the tie shall be resolved on the basis of JEE ranks of such
In making a change of branch,
fall below 95% of
105% of the present strength.
the strength of a branch should not
the present strength and should not go above
9. The conditions mentioned in item (a) above will not be insisted upon
for change to a branch in which a vacancy exists with reference to the
sanctioned strengths, and the concerned student was eligible as per
..JEE Rank for admission to that branch at
the time of entry to IIT
10. Notwithstanding any of the conditions listed above, a student with a
CGPA of 9 or more at the end of the fourth semester will be allowed
to move to a branch of his/her choice.
Honorary degree of Doctor -Honorls Causa, lIT Jodhpur
The following proposal has been presented to the Senate:
In accordance with the in-principle approval by the Board of Governors to
the most distinguished honour honorary degree of
bestow on an individual
Doctor Honoris Causa abbreviated as Dr.h.c.)
to significant personalities
the following guidelines have been proposed
with exceptional contributions,
A member of the Senate has the right to submit a proposal for the award of
the honorary degree of Doctor Honoris Causa at his/her own discretion or
the Deans/Associate Deans after
discussion with the
Chairman, Senate. The Chairman, Senate may constitute a subcommittee to
examine the nominations and recommend suitable names to the Senate. In
the resolution should be passed by majority to finalize the
the nominees. However, the conferment of honorary degree of
Doctor Honoris Causa may not necessarily be an annual feature. Nomination
should not be made in favour of a deceased person.
The honorary degree of Doctor Honoris Causa may be awarded
to a reputable personality of exceptional contributions to knowledge,
industry, society, arts, sports and IIT jodhpur
Causa shall include pertinent and documented facts,
the award of the honorary degree of Doctor Honoris
a) his/her personal particulars;
b) assessment of the value of the nominee's activities/contributions
point of view;
The honorary degree of Doctor Honoris Causa shall, will be awarded
1. On the occasion of convocation of the institute and in person or in
2. The awardee may be invited to deliver an address during the
3. Each conferment
shall be accompanied by a citation (/scroll of
honour). The format of the citation should be in accordance with
the citation should highlight outstanding
in the field for which the honour is being conferred.
The sub-committee of the Senate may be entrusted in drafting the
citation for the approval of the Chairman, Senate.
and the personality
the text of
After detailed discussions the Senate approved the proposal.
for offering a Post Graduate Diploma in Data Engineering
and Cloud Computing - School of Artificial
Intelligence &. Data
The detailed concept note shared by the School of Artificial
Data Science (AIDE) on post-graduate diploma in Data Engineering and
Cloud Computing was presented. The Senate approved the proposal placed
Proposal to Offer 800 level Meta Institutional Courses to facilitate
of some elective courses in online/hybrid mode,
for access by a student from any liT on credit transfer basis
In the 54th meeting of
February, 2021 the Council noted and accepted the proposal
was also suggested that
the BoG of
mechanism in consultation with their Senate.
the Council of
IITs held on Monday,
lIT may devise the detailed
lIT Jodhpur will open/offer
a few very specialized
It is proposed that
electives of 800 levels as accessible to the takers from other
provide a transcript
for eligible students. Hence we are proposing to
introduce the 800 level pre-doctoral and advanced M.Tech. level courses at
IITs to register for
lIT Jodhpur. This will enable the students from different
the courses of their specific interest. When credit
is made possible,
students can take it as part of their degree programme in addition to taking
It will not only increase the choice to the students but
it as an audit course.
also in some cases avoid duplication of such specialized courses being
offered at the same time. The faculty colleagues can also venture into a new
course and making
collaborations of research and projects.
a new subject
the short offset
This will of course require some coordination in terms of time table, opening
transfer. The institutes are
and closing dates of semesters, and credit
required to accept
when the offset
is tolerable and permits result declaration. While some
common time slots can be declared by the lIT's to facilitate offering of such
courses. The courses may be offered in online/hybrid modes. Such courses
can be extended to people from industry also and they may be encouraged
to do so.
in timing or at
on the proposal and approved the same for
The Senate deliberated
the slots as well
It was suggested that as per the proposal,
as timing can be fixed across the IITs to offer such courses. The credits
lIT can be accepted by IITJ
earned in a pre-doctoral
provided the similar course is not being offered by IITJ and on the approval
of SRC of the student.
course in another
Course outlines of already approved courses, and new elective
courses by School of Management
Department of Chemistry respectively
The Senate deliberated in detail
to provide appropriate suggestions in the
courses and approved the proposal with suggested changes for course
outlines of elective courses for School of Management & Entrepreneurship
and Department of Chemistry placed at Annexure- 4 &. 5 respectively.
Procedure to issue duplicate degree certificates/specialization
The Senate admitted the proposal and decided that
the institute should
move towards the technology solution through the NSDL or any other
platform. The duplicate degree is to be issued online to the graduated
students in lieu of the damaged/lost/stolen original degree.
Recommendations to confer the Award of B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech.,
and Ph.D. Degrees and B.Tech. Specialization to students, who
meet the various academic requirements
of award of B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech. and Ph.D.
by the Associate Dean (UG-Programme) and
students was presented
It was informed that based on the
Associate Dean (PG-Programmes).
various academic requirements for the award of B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech. and
students met all
Ph.D.degrees in respective disciplines,
academic requirements for he award of the said degrees:
(1) 176 students registered in the B.Tech.(CSE), B.Tech.(ME), B.Tech.(EE),
and B.Tech.(BISS) Programs;
(2) 67 students registered in the M.Sc.(CY), M.Sc.(MA) and M.Sc.(PH)
(3) 130 students
M.Tech.(BB), M.Tech.(CPS), M.Tech.(CS), M.Tech.(DCS) M.Tech.(MT),
M.Tech.(SIoT), and M.Tech.(TFE) Programs; and
registered in the M.Tech.
(4) 21 students registered in the Ph.D. Program.
(5) 59 students
Entrepreneurship, Management, Engineering Innovation, VLSI, Design,
and Thermofluids Engineering,
registered for specialization in Artificial
whereas the below-mentioned
requirements including thesis defense except final submission of the thesis,
have completed all academic
(6) 5 students registered in the M.Tech.(AMD), M.Tech. (TFE) Programs;
The complete list of the said 394 students, 59 B.TEch students for the
award of specialization is placed at Annexure-6.
The Senate discussed in detail and approved the following;
1. NAmes of said 394 students to the Board of Governors for the award
of the B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech. and Ph.D. Degrees.
2. Names of 59 B.Tech. students have met
award of specialization
Innovation, VLSI, Design, and Thermofluids Engineering.
certificate registered for specialization in
Entrepreneurship, Management, Engineering
the requirements of
3. For any other outstanding cases of Ph.D students who have met the
the Chairman Senate may be authorized to
the degrees subjected to
approve the names for
completion of defense by date 6 December 2021.
the award of
Report on action to be taken for Ph.D. students who completed
the program for students
There were 11 Ph.D. students who have completed seven years/more than
seven years/completing seven years in July 2021 (one student submitted his
Thesis in September 2021) since there were no regulations regarding tenure
registered before 2019 the matter was
discussed in the 26th Senate Meeting held on 17 July 2021. A special
committee was constituted dated 23rd September, 2021 as suggested by
the Senate in its 26th meeting on 17 July 2021 to evaluate the status of
thesis, ongoing research activities and viability to complete the PhD thesis ~
for students who have completed seven or more years.
The Senate has gone through the report submitted by the committee. After
the Senate approved in-principle to terminate the
students and extend the submission for two years after
the programme. The above extension period is final and no further
In case the required students can be given the
extension will be granted.
support of the professional counsellor. There will be no financial support
two years and also the accommodation
the students during this additional
will not be provided.
the students have to intimated that "You
The Senate has suggested that
have exceeded seven years in Ph.D. and hence your
registration is being
terminated. Based on this extraordinary scenario, you are given a special
chance to re-register
for completion of the programme within 2 years after
re-registration." They have to pay the registration fees for the programme.
The Senate has also empowered the Chairman, Senate to take decisions on
any special request from these students during this implementation process.
Degree names for MTech and MBA programmes
The name of the following programmes for issuance of the degree has been
prested and the Senate approved the same:
1. Master of Technology in Artificial
2. Master of Technology in Cyber Physical Systems
3. Master of Technology in Sensors and Internet of Things
4. Master of Technology in Advanced Manufacturing and Design
5. Master of Technology in Data and Computational Sciences
6. Master of Technology in Thermofluids Engineering
7. Master of Business Administration
8. Master of Business Administration - Technology
Reporting, Adopting and Noting Items
Approval of Convocation date 14-16 December 2021 for 7th
Convocation of the Institute for the year 2021
The Senate approved the date of convocation either on 15/16/17 December
Courses for Comprehensive Examinations for registered
M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students - Department of Civil and
As per clause 26.5.1 of
regarding "Comprehensive Examination
the regulations for students
from July 2019
• The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general
capability of the student and the breadth of his/her knowledge in the
discipline and areas related to the field of research.
e The Comprehensive
Comprehensive Examination Committee of the DepartmentjIDRP.
The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with
5 Papers for
comprehensive examination. Each paper will have broad coverage of
one essential sub-area of
the department. The course content of
these papers will be approved by the academic committee and the
the comprehensive examination
Senate. The syllabus of papers for
it must be
will not be the same as courses offered by the department;
designed to test the breadth of the knowledge in that area.
e The SRC will specify a set of
three papers as a comprehensive
for a particular student. These three papers may be
selected from across the departments.
e The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to
the Ph.D. student within two weeks of SRC formation.
e A student
e All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days
in a year. It can coincide with the annual progress evaluation day of
doctoral candidates. Students may decide to appear for three papers
on the same day or on different days.
he/she has completed the course requirements and satisfied the
minimum specified CGPArequirement.
in a comprehensive
is not satisfactory, he/she will
examination paper in the first attempt
be given one more opportunity to appear within six months of the
in the comprehensive examination
the Ph.D. student
G For clearing the comprehensive examination, a student must perform
satisfactorily in all papers."
The Courses for Comprehensive Examinations for registered M.Tech.-Ph.D.
and Ph.D. students - Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
was presented in 26th Senate and Senate decided the following:
the entire scope of research areas of the department/school has to be
reflected on the comprehensive papers. The details of possible areas
are to be explored and frame the comprehensive examinations
accordingly. The broad areas should be reflected. The broad-based
papers have to be available so that
the students have the option to
choose among them.
e The Senate suggested revising the proposed courses and adding new
If required, selected courses can be approved by
the Chairman Senate. The chairman senate is authorized to review
and take final decisions on the matter. The details are to be
incorporated in the next Senate meeting as reporting items.
The courses for comprehensive examinations were prepared by the
Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering. The Senate deliberated
and approved the same, placed at Annexure-1.
a. Nomination of Student representatives for Senate of the
b. Two nominees of Senate (Faculty nominated by Senate) for
the Councils - Student Activity Council (SAC) and Academic
and Co-curricular Activity Council (ACAC)
The Senate discussed on the student
of the Institute and approved as under:
representatives nominated for Senate
1. General Secretary, Student Senate
2. General Secretary, ACAC
3. Vice President, Board of Academic Interaction
4. PG representative, Board of Academics interaction as nominated
5. Girl representative, Board of Academics interaction as nominated I"
As per the Constitution of Student Councils (chapter
nominate Two nominees (Faculty nominated by Senate)
Student Activity Council
decision on the matter.
II & VI), Senate is to i'"
for the Councils -
(SAC) and Academic and Co-curricular Activity
(ACAC). The Senate authorised Chairman Senate to take the final
Approvals accorded by Chairman, Senate
M.Tech admission under CFTI category- Department of CI
List of Shortlisted & waitlisted candidates for admission to M.Tech.
(Full-time Regular eligible assistantship fellowship and Self
List of shortlisted and waitlist candidates for Admission to Ph.D.
Conversion M.Tech to M.Tech-Ph.D. Metallurgical and Materials
Provisionally admitted candidates for M.Tech in Advance
Manufacturing and Design under the categories
List of shortlisted and waitlist candidates for admission to
M.Tech-Ph.D dual Degree (Bioscience and Bioengineering) Program
Shortlisted candidates for admission to M.Tech (DCS) program for
List of candidates selected for admission to M.Sc.-M.Tech. (Physics)
Deferring the Ph.D admission under the category Part-time online-
Arun Kumar Jindal admitted in AY 2021-22
Shortlisted application for Executive M.Tech. program (CPS)
Provisionally admitted candidates for M.Tech Thermofluids under
the category of Full time regular without
regular self-sponsored, Part time online and Full time regular with
List of candidates selected for admission to M.Sc. (Physics)
Proposal of M.Tech. Executive (DCS) program for Cognizant
for the AY 2021-22
for spot round admission for M.Sc/M.Sc-M.Tech programs
for giving direct offers to the missed out candidates (4
GEN) in M.Tech (IEEE) program under the category Full time
regular eligible for Assistantship/Fellowship
Admission to Executive M.Tech. Artificial
Professionals for January 2022
Intelligence for Working
Revised curriculum of M.Tech. (DCS) program
Request changes corrections in the course curriculum for Regular
components for the course Geoinformatics
for correction in curriculum for missing lab
Change Admission Category
Change of admission category from full time regular without
Assistantship fellowship category to self sponsored category-Ms.
Change of admission category form full time sponsored category to
full time regular without Assistantship Fellowship category-Ms.
Change registration from M.Tech. to M.Tech-PhD -Mr. Chander Veer
Change registration from M.Tech. to M.Tech-PhD-Ms. Jayashree Roy
Branch Change for B.Tech Program
Branch Change of B.Tech. students for AY 2021-22
Engineering Science Options and Branch Change
Allocation of Roll Number for Branch Change
Allow students with X grade for branch change
Issuance of Provisional Certificate
Issuance of the Provisional Certificate to M.Tech. students who have
completed their academic requirements
Request to issue provisional certificate Aniket Monde and Gaurav
Request to issue Provisional Certificate Abhra Paul
Issuance of the Provisional Certificate to the students who have
completed their academic requirements in Summer Term 2020-21
Format for issuance to the provisional certificate to the students
registered in the new M.Tech programs started from 2019
Time table for AY 2021-22 Semester-I of the Medical Technologies
Regarding MBA-Technology & MBA Semester 3rd Examination (Term
5 and Term 6 from 18-24 & Dec 27-31 respectively) and grade
submission by mid Jan 2022
Schedule of I and E to D Grade Examinations
Institute Profile for Josaa AY 2021-22
Executive M.Tech in Cyber Physical System and Data &.
Starting Executive M.Tech programme in Cyber Physical System in
Dept. of EE and Data and Computational Sciences in School of AIDE
Transfer of Executive M.Tech. in Cyber Physical System to Executive
M.Tech in Data and Computational Science during AY 2021-22
Academic Calendar for Executive M.Tech. in Cyber Physical System
and Data Computational Sciences of Academic Year 2021-22 Sem.-I
Grades submission timeline for summer term 2021
E to D Conversion and I Grades of Academic Year 2020-21
Request for Change of Grade of Mr. Rajat Raj (M20ME060)
Grade of M.Sc./M.Tech/M.Tech-PhD./M.Sc-M.Tech. Project for
for A.Y. 2020-21
Grades Approval for Summer Term AY 2020-21, MSN7040 and
grades of two AlE students
Regarding Research Proposal Grade for PhD Students
Students selected for Engineering Science Options
list of students
in Engineering Science Options-2
list of students in Engineering Science Options-1
Detailed guidelines for Engineering Science option for B.Tech
students joined post July 2020
Detailed guidelines for Design credits
Regarding extension for Submission of Thesis work without
2021-22 Semester-I Mr. Alnkar Agarwal
Regarding extension for completion of qualifier
the beginning of the sixth semester by 31 December 2021
Extension of registration
academic Year 2021-22-Ridhi Aggarwal
and exemption of registration
Selection of Students for Prime Minister's Research Fellowship
(PMRF) under December 2020 Cycle
Constitution of Committees
Constitution of the committee for appointment
Vice President of Boards under ACAC-2
of office bearers for
Constitution of the committee for appointment
Vice-President of Boards under ACAC-1
of office bearers for
Constitution of Special
PhD. students who have completed seven years and more than
Level Committee for evaluation of
Constitution of time table committee
M.Tech Assistantship Fellowship to Pallavi Dradhomar(M20ME062)
Fellowship for M.Sc-M.Tech students entering
M.Tech Assistantship Fellowship to Sarath 5 Lal (M.20ME065)
to Naresh Nagai (M20ME014)
Request for transfer of UGC fellowship from lIT]
from PhD Program-Ms. Monika (P19CSEOOS)
to NIT Srinagar
Request of credit transfer, NOC for transfer from IITJ to Manipal
University and transfer of UGC fellowship to Manipal University- MR.
Neelankit Gautam Goswami P20BB007
Physical Verification of documents
Regarding physical verification of the documents of PG and UG
students for 2020 and 2021 batches
Extra Slot System for M.Tech. Executive Programmes for Academic
Year 2021-22 (Semester-I)
Academic Forms for M.Sc. in Digital Humanities (IDRP)
Academic Forms for Medical Technologies Program
Full time to Part time Conversion
Request for conversion of full time Ph.D. into Part-Time Mr. Aditya
Termination of Jitan Dey (P18HSS001) from Ph.D program
Approval of Additional slots for executive M.Tech in AI (core and
Extra credit for course completion
Regarding one more credit for program completion-Lokendra Mohan
Splitting of course
Splitting of course Introduction to Bioengineering (BBL1010)
Grievance received from Mr. Vishal Verma (B14BS016) though MoE
SME Ph.D valid scores
PhD candidates on valid GREand GATEscores
Registration/ Academic Calendar/Grades
Request received from Mr. Harim Thakur (MT19AIE239) to add
course CSL7340: NLP Feb-Jun-2020 due to drop course mistakenly
in the Revised Academic Calendar AY 2021-22
Regarding Suspend of Blended Mode Class on 27-28 September
2021 due to visit of Hon'ble Vice President
under KARYA program DST Govt of Rajasthan
Cancellation of Academic leave-Mr. Shivam Roy (M20PH037)
Homi Bhabha National
for Broad Areas of Collaboration - MoU between lITJ and
Accreditation of M.Tech Degree
of M.Tech. Degree to Mr. Rakesh Kumar
registered as the M.Tech-PhD Dual degree student under Design
Completion of Preparatory Course Programme at IIT Jodhpur during
academic Year 2020-21
Vice-Presidents of Boards under Academic Co-Curricular
Selection of Vice-Presidents
Co-Curricular Activity Council
of Boards under Academic
Matters related to PhD students
Sheeba Malik (P17CY002)
for cancellation of Financial Support of Rs. 13463-Ms.
to include Dr. Sudipto Mukhopadhyay
Chandra for the SRC of Mr. Alankar Agarwal P14BS001)
in place of Dr. Laltu
Stop MoE fellowship of Muskan Dosi (P21CS009) and appointment
in DRDO Project No. S/DRDO/MAV/20210011
3rd Semester onwards
of PhD in Medical Technologies students from
to issue stipend to Mr. Idury Satya Krishna for September
candidature of PhD 2020 Batch of SME
for Supervisor & SRC formation and revised timelines for
Changes in M.Tech SloT Qrogram
End Term Assignment
for Course in Foundations of Digital
Revised structure of Mathematics
courses for M.Tech BB students
the courses as Qrogram elective to fulfil Credit
for B.Tech. Program
the courses as Qrogram electives to fulfill
for M.Tech AI and CS grogram
Addition of Program Erective courses in the AQQroved list
for the CS
Addition of extra courses as grogram elective for the MTech TFE
Revision of reguirements
Minutes of Meeting
Minutes of Meeting between AIIMS JodhQur and IIT JodhQur for
Joint Program on Medical Technologies held on 4th August 2021,
36th Academic committee meeting
18th ECS minutes
19th ECS minutes
Minutes of meeting with all Heads on 26th Jul~ 2021 regarding
Minutes of SQecial meeting of ECS
37th Academics Committee meeting
38th Academic Committee meeting
The Senate ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman senate
Any other Item with the prior permission of the Chairman
Effective implementation of
the National Education Policy (NEP)
The Senate deliberated
on the points communicated
'fnaE flie Senafe'\iVili apply mind and depth for preparation
by th NoE vide letter
) and decided
of the document.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDAITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
(1) Proposed Amendments in credits requirements, Eligibility
requirements (Highlighted in boldface font)
for' opting, Minimum Credit
Section 4.1.2, Table 4.4:
Any students who have completed 85 graded credits can take 700 Level
Section 11.2.1 Eligibility Criteria for opting
to 6.0 at
the end of
the 5th semester to opt
should have earned a minimum of 85 graded credits with the
(a) Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization
CGPA more than or equal
(b) B.Tech. + M.Tech./MBA Dual Degree in the chosen specialisation
from the eighth semester provided
graded Credits with at
sRecial case, a student may be allowed to opt
they have earned a minimum of 130
the 7th semester. As a
for a dual degree bY' the end of
for a dual-degree Programme
least 6 CGPA at
6 CGPA and
the end of
Section 11.2.2 Minimum Credit requirements
is required to opt
Interdisciplinary Specialization and
(a) Major/Department Specialization,
A student needs to complete a total of 20 Credits in the Major/Department
Credits out of 20 will be taken up as a part of Open electives, whereas the
10 credits in the form of course
overload. This will be indicated in the degree.
Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor
credits with CGPA more than or equal
courses for their degree.
students who have earned 85 graded
to 6.0 are permitted to take up to 4
load, which forms part of her/his
in addition to the prescribed
for Additional Courses for Major/Department Specialization,
as part of
from the sixth semester,
for an additional
needs to complete
(b) B.Tech. + M.Tech./MBA Dual Degree in the chosen specialisation
a total of 54 graded and 2 non-graded
Credits in the Minor, Department,
area offered towards
M.Tech. and 58 graded and 11 non-graded Credits towards MBA. It will
include credits earned for Major/Department
part of M.Tech.1MBA Programme will be counted towards programme
done in Semester VI and Semester VII
electives. Students will be required to complete all core courses
except for preparatory and bridge courses. Students will be required
to take additional credit of Programme Elective against preparatory
Section 11.3, Table 11.2 Credit
specialization dual degree is given in Table below.
for specialization and
Table 11.2: Course Categories
pecia iza Ion ea mg 0
1 Institute Core (I)
Programme Core (P)
4 Open (0)
6 M.Tech./MBA (M)
(Major /M inor /Dept./
Programme Electives (PE)
Open Electives (MO)
(NO) [MBA winter
Non-graded Dual Degree
Total Graded + Non-Graded
done through minor/specialization
counted toward M.Tech/MBA core/elective.
Rerer dual degree structure for details of core and elective requirements.
durinq Semester VI and VII Will be
include any project course.
It must not
2) Proposed semester wise structure of specialization/minor
and details of specialization,
semester wise structure for departments Schools and IDRP as
dual degree and
The following semester wise structure will be followed for minor specialisation.
Students will be required to take 10 credits in the form of overload across Semesters
Table 1: Proposed Semester-wise Structure 20 Graded Credits of
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
SC Minor/ Specialization
Overload this semester 4-3 credits
.. t:1'*';j;.Courses ;..,1'; S
Overload this semester 3-4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Note: The total of semester VI+VII+VIII
should be 20 graded credits
B. Structure of Departments Specialization in Engineering Innovation:
Department Area Specialization in Engineering Innovation is aimed at making
students Industry Ready by offering five months Practical Project in an Industry
It focuses on the use of technical knowledge to create
products and processes which have usability
specialisation is to recognise such creative engineering endeavours. This activity
is not expected to aim only publication of papers. It must happen in collaboration
with an lIT J faculty member and is expected to have an industrial or User agency
as a partner with MoU. Each project carried out by students will have both a
experience working for an industry or R&D
complements their academic experience. Projects are aimed to enable them for
meaningful careers and provide them with an opportunity to engage with industry
supervisor. Students get
organization on a project
value. The objective
and an institute
Engineering Innovation will be a full semester 20 credit engagement. 10 Credits
out of 20 will be taken up as a part of Open electives, whereas the student
required to opt
for an additional 10 credits in the form of course overload. A
student would be required to complete a minimum of five months in industries or
R&D organization or Institute for Department Area Specialization in Engineering
Innovation. Students can opt for it in either the 7th or 8th Semester.
Note: Keeping this in view, Environmental
science will be offered in both
c. Structure of Minor/Specialization leading to Dual Degree:
The following semester wise structure will be followed for minor specialisation.
Students will be required to take 10 credits in the form of overload across Semesters
Table 2: Proposed Semester-wise Structure 54 Graded and 2 Non-Graded
Credits for the dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.]
Up to Semester VII same as Table 2
o The total of semester VI+VII+VIII
should be 20 graded credits and IX+X
would be graded 34 credits. Graded credit
requirements for second degree
M.Tech is 54, whereas 2 Non-graded requirements. This included credits
earned as a part of specialization during VI and VII semesters.
• Credits of Specialization done in Semester VI and Semester VII
if not part of
M.Tech. programme will be counted towards M.Tech. core/electives. Students
will be required to complete all MTech. Core courses except
courses. Students will be required to take additional credit of Programme
Elective against preparatory
courses. Courses of M.Tech. core/electives UG
students can not
core/elective may be clearly stated
take due to significant overlap with Minor/Specialization
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure 58 Graded and 11 Non-Graded
Credits for dual d
o The total of semester VI+VII+VIII
should be 20 graded credits and IX+X would
requirements for second degree MBA and
be graded 34 credits. Graded credit
MBA Tech is 58, whereas 11 Non-graded requirements. This included credits
earned as a part of specialization during the VI and VII semesters. Out of 11
nongraded credits, 2 Deslqn credits will be double-counted toward the winter
6 credits associated with HSS Bouquet HSS Bouquet
Machine Learning will be double-counted.
III and IV, and 4 credits
to Machine Learning/Pattern Recognition and
Dual-deg Annexure 27-3
CI #01 to CI#06
IDRP-QIC#O 1 to
Computer Science & Engineering
1 +4 (with EE)
5+4 (with CS)
1 + 1
3 + 1 (with CI)
Civil and Infrastructure
2 + 1 (with ME)
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Metallurgical & Materials
Humanities & Social SCiences,
School of Management &
School of AI and Data Science
IDRP - Robotics & Mobility
IDRP - Smart Healthcare
IDRP - Quantum Information and
IDRP - Digital Humanities
IDRP - Space Science
IDRP - loT and applications
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
Department of Bioscience & Bioengineering
i) Details of approved Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Tabl 1 S
egree ea mg 0 .pecia iza Ion 0 ere
.oecra iza Ion an
d b D tiS h
Name of Dual
ii} Semester-wise Positioning of the core courses
Modern approaches of drug designing [3-0-0]
Introduction to Precision Medicine [3-0 ..01
AI based drug discovery [2-0-0]
Principles of drug discovery [3-0-0]
Medicinal chemistry [3-0-0]
Viral infection and antiviral drug development
Antimicrobial drug and drug resistance [2-0-0]
Anticancer drug discovery and development [3-0-0)
Modern approaches for Immunotherapy [3-0-0]
Novel Drug Delivery Systems [3-0-0]
Theranostic Systems [3-0-0]
TEDD project [0-0-3]
ruc ure 0
f20 G d d C dit
re I san
POSIiorunq 0 core courses or
as an overload
Introduction to Precision Medicine
pecia rza I
Overload this semester 3 credits
Modern approaches of drug
AI based drug discovery [2-0-0]
Specialization elective I
Specialization elective II
Specialization elective III
Specialization elective IV / TEDD
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
2 L" t
2: Microbial Systems Engineering
.pecra iza Ion
ec rves as per
ena e approve
list of core courses
List of Elective courses
Engineering Microbes [3-0-0]
Bioprocess Engineering and Fermentation
Mathematical modelling of microbes [1-0-2]
Metabolic Engineering for biofuels [2-0-0]
environmental biotechnology [3-0-0]
Microbes in food and sustainable
Soil Microbiome & Microbial Technology [2-0-0]
Biofilms: Bacterial communities [3-0-0]
Gut Microbiomes in Health and Disease [3-0-0]
Downstream processing [3-0-0]
10 MSE Project
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
Overload this semester 3 credits
Bioprocess Engineering &
Fermentation Technology [3-0-0]
Mathematical Modeling of
Specialization electives II
Specialization elective III
Specialization elective IV I MSE
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27m2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
Department of Chemical Engineering
i) Details of approved Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Tabl 1 S
egree ea tng 0 .oecra iza Ion 0 ere
.oecia iza Ion an
d b D tiS h
,y ep c 00
Name of Dual
CH, CI, ME
Specialization 1: Sustainability
Tabl.Et~Z:L.lstot~:ipe~¢lal.lzaltl()lj G.ore and t::.1!ecnves as. oer o...;:.on<:1ta
CHL41SU: Solid Waste Management
CHL4190: Wastewater Treatment
CHL7XXO: Ocean Thermal Energy
CHL7XXO: Microfluidic Fuel Cell
CHL4160: Air Pollution Control
CHL4180: Energy Resources [3-0-0]
CY6XXO: Catalysis for Energy [3-0-0]
CHL4070: Membrane Technology [3-0-0]
CHL4060: Unit Operations [3-0-0]
CHL4170: Processing of Rare-earth and
Radioactive Materials [3-0-0]
CHL7240: Advanced Wastewater Treatment
CHL7370: Hydrogen & Methanol Economy [3-0-0]
10 CHPXXXX: Specialization focused Mini Project
11 CHXXXX: Specialization focused Design & practical
12 CHXXXX: Specialization focused research review
ruc ure 0
f 20 G d d C dit
re I san
POSIrornnq 0 core courses or
us ama II
Solid Waste Management
as an overload
Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
SC Microfluidic Fuel Cell (1-0-0)
Overload this semester 3 credits
2: Molecular Engineering
IS 0 .pecra iza Ion
T bl 4 L'
ec rves as per
ena e approve
List of core courses
List of Elective courses
CHL4200: Molecular Transport Phenomena
Introduction to Complex Fluids
Interfacial Engineering in Soft
CHL4XXX: Organic Molecules, Complexes and
Polymers for Electronics and Optoelectronics
Introductory Principles in Polymer
CHL4220: Molecular Thermodynamics
CHL4210: Fluid-Like Structures and
CHL7XXO: Molecular Engineering of Water [1-0-0]
CHL7XXX: Polymers for Electronics and
CHL7XXO: Molecular Simulations [2-0-0]
CHL7XXO: Food Engineering [3-0-0]
CHL7XXO: Modelling of Atoms, Molecules and
10 CHPXXXX: Specialization focused Mini Project
11 CHXXXXX: Specialization focused Design &
practical experience [0-0-4]
12 CHXXXXX: Specialization focused research review
~ Jle 5: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for Molecular
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
Introduction to Complex Fluids
Overload this semester 3 credits
Interfacial Engineering in Soft
Overload this semester 4 credits
Molecular Transport Phenomena
Overload this semester 3 credits
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
i) Details of approved Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Table 1: Summary of Specialization and Dual degree leading to Specialization offered by Dept.
Name of Dual Degree
Civil and Infrastructure
Civil and Infrastructure
+ Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
ME, CH, CI,
Specialization in Energy
e Details available in the ME department document.
ii) Semester-wise Positioning
Specializations leading to Dual Degree.
the core courses
in Tables 2-5 for All
Cyber-Physical Systems for Infrastructure
AIIML in Infrastructure Engineering [3-0-0]
Smart Infrastructure: Design and Simulation
Thermal and Nuclear Power Infrastructure
Surveillance and Security of Infrastructures
Digital Twin and Asset management [3-0-0]
Introduction to Power Infrastructure
Infrastructure planning and design for rail
and air transport [3-0-0]
IT and Telecom Infrastructure [3-0-0]
Specialization Project (maximum 6 credits)
Table 2b: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for Smart
n ras ruc ure .pecia rza Ion
A student may take specialization course SC
as an overload if eligible
AI/ML in Infrastructure Engineering
Cyber-Physical Systems for
Infrastructure: Design and
Overload this semester 4-3 credits
a e a:
pecia iza Ion
List of core courses
Fate of Chemicals in the
Climate Change and Impact
Overload this semester 3-4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
ec ives as per
ena e approve
List of 5E Elective courses
Remote Sensing and GIS for Environment
Solid Waste Management
Air Pollution and Control
Advanced Wastewater Treatment
Environmental Economics and Management
Machine Learning for Environmental Engineering
GIS and Public Health [3-0-0]
Environmental Biotechnology and Bioremediation
Specialization Project (maximum 6 credits)
Indoor air pollution [2-0-0]
I Biosafety and Public health [2-0-0]
.( "ote: Three 2 credit courses (approved in existing M Tech Curriculum) have been added to the list of
In addition to this
electives (marked in red). Currently there are only 3 and 4 credit courses in the list.
Specilization stream electives I M Tech electives required for dual degree programme will be as per M
Table 3b: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
Fate of Chemicals In the
Overload this semester 3-4 credits
Overload this semester 4-3 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Dual Degree for Specialization 2: Environmental Engineering
Total {As per M
Note: 11 Credits of "Core and Elective Courses" of Specialization will be counted as "Specialization
Stream Electives (SSE)".
Introduction to Sustainable Infrastructure Engineering [3-0-0]
Note: List of Electives will be as per M.Tech. curriculum
Table 4c: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54 Graded and 2 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of
core courses for the specialization leading to dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.]
Up to Semester VII same asTable 3b
Introduction to Sustainable
Overload this semester 3 credits
Innovation and IP
Note: SC/SE for specialization will become SSE for dual degree programme
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03: 00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
i) Details of approved Specialization
and dual degree programmes
in the following Table:
Table 1: Summary of Specialization and Dual degree leading to Specialization offered by
Details available in the EE department document.
Name of Dual
CSE, AI, EE, ME
CSE, AI, EE, ME
EE, ME, BB, MT,
CSE, AI, EE
1: Visual Computing
-pecia iza Ion ore an
List of core courses [8 Credits]
Computer Vision [3-0-0]
Computer Graphics [3-0-0]
Visual Computing Lab [0-0-4]
ec ives as per
ena e approve
List of Elective courses [12 Credits)
3D Shape Analysis [3-0-0]
Introduction to Haptics [3-0-0]
Advance Machine Learning [3-0-0]
Computational Photography [3-0-0]
Video Processing [3-0-0]
lVisual Perception [3-0-0]
Introduction to AR and VR [3-0-0]
Real-Time Vision Architectures
Scalable Machine Learning [3-0-0]
Image Processing [3-0-0]
Image Analysis [3-0-0]
Compressive Sensing [3-0-0]
Image and Video Forensics [3-0-0]
Special Topics: Advancements in Computer Vision
Selected Topics in Computer Vision [3-0-0]
Specialization Project [0-0-6]
Principles of Biological Vision [3-0-0]
1. Add "Principles
and "Special Topics: Advancements
Vision" as Specialization
2. The name of
Table 2: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for
>pecla iza Ion
A. student may take specialization
course as all
Overload this semester 3 credits
,overlo~d if engil;?J~
Visual Computing Lab
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
2: Socio-Digital Reality
ectives as per enate approve
List of core courses [8 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
Introduction to AR and VR [3-0-0]
Social Networks [3-0-0]
Computer Graphics [3-0-0]
Natural Language Understanding [3-0-0]
Introduction to Haptics [3-0-0]
Computer Vision [3-0-0]
Image and Video Forensics [3-0-0]
Table 4: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for
Overload this semester 4 credits
Introduction to AR and VR
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
1. Update AI Labs to ML-Ops and DL-Ops
2. Change Algorithms for Big Data to [3-0-0] as the course was updated during MTech review.
3. Add Autonomous Systems, ML for Communications,
and Planning and Decision Making for
Robots as Specialization Electives.
Table 6: Proposed Sernester-wise.Structure
of 20 Graded Credits and positi6ning of core courses for
* Since DL is a core for BB students,
they can take any other course from SE as part of SC.
Dual Degree for Specialization
re I requiremen s or ua
7 C dlt
Semester VI to VII
Semester VIII to X
Total (As per MTech
List of core courses [18 Credits]
1 Optimization [2-0-0]
3 Advanced data structure and algorithms [2-0-0]
4 ML-Ops [0-0-2]
5 Deep Learning [3-0-0]#
6 DL-Ops [0-0-2]
7 Core bucket: Advanced AI/Autonomous
Note: List of Electives will be as per M.Tech. curriculum
* For all students, ML course is a preparatory course and should be replaced with any of the PEs.
# Since DL is a core for BB students,
they can take any other course from PE as part of PC.
Table 9: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54 Graded and 2 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of
core courses for the specialization leading to dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.]
Up to Semester VII same as Table 6
Advanced Data Structure
MTech Program Electives
M.Tech. Project 1 [0-0-5]
System Engineering and
MTech Program Electives
Overload this semester 4-3 credits
MTech Open Electives
MP Major Project-2 [0-0-15]
Innovation and IP
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room,
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2D1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
l) Details of approved Specialization
Tabl 1 S
.pecia iza Ion an
and dual degree programmes
egree ea Ing to ipecla iza Ion 0 ere
in the following
d b D tiS h
ep1 C 00
EE, ME, CH, Yes
Name of Dual
EE and CS
EE and CS
EE and CS
EE and CS
Visual Cornputinq" EE, CS,AI,
EE, CS, AI
EE, CS, AI
Nano and Flexible EE
Ifhings (Alo T)
Sensors and 10T$
# Details in CSE Document
* Dual Degree Option will be available for only ME and EE
Dual Degree Option will be available only for EE
ii} __Semester-wise Positioning of the core courses for ~II s ecialisations
1: Cyber-Physical System
and S~ecializations leading to Dual'
Table 2 List of Specialization Core and Electives as per Sen a e approved documen
List of core courses [8 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
Introduction to Cyber-physical
in Manufacturing Systems1-0-0
Robust and optimal control 3-0-0
Nonlinear and Adaptive control 3-0-0
Modern Control 3-0-0
Networked Dynamical Systems and Control 3-0-0
Introduction to robotics 3-0-0
Autonomous Systems 3-0-0
Real-Time Systems 3-0-0
Reconfigurable Computing 3-0-0
Measurement and Instrumentation 3- 0-0
Computer Networks 3-0-3
System Identification 3-0-0
Computer Vision 3-0-0
Edge & Fog Computing 3-0-0
Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs) 3-0-0 Introduction to
Smart Grid 3-0-0
Smart Manufacturing 1-0-2
Resource Constrained AI 3-0-0
Industry 4.0: Applications
Specialization Project 0-0-6
Plugin Electric Vehicles (EE) 3-0-2*
Selected Topic on Distributed Generation (EE) 3-0-0*
Introduction to Haptics (EE) 3-0-0*
Ad Hoc wireless network (CS) 3-0-0*
Human machine interface (CS) *
Security and its Applications (CS) 3-0-0*
5G networks (CS) 3-0-0*
Social Network analysis (CS) 3-0-0*
Graph theory and its applications (CS) 3-0-0*
Introduction to Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality (CS)
Computer Graphics (CS) 3-0-0 *
Computational optimization (CS) 3-0-0*
Dependable AI (CS) 3-0-0*
Robotics and mobility systems (RMS) 3-0-0*
Mobile robots (RMS) 3-0-0*
Autonomous systems (RMS) 3-0-0*
Aerial Robots (RMS) 3-0-0*
Planning and decision making for robots (RMS) 3-0-0*
Tele Robots (RMS)3-0-0*
Dynamical Systems (MA)3-0-0*
Introduction to data science (MA)3-0-0*
Mathematics for data science (MA)3-0-0*
Nonlinear dynamics and chaos (MA)3-0-0*
Intelligence I (CS) 3-0-0*
Intelligence II (CS) 3-0-0*
systems (CS) 3-0-0*
Advanced Control System [3-0-0]
Security in CPS [2-0-0]
for inclusion of these courses as specialization electives,
the course are already approved
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for
.pecra iza Ion
; i1~f; ~~~;~;:~r~,"
as an overload
Advanced Control System [3-0-0]
Introduction to Cyber-physical
this semester 4 credits
Dual Degree for Cyber Physical Systems
Overload this semester 3 credits
Security in CPS[2-0-0]
Overload this semester 3 credits
'J; bl 4 C dlt
re I requirernen s or ua
Semester VI and VII
Semester VIII and X
(54 GC + 2 NGC)
Table 5: List of Dual Degree Programme Core (Excluding courses of Preparatory nature)
List of core courses
Introduction to Cyber Physical Systems [3-0-0]
Cyber Physical System Modelling and Simulation Laboratory
Introduction to Modelling (Fractal offered by Dept. Of Mathematics
Simulation of Dynamical Systems [1-0-0]
Security in CPS [2-0-0]
and Networking [2-0-2]
Advanced Control System [3-0-0]
Embedded System Design [3-0-0]
[Only for ME]
Embedded System Design Laboratory [0-0-2]
[Only for ME]
Note: List of Electives will be as per M.Tech. curriculum
a e 5: 1St0
List of core courses
Introduction to Smart Grid
2 Renewable Energy Systems
3 Power Quality [2-0-0]
ectives as per
List of Elective courses
EEL 7XXO Power System protection [3-0-0]
EEL7XXO Power System Dynamic and Control
EEL7XXO HVDC and FACTS [3-0-0]
EEL7XXO Power Quality Mitigation Techniques [3-0-0]
EEL7XXO Power System Restructuring [3-0-0]
EEL7XXO Plugin Electric Vehicles [3-0-2]
EEL7XXO Selected Topics in Distributed Generation
EEL7XXO Power system Reliability and Security
EEL4XXO Introduction to Cyber Physical Systems
Table 26: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for
; pecialization .,
as an overload
SC Power Quality [2-0-0]
SC Introduction to Smart Grid [3-0-0]
Overload this semester 3-4 credits
SC Renewable Energy Systems
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2 ..1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
Department of Mechanical Engineering
i) Details of Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Table 1: Summa
Name of Specialization
Name of Dual
AMD (Only for ME)
AMD (Only for ME)
iiLS~mester-wisePositioning of the core courses in Tables 2 and 3 for All specialisations
leading to Dual Degree.
Specialization 1: Design Engineering
Table 2 List of Specialization Core and Electives as per Sena e approved documen
List of core courses [8 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
MEL7XXO: Advanced Mechanics
of Solid [3-0-0]
MEL7XXO: Finite Element Methods and its
MEL7XX1: Optimization [1-0-0]
MEP7XXO: Design Lab [0-0-2]
1. Mechanical Vibrations [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
2. Introduction to Acoustics [3-0-0, Credit:3, 600
3. Geometric Modeling & CAD [2-0~2, Credit:3, 700
4. Robotics [3-0-2, Credit:4, 700 Level]
5. Principles and Techniques of Vibration Control
Credit:3, 600 level]
6. Techniques of Noise Control[3-0-0, Credit:3, 600
7. Mechanics of Soft Materials[3-0-0, Credit:3, 600
8. Product Design & Feasibility[3-0-0, Credit:3, 600
9. Nonlinear Oscillations and Chaos [3-0-0,
Credit:3, 600 Level]
10. Experimental Modal Analysis [3-0-2, Credit:4,
11. Vehicle Dynamics [3-0-0, Credit:3, 600 Level]
12. Theory of vibrations [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
13. Rotor Dynamics [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
14. Helicopter Dynamics [3-0-0, Credit:3, 700 Level]
15. Project Credit:3
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for Design
.pecra iza Ion
A student may take specialization
as an overload
SC MEL7XXO: Finite Element Methods
in Engineering [3-0-0]
Overload this semester 3 credits
MEL7XXO: Advanced Mechanics
of Solid [3-0-0]
MEL7XX1: Optimization [1-0-0]
MEP7XXO: Design Lab [0-0-2]
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
D«'''';I Degree for Specialization
(Dual Degree: Advanced Manufacturing
1: Design Engineering
Semester VI and VII
Semester VIII to X
Note: 4 credits of Core Courses counted as preparatory courses and 4 additional credits added as program electives
EE: Introduction to Sensors (Fractal Course)
MEL7XXO: Geometric Modeling & CAD
MA: Optimization (Fractal course)
(Done as a part of Specialization)
MEL7XXO: Materials & Manufacturing Processes
MEL7XXO: Advanced Mechanics of Solid [3-0-0] (Done as a part of Specialization)
* F IIo owmq
ourses will be coun e as preparatory courses
MEP7XXO: Smart Manufacturing*
MEL7XXO: Industry 4.0 Applications
in Manufacturing Systems*
CS: Introduction to Machine Learning (Fractal course)*
Note: List of Electives will be as per M.Tech. curriculum
Table 6a: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54 Graded and 2 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of core
cours es for the dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.J
Up to Semester VII same as Table 3
MEL7XXO: Materials &
Overload this semester 4 credits
MP M.Tech. Project
Modeling & CAD
EE: Introduction to
Sensors (Fractal Course)
Non-graded PG courses
Non-graded PG courses
counted towards M.Tech. PE.
Minimum graded credit requirements for M.Tech. may vary from 54, whereas 2 Non-graded requirements.
Courses of Specialization done in Semester VI and Semester VII if not part of M.Tech. Programme will be
S:'''''1cialization2: Micro-Nano Engineering
1. Micro-Nano Flows [3-0-0, Credit:3, 600
1. Nanomaterials (MTH3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 400]
2. Porous media-flows & applications [3-0-0,
2. MEMS and Microsystems Technology
Credit:3, Level: 600]
[3-0-2, Credit:4, Level: 700]
3. Precision and Micro-Manufacturing
3. Microfluidics Lab [0-0-2, Credit: 1, 600 level]
Credit:3, Level: 700]
5. Microsystems Fabrication Technology (EE)
[3-0-0, Credit3, Level: 700]
[3-0-0, Credit3, Level: 700]
6. Micro-Forming Techniques [3-0-0, Credit3,
7. Micro-Nano Mechanics [2-0-0, Credit:2, Level:
8. Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer
[3-1-0, Credit:4, 700 Level]
9. Computational Materials Science (PH)[3-0-0,
Credit:3, Level: 700]
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
Micro-Nano Flows [3-0-0, Credit:3,
Microfluidics Lab [0-0-2, 600 level]
Overload this semester 4 credits
MEMS and Microsystems
Technology [3-0-2, Credit:4,
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
3: Energy Engineering
Table 2: List of Specialization Core and Electives as per Senate approved document
f List of core courses
List of Elective courses
1. Non-Conventional Sources of
1. Green Building and Sustainable Materials (CI)
Energy and Emerging Technologies
(ME) [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
[3-0-0; Credit 3, Level 700]
2. Wind turbine and field design (Civil)[3-0-0, Credit:3,
2. Solar Energy and Applications
13-0-2, Credit:4, Level: 700}
3. Energy Economics and Policy
l1-0-0, Level: 700]J
3. Optics for Solar Energy Applications (PH) [3-0-0;
Credit: 3; Level 600]
Energy Harvesting (PHY)[3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
5. Biomass Energy Conversion (BIO) [3-0-0, Credit:3,
(ME) [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
7. Building services and Intelligent building (Civil)
[3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
8. Smart Grid (EE) [3-0-2, Credit:4, Level: 700]
9. Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer
[3-1-0, Credit:4, 700 Level]
10. Renewable Energy Systems (EE) [3-0-0, Credit:3,
11. Automotive Propulsion [3..0-2, Credit:4, Level: 700]
12. Combustion Technology [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
13. Materials for Energy Conversion and Storage (MT)[
3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 400]
14. Conduction and Radiation [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level:
15. Convective Heat and Mass Transfer
Credit:3, Level: 700]
16. Porous media flows & applications [3-0-0, Credit:3,
17. Project Credit:3
to make it more suitable to students belonging
from the earlier
to the Dept. of civil & Infrastructure
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for Energy
neennq r ;pecla iza Ion
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
Solar Energy and Applications
(ME) [3-0-2, Credit:4, Level:
Energy Economics and Policy
[1-0-0, Level: 700].
Non-Conventional Sources of
Energy and Emerging Technologies
(ME) [3-0-0, Credit:3, Level: 700]
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Dual Degree for Specialization 3: Thermofluids Engineering
Semester VI and VII
Semester VIII and X
Note: 4 credits of Core Courses counted as prepatory courses and 4 additional credits added as program electives
1 MEL7060: Applied Heat and Mass Transfer [3-0-0]
MEL7051: Multiphase Systems and Chemical Reactions [1-0-0]
MEL7052:Kinetic Theory [1-0-0]
MEL7070: Experimental Techniques in Thermofluids [3-0-0]
MEL7040: Incompressible Fluid Flow [3-0-0]
MEL7XXO: Matrix Computations [1-0-0]
MEL7XXO: Numerical Methods for ODE [1-0-0]
MEL7XXO: Numerical methods for POE [1-0-0]
MEP7010: Fluid Engineering Lab [0-0-2]
10 MEP7020: Thermal Engineering Lab [0-0-2]
Note: List of Electives will be as per M.Tech. curriculum
Table 6a: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54 Graded and 2 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of core
cours es for the dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.]
Up to Semester VII same as Table 3
Methods for ODE
MEL 7XXO: Numerical
methods for PDE
Overload this semester
MEL7060: Applied Heat
and Mass Transfer
Systems and Chemical
Non-graded PG courses
MP M.Tech. Project
NG Non-graded PG courses
counted towards M.Tech. PE.
Minimum graded credit requirements for M.Tech. may vary from 54, whereas 2 Non-graded requirements.
Courses of Specialization done in Semester VI and Semester VII if not part of M.Tech. Programme will be
Dual Degree for Specialization
1 bI 4 C dlt
re I requiremen s or ua
Engineering with Specialization
Semester VI and
Semester VIII and
Note: 8 Credits of "Core Courses" of Specialization will be counted as "Specialization Stream Elective." and 3
Credits of "Elective Courses" of Specialization will be counted as "M. Tech Electives {ME)".
Table 5: List of Dual Degree Programme Core
List of Programme
Introduction to Sustainable
Infrastructure Engineering (CI) [3-0-0; Credit 3: level 700]
Note: List of Specialization Streams
and M.Tech. Electives will be as per M.Tech. curriculum
Table 6a: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54 Graded and 2 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of core
courses for the dual d
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
Specialization 4: Smart Manufacturing
Table 2 List of Specialization Core and Electives as per Sena e approved documen
List of core courses [9 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
MEL7)()(O: Materials and Manufacturing
EE: Introduction to Sensors (Fractal Course)
MEL7)()(O: Robotics [3-0-2]
1. Geometric Modeling & CAD [2-0-2, Credit:3, 700
2. Product Design & Feasibility [3-0-0, Credit:3, 600
3. MEL7)()(O: Computer Aided Manufacturing
Introduction to CPS
4. MEL7)()(O: Mechanical Metallurgy
5. MEL7)()(O: Theory of Arc Welding
6. MEL7)()(O: Welding Metallurgy
7. CSXXX: Machine Learning I
8. CSXXX: Artificial
10. MEL7)()(O: Precision and MicroManufacturing
11. MEL7)()(O: Applied Ergonomics
12. MEL7)()(O: Mechatronic Systems Design
13. MEL7)()(O: Additive Manufacturing
14. MEL7)()(O: Design for X
15. MEL7)()(O: Computer Aided Inspection
and Quality Control
16. MEL7)()(O: Welding: Metallurgy, Defects
17. MEL7)()(O: Non-Conventional Welding
18. MEL7)()(O: Welding inspection and
19. MEL7)()(O: Microfluidics Technology
20. Project Credit:3
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for Smart
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
MEL7)()(O: Materials and
Manufacturinq Processes [2-0-2]
EE: Introduction to Sensors
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Dual Degree for Specialization
4: Smart Manufacturing
Semester VI and VII
Semester VIII and X
Note: 4 credits of Core Courses counted as preparatory courses and 4 additional credits added as program electives
MEL7XXO: Materials and Manufacturing Processes [2-0-2] (Done as a part of Specialization)
EE: Introduction to Sensors (Fractal Course)
[1-0-0] (Done as a part of Specialization)
MEL7XXO: Robotics [3-0-2]
MEL7XXO: Geometric Modeling & CAD [2-0-2]
MEL7XX1: Optimization [1-0-0]
MEL7XXO: Advanced Mechanics of Solid [3-0-0]
* F II
e coun e as prepara ory courses
MEP7XXO: Smart Manufacturing*
Industry 4.0 Applications
in Manufacturing Systems*
CS: Introduction to Machine Learning (Fractal course)*
Note: List of Electives will be as per M.Tech. curriculum
Table 6a: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54 Graded and 2 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of core
cours es for the dual degree [B.Tech.+M.Tech.j
Up to Semester VII same as Table 3
Modeling & CAD
Mechanics of Solid
Non-graded PG courses
MEL 7XXO: Robotics
Overload this semester 4 credits.
Non-graded PG courses
counted towards M.Tech. PE.
Minimum graded credit requirements for M.Tech. may vary from 54, whereas 2 Non-graded requirements.
Courses of Specialization done in Semester VI and Semester VII if not part of M.Tech. Programme will be
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
Department of Mathematics
i) Details of approved Minor and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Tabl 1 S
egree ea Ing 0 ;pecla rza Ion 0 ere
.pecia iza Ion an
d b D tiS h
ep1 c 00
Name of Dual
ME, MT, CI,
~i)Semester-wise Positioning ofthe core courses
Minor: Data Science
Tabl 2 L' t
IS 0 .pecia iza Ion
ec ives as per
ena e approve
List of core courses [8 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
Introduction to Data Science [1-0-0]
See Annexure 1
Inference and Simulation
CSL7xxx: Advanced Machine Learning [3-0-0]
MAP7xxx: Applied ML Lab [0-0-2]
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
Overload this semester 3 credits
Advanced Machine Learning
Introduction to Data Science
Overload this semester 4 credits
Applied ML Lab
Overload this semester 3 credits
Dual Degree for Minor
T bl 4 C dit
re I requirernen s or ua
Semester VI and VII
Semester VIII - X
Total (54 + 2 NG)
rJ, Credits (Statistical
core courses for the Minor program have been counted as Program Electives of the M.Tech. programs.
Inference and Simulation Techniques, Advanced Machine Learning, Applied ML Lab) of
Table 5: List of Dual Degree Programme Core (Excluding courses of Preparatory nature)
List of core courses'[15 Credits]
Introduction to Data Science (1-0-0)
Optimization for Data Science (2-0-0)
Statistics for Data Science (2-0-0)
Introduction to Modelling (1-0-0)
Data Analytics Lab (0-0-2)
Algorithms for Big Data (3-0-0)
Mathematical Modelling and Simulation (1-0-2)
Deep Learning (3-0-0) [BB students must take a minor elective in glace of this course];
Students opting for Minor cannot opt for Linear Algebra for Data Science and Machine Learning. BB students
can not opt Deep Learning.
List of Electives will be as per M.Tech. curriculum.
Table 5: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 54 Graded and 2 Non-Graded Credits and positioning of core
courses for the specialization leading to
Up to Semester VII same as Table 3
Algorithms for Big Data
Introduction to Modelling
Mathematical Modelling and
Applied ML Lab
Overload this semester 3 credits
M.Tech. Open Elective
MP M.Tech. Project
Optimization for Data
Statistics for Data
Data Analytics Lab
Annexure 1: List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
Introduction to Financial Engineering
Stochastic Calculus for Finance
Time Series Analysis
Reliability Engineering and Life Testing
Introduction to Game Theory
Non-linear dynamics and chaos
Maths for Big Data
Discrete Mathematical Structures and Applications
Statistical Models and Regression
Topological Data Analysis
Group Theory for Machine Learning
Image and Video Analytics
Graph Theoretic Algorithms
Image and Video Forensics
Introduction to AR and VR
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
i) Details of approved Minor and dual degree programmes
.pecra iza Ion an
egree ea Ing 0 .pecia iza Ion 0 ere
School of Management and Entrepreneurship
in the following
d b D US h
epl C 00
Name of Dual
([B.Tech. + MBA])
Minor 1: Entrepreneurship
ist 0 ipecla izatlon
of the core courses
lectlves as per
enate approved document
List of core courses
Ideation & Prototyping (MSL7250)
New Venture Financing (MSL 7260)
Starting up New Venture (MSL7240)
Business Plan Phase-I (MSP7030)
Business Plan Phase-II
Systems Engineering and Project Management
Innovation and IP Management
A student may take specialization
course as an
Business Plan Phase-I
Innovation and IP
58 G d d
ra e an
d 11 N
G d d C dlt
re I s or ua
. ec +
B li h MBA
Up to Semester VII same as Table 4
MC/ME MBA Core [Even offering]
Overload this semester
3 credits+ 1 NG
MBA Core [Odd offering]
MC/ME MBA Core [Even offering]
Business Ethics (1-0-0 [1])
Business History (1-0-0 [1])
National Program (1-0-0 [1])]
2 Design credits should be taken toward winter
***If Dual degree aspirants can decide on their choice of going for dual degree by the end of Semester VI,
List of MBA Elective as per MBA curriculum
Minimum graded credit requirements for MBA is 58" whereas 11 Non-graded requirements.
6 credits associated with HSS Bouquet HSS Bouquet
III and IV, and 4 credits associated with Introduction to
Machine Learning/Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning will be double-counted. Total 68+11. Based on the HSS
courses taken relaxation in MBA courses may be permitted with prior approval of DRC SME.
internship and will be double-counted.
they should opt for Winter
start of the VII semester,
during the IX semester.
1st year MBA. As it runs on weekends, Dual degree aspirants can be invited to attend those sessions as and when
organised by SME faculty.
Technology Lab-1 (0-0-2[1]) & Technology Lab-2 run as a compulsory Audit
they are not able to decide on their choice of dual degree before the
they can decide on it at a later date and accordingly,
they need to opt for winter internship
in odd & even semester
If in case,
Financial Accounting & Reporting (MSL7XXO)
2 Marketing Management-I
3 Macroeconomic Environment of Business (MSL 7070)
4 Business Research Methods (MSL7080)
5 Managerial Economics (MSL7050)
6 Corporate Finance-I
7 Statistics for Management
8 Operations Research (MSL7040)
Managing Human Capital
Managing Digital Enterprises (MSL7140)
Legal Aspects of Business (MSL7150)
Strategy Formulation (MSL7160)
Managing New Ventures
Managing Innovation (MSL7230)
Strategy Execution (MSL7200)
Global Economy (MSL7110)
Note: If 4 credits of minor electives done in VII Semester
is out of the above then will be counted as MBA core for dual
58 G d d
ra e an
d 11 N
G d d C dlt
re I s or ua
B li h MBA
Up to Semester VII same as Table 4
MC/ME MBA Core [Even offering]
Overload this semester 3 credits+ 1 NG
MC/ME MBA Core [Even offering]
MBA Core [Odd offering]
Business Ethics (1-0-0 [1])
Business History (1-0-0 [1])
National Program (1-0-0 [1])]
nature for the students
as per MBA-Tech curriculum.
List of Tech Essential and Tech leadership
Note that any Tech Essential
should be replaced by advanced elective with approval of ORe
Minimum graded credit requirements for MBA is 58, whereas 11 Non-graded requirements.
6 credits associated with HSS Bouquet HSS Bouquet
course of preparatory
Machine Learning/Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning will be double-counted. Bases on the HSS courses
taken relaxation in MBA course may be permitted with prior approval of DRC. Toal will be 68 + 11.
they should opt for Winter
start of the VII semester,
during the IX semester.
1st year MBA. As it runs on weekends, Dual degree aspirants can be invited to attend those sessions as and when
organised by SME faculty.
2 Design credits should be taken toward winter
***If Dual degree aspirants can decide on their choice of going for dual degree by the end of Semester VI,
Technology Lab-1 (0-0-2[1]) & Technology Lab-2 run as a compulsory Audit
they are not able to decide on their choice of dual degree before the
III and IV, and 4 credits associated with Introduction to
they can decide on it at a later date and accordingly,
internship and will be double-counted.
they need to opt for winter internship
in odd & even semester
If in case,
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
Centre for Mathematical and Computational Economics, School of AI and Data Science
i} Details of approved Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
r bl 1 S
ipecla rza Ion an
ua egree ea Ing 0 ipeClaiza Ion 0 ere
Name of Dual
d b D tiS h
Specialization/Minor: Mathematical and Computational Economics
and 3 for
AIL4010 Microeconomics-1 (3-0-0)
AIL7010 Machine Learning for Economics (3-0-0)
AIL4020 Individual and Strategic Decision
Making: theory and applications (2-0-0)
AIL7XXO Social Choice Theory (3-0-0)
AIL7XXO Behavioral Economics and Decision
AIL7XXO Introduction to Mechanism Design (3-0-0)
AIL7XXO Social and Economic Networks (3-0-0)
MAL8XXOComputational Game Theory (3-0-0)
AID7XXO Project-1 (0-0-3)
AID7XXO Project-2 (0-0-3)
d Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
MIDRP of sal
i) Details of Specialization/minor and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Tabl 1 S
eqree ea Ing 0 .pecia tza Ion 0 ere
.pecta iza Ion an
d b D US h
School of Artificial
Name of Dual
'~""ii) Semester-wise Positioning of the core courses
i~Specialization 1: Science of Intelligence
lntroductionto Cognitive Science [2-0-0]
From Perception to Action [2-0-0]
Principles of Neural Design [2-0-0]
Method and tools of Science of Intelligence
EEG Signal Analysis
Basics of Computational Neuroscience
Sensation and Perception
Computational Cognitive Neuroscience
Theories of Intelligence
10 Advanced Cognitive Processes
"[ bl 3 P
,; ..", •.' ..• ·0
ruc ure 0
f 20 G d de
re I s an POSI iorunq 0 core courses or
A student may take specialization
course as an overload if eligible
Introduction to Cognitive Science
From Perception to Action [2-0-0]
Overload this semester 3 credits
Method and tools of Science of
Principles of Neural Design
Minor/ Specialization /Electives
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
IDRP of RMS
i) Details of Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
ummary 0 ipecla izatlon an
T bl 1 S
egree ea Ing to ipecra lzation 0 ere
d b 0
Name of Dual
ii) Semester-wise Positioning of the core courses for Specialization in Robotics
Introduction to Robotics [3-0-0]
Experimental Robotics [0-1-2]
L7220 Mobile Robots [3-0-0]
RML7230 Aerial Robots [3-0-0]
o Advanced Robotic Manipulation [3-0-0]
RML7240 Robot Operating System [2-0-2]
RML7970 Selected Topics on Robotics [1-0-0,
CS7XX Computer Vision [3-0-0]
CS7XX Introduction to AR VR [3-0-0]
EE7XX Introduction to Haptics [3-0-0]
EE7XX Wireless Communication
EE7XX UAV Assisted Wireless Networks [3-0-0]
EE7XX Introduction to Cyber Physical Systems
AI4XX Introduction to Industry 4.0 [3-0-0]
ME7XX Smart Manufacturing [1-0-2]]
RMD6010 Robotics Project
RMD6020 Robotics Project
Table 3: Proposed Semester-wise Structure of 20 Graded Credits and positioning of core courses for
.pecia iza Ion
...;\';; •.. .~:~{;,,:I.••..'~>, Courses
Experimental Robotics [0-1-2]
Overload this semester 4 credits
Introduction to Robotics [3-0-0]
Overload this semester
Autonomous system [3-0-0]
Overload this semester
Note: Students will also be required to complete any non-graded credits associated with a minor programme.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
IDRP Smart HealthCare
i) Details of approved Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Tabl 1 S
egree ea Ing to ipecra ization 0 ere
ummary 0 .pecra ization an
d b D US h
,y ep c 00
Name of Dual
ii) Semester-wise Positioning of the core courses for Specialization Smart healthcare
Table 2: List of Specialization Core and Electives as per Senate approved document
List of core courses [8 Credits]
List of Elective courses [12 Credits]
Diagnostics and Therapeutics
AI in healthcare
Prosthetics and Implants
Statistics and Data analysis
Principles of drug discovery
Principles of Nuclear Magnetic
Theory & Applications of
Introduction to medical
ARNR applications for
Disease process diagnostics and
Introduction to Precision
AI based drug design
Genetics and Genome
' Project work
Project course is proposed
to be 3 credits.
20 G d d C dlt
.pecia iza Ion
Diagnostics and Therapeutics
Overload this semester 3 credits
AI in healthcare
Implants and Prosthetics
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
School/lDRP/Department of IDRP-QIC
Minor in Quantum Information and Compuation
i) Details of approved Specialization and dual degree programmes in the following Table:
Tabl 1 S
egree ea Ing to ipecra iza Ion 0 ere
.pecra iza Ion an
d b 0 US h
ep c 00
Name of Dual
ii) Semester-wise Positioning of the core courses for Specialization Minor in QIC
Table 2: Li
QCLXXXX Quantum Communications
QCLXXXX Quantum Computing 3-0-0 [3]
Quantum Optics and Engineering 3-0-0 [31
Quantum Cryptography and Coding 3-0-0 [3]
QCLXXXX Quantum Optics and Quantum
Non-classical states for Quantum Information and
Computation 3-0-0 [3]
Open Quantum Systems 3-0-0 [3]
Nonlinear Optics and Nonclassical Light Detection
Techniques 3-0-0 [3]
Seminal Features of Quantum Information
Processing 3-0-0 [3]
Hilbert Space Techniques for Quantum Mechanics
Quantum Computational Finance 3-0-0 [3]
Quantum Machine Learning 3-0-0 [3]
ruc ure 0
f20 G d d C dlt
re I s an POSI iorunq 0 core courses or
Quantum Optics and Quantum
Overload this semester 4 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
Overload this semester 3 credits
(**)! Revised to 3-Credit
in order be consistent with total credit of 20
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Academics
Academic Calendar: Academic Year 2021-22 (UGFirst year)
Fee link activation
Last day of Fee payment by students
3 Online documents
of New UG Students
lVerification of online submitted
of New UG Students
Last date of registration
~he Faculty Advisors
to be approved by
22 November 2021
26 November 2021
27-30 November 2021
1-4 December 2021
11 March 2022
16 March 2022
16 March 2022
1-2 December 2021
3 December 2021
19 March 2022
10 Finalization of Course Roll List
and Add / Drop of Courses 13 December 2021
15 December 2021
6 December 2021
I and E to D grade conversion
exam (1st Year ---
21 March 2022
28 March 2022
30 March 2022
2-3 April 2022
12 Last date of course withdrawal
13 Class Committee Meeting (week)
14 Last date of Commencement
[l'ime Table committee meeting for Next
14 January 2022
17-21 January 2022
29 January 2022
22 April 2022
25-29 April 2022
14 February 2022
30 May 2022
16 Student Feedback on all courses
21-23 February 2022
15-16 June 2022
Last date of Classes/Pre major
18 Major Examination
(UG 1st Year)
19 Vacation Begins (UG 1st Year)
20 Online submission
21 Moderation Committee Meeting
Display of Grades to all the students
on the moderation
Last date of submission
grades to the Office of Academics
for all the
of hard copies of
28 February - 4 March
5 March 2022
9 March 2022
10 March 2022
17 June 2022
20-23 June 2022
24 June 2022
28 June 2022
29 June 2022
11 March 2022
30 June 2022
14 March 2022
4 July 2022
24 Last date for submission
of the course files
16 March 2022
25 KTacationEnds (UG 1st Year)
26 K'erification of grades
20 March 2022
21 March 2022
5 July 2022
6 July 2022
31 July 2022
If the Government
of the Saturday(s)/Sunday(s)
2. Lectures on the following
of India announces
any additional Holiday on a working day, then one
will be observed as a working day.
days will be held with the schedule
of the days mentioned
(a) Saturday, 29 January 2022: Wednesday's Time Table will be followed.
(b) Saturday, 11 June 2022: Wednesday's Time Table will be followed.
(c) Tuesday, 14 June 2022: Thursday's Time Table will be followed.
If the requisite number of lectures cannot be scheduled,
the instructors may, in
consultation with the students in their respective courses, decide on a schedule of extra
classes. A regular course has engagement of 12 lectures (one lecture of 60 minutes) per
4. There will be no extra classes on Gazetted Holidays.
5. Saturdays and Sundays falling within the examination period will be used for scheduling
examinations. Under extraordinary circumstances, examinations of some of the courses
may be scheduled on the days preceding the mid-semester/end
6. Summary of the total number of teaching days is given in the table below:
Total nos. of Teaching Days
7. List of holidays
Institute Holidays Calendar for the Year 2021
25 December 2021
* List of Holidays for Year 2021 has been taken from DoPT Order
8. List of holidays
Institute Holidays Calendar for the Year 2022
26 January 2022
01 March 2022
18 March 2022
14 April 2022
15 April 2022
03 May 2022
16 May 2022
10 July 2022
09 August 2022
15 August 2022
19 August 2022
02 October 2022
Idu'l Fitr *
Hi-ul-Zuha (Bakrid) *
Mahatma Gandhi's Birthday
05 October 2022
09 October 2022
24 October 2022
08 November 2022
25 December 2022
Dussehra (Vijay Dashmi)
Milad-un-Nabi or Id-e-Milad"
Guru Nanak's Birthday
*Maybe changed, subject to any further order of Central/State Government, if any
* List of Holidays for Year 2022 has been taken from DoPT Order (F. No. 12/5/2021-JCA-2)
Dated 8 June 2021.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.5 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
for Postgraduate Diploma in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing
In today's world,
the art and science of deriving insights
(data science) or making automated
prediction via mathematical-programmatic
models (machine learning) using big data are paramount
to solving critical challenges essential
to taking businesses and society by large to a higher
activities to gather, structure, and store huge amounts of data called Data Engineering and engineer
Both these sciences find their
in a more fundamental
and services called Cloud Computing. Currently, a
dearth for quality Data Engineers is observed who can lead and execute a complete life cycle of a
- from data collection to insight generation from big data on a cloud platform.
2. Objective of the Program
The proposed Postgraduate Diploma in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing aims to explain the
of data engineering
various industry domains such as Retail, Finance, People (Human Resources), and Social Media etc.
the program will connect
various phases and the
of a real-world
- Data Collection & Ingestion of various types of
data, Data Storage techniques and infrastructure
on Cloud, Data Processing, and Insight Generation
from the stored data.
3. Expected Graduate Attributes
large data sets that may be structured,
contiguous streams or heaps of data .
., Develop and maintain optimal data pipeline architecture for various types of data projects.
Build the data infrastructure
required for optimal extraction,
Automate manual processes to optimize data delivery,
for greater scalability.
Collaborate with key stakeholders of a data project
to assist, resolve, and support cloud data
Devise strategies to rapidly deploy data applications on cloud
Develop analytical models and tools that utilize the data pipeline and provide insights.
4. Learning Outcome
" Work in a Python environment,
read data into data structures,
read-write into files, dean and
analyze data to obtain valuable insights.
Design modern databases, write applications to manipulate data thereof.
Learn and apply computer
science principles & algorithms in the development of distributed
Explain modern big data technologies, ecosystems, and conceptualize big data systems.
Design and implement
storage and processing techniques for every type of big
Deploy data mining techniques to discover insights from big data.
Develop a cloud deployment
strategy for a big data application and implement
Use supervised and unsupervised learning techniques to derive insights from big data.
5. Offered for: Working professional with minimum of two years of work experience (after qualifying
6. Program Modules
(i) Bridge Course for Data Engineering and Cloud Computing
a. Python Programming
b. Databases & SQL Programming
c. Distributed Computing
(ii) Data Engineering
a. Big Data, Systems, & Platforms
b. Big Data Storage & Processing
c. Machine Learning with Big Data
(iii) Cloud Computing
to Cloud Computing
b. Cloud Computing Platforms
c. Distributed Storage Systems
d. Deploying Big Data on Cloud
a. Retail Analytics
d. Digital Financial Services
e. Digital marketing Analytics
Social Media Analytics
g. Qualitative Analytics for Business
7. Topic Cloud for compulsory
Bridge Course for Data Engineering and
Data Types, Operators, Built-in Functions, Packages, Custom
Ingestion (pandas), Cleaning (NumPy), Database
Database Management, Entity, Types, ER diagram, Relational
DDL, DML, CRUD, Views, Data types
operations, PL-SQL, Functions, Triggers, Procedures, Models,
Patterns, Adapting Algorithms
SVD, rank approximation,
Issues/Challenges, matrix algebra, Decompositions,
Random Variables & Distributions,
Central Tendency & Dispersion, Descriptive Statistics, Test of
Data Stores, Database Model Differentiation, Usage Pattern,
Big Data Characteristics, Application, Technologies, Big Data
Types, Structures, Models, Schemas, Scalable Distributed
Computing System Architecture, Hadoop Ecosystem, Data
Warehouse, Data Marts, Data lakes, ETl, olAP, NoSQl and
Object Databases, HDFS, Architecture, Components, Cloud
Storage, Regression - Linear, lasso, Ridge, logistics, ARIMA,
NlP, Clustering, Classification Mining, Data Exploration, Data
Ingestion, Processing and Scheduling Batch and Streaming
Data, ResourceManagement; Workflow Scheduling.
Cloud Platforms, Cloud Storage, Compute Power, VMs,
Containers, Serverless Computing, Cloud Computing Types,
layers, Deployment Models, Simplified Enterprise Cloud
Architecture for Big Data and Analytics, Big Data Service
Providers on Cloud, Virtualization, Containers, Docker &
Kubernetes, Deployment Strategy, Application Deployment
8. Program Structure:
Python Programming for Data
Big Data Management
Machine Learning with Big Data
Fundamentals of Distributed
Linear Algebra for Big data
PG Diploma in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing
The instructor will
train students in matrix computations and their applications
in big data techniques.
The students are expected to understand various matrix computations
and their applications
in big data
analysis. They learned to use numerical
linear algebraic methods and use them to carry out data analysis.
Matrix Algebra [7 lectures]: Matrix operations
eigenvectors, Diagonalizable matrices.
and type of matrices, Rank of a matrix, Eigenvalues and
[7 lectures]: Spectral decomposition, QR Factorization, Singular value decomposition
Linear algebra with data [7 lectures]:
Least square approximations, Dimensionality
Approximation, Principal component analysis
of various matrix eigenvalue solvers,
matrix decomposition methods, and dimensionality
1. Strang, G., (2019), Linear Algebra and learning from data, Wellesley-Cambridge
2. Elden, L. (2007) Matrix Methods in Data Mining and Pattern Recognition, SIAM.
1. Agarwal, C. (2020), Linear Algebra and Optimization for Machine Learning, Springer
2. Simovici, D. A.,(2012), Linear Algebra Tools for Data Mining, World Scientific.
Online course Material
1. Agrawal, P.N., Numerical
Linear Algebra, NPTEL course material,
Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, https:llnptel.ac.in!courses!111107106!
Statistics for Data Engineering
PGDiploma in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing
The Instructor will provide an understanding of some of the statistical concepts and their applications in
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Gain the basic knowledge of probability theory and descriptive statistics;
2. Perform hypotheses testing and estimation of the parameters for a given parametric family of
3. Gain the basic knowledge of regression analysisand its application in modelling of real data sets.
Basics of Probability Theory and Descriptive Statistics [5 lectures]:
Introduction of random variables,
Mean and Variance, Popular univariate distributions, Cll: Measures of Central Tendency & Dispersion,Basic
Probability Models and Sampling Techniques [3 lectures]: Normal, Chi-Square and t distributions, Basic
concepts of random sampling, sampling from normal distribution, properties of sample mean and sample
Estimation [5 lectures]: Point estimation-Maximum likelihood estimator; Methods of evaluating estimators:
Unbiasedness, MSE; Interval estimation: Finding confidence intervals for the mean and the variance of a
normal population using pivot technique.
Testing of Hypotheses [6 lectures]: Basic concepts of statistical hypotheses testing, simple and composite
hypotheses, critical regions, Type-I and Type-II errors, size and power of a test, UMP test, Tests for
one-sample and two-sample problems from normal populations.
Regression Analysis [6 lectures]: Model Diagnostics, Transformations, Variable Selection; Bi-variate
Gaussian Distribution, Assumptions for
regression, Estimation of Parameters by least Square
Approximation, Hypothesis Test and Confidence Intervals for Model Parameters, Multiple Linear Regression
with data examples, ResidualAnalysis
lab [3 lectures/6 Hours]: Simulation study/Real data analysis using R/Python.
1. Ross,S.M. (2014). Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Engineers and Scientists, Academic
2. Black,K. BusinessStatistics: For Contemporary Decision Making, Wiley & Sons.
1. Rohatgi,V.K.and Saleh,A.K.M.E. (2018), An Introduction to Probability and Statistics, Wiley.
2. Montgomery D.C., Peck, E.A. and Vining,G.G. (2013). Introduction to Linear RegressionAnalysis,
Online course Material
1. Shalabh, Linear Regression Analysis and Forecasting, NPTEl Course I Material, Department of
Mathematics and Statistics, IITKanpur, https:/Inptel.ac.in/courses/111/104/111104098/
Python Programming for Data Engineering
in Data Engineering with Cloud
1. Provide an understanding of the role of computation
in problem solving.
2. Provide an overview of the computing and networking environment where code gets deployed.
1. Use the basic elements of computer
loops, arrays, and write programs.
2. Solve problems with software tools.
programs, such as, statements,
variables, events, conditionals,
[2 Lectures]: Basics of computer
using Arduino, Operating System,
Computational Thinking: Problem solving, system design, algorithms.
Basics of Data Representation
[5 Lectures]: Binary representation:
Integer, Fixed point and floating point
numbers, variables, arrays and linked-list, data-types
Programming Constructs [4 Lectures]:
Imperative programming, statements, control constructs, procedures,
Examples using Python
Object oriented Programming
[10 Lectures]: Concept of class, instances, encapsulation,
Methods and class Methods, object memory management,
using Python. Lists, Tuples, Sets,
Dictionaries, Generators Modules, packages, containers.
Programming Paradigms [7 Lectures]:
operator, Procedural programming,
Dynamic typing, Polymorphism Dynamic Binding and Duck Typing,
Illustrations using Python.
Programming exercises using Python. Basic exercises on control structures,
test case estimation, and other general concepts covered in the course.
libraries, visualization of
and Programming Using Python: With Application
Understanding Data. MIT Press.
(2018), Python: The Complete Reference, 4th Edition, McGraw Hill Education
1. Patt, Y. (2017),
to Computing Systems, 2nd Edition, McGraw Hill Education
Online Course Material
1. The Python Tutor: https://pythontutor.com/
Databases and SQL Programming
in Data Engineering with Cloud
1. To understand concepts of database design, database management
systems and their applications,
data modeling, and query languages.
2. To understand
processes, database recovery mechanisms, query processing and optimization.
1. Apply different
data modeling methods
analysis, design, and implementation
2. Deduce normalized forms for efficient
relational database design.
3. Use appropriate storage and access structures.
4. Use techniques for transaction management,
concurrency control and recovery
Preliminaries: Database system concepts
and architecture. Semantic Data Model: Entity-Relationship
model, Enhanced Entity-Relationship
and Languages: Relational
data model, Relational
database constraints, Relational
database design by ER- and EER-to-relational mapping, Relational algebra and Relational
SQL: Schema definition, Constraints, Queries, Views. (5 Lectures)
Database Design Theory: Functional
for Query Processing and
Query Optimization, Database File Organization: Disk storage, File structures, Hashing techniques,
Advanced Databases: Distributed
data, Big data, NoSQL databases.
Exercises in SQL covering: Data definition, Data manipulation, Data retrieval, Transaction control, Exercises
in PL/SQL covering procedures,
loops, triggers, NoSQL data organization and query optimization.
1. R. ELMASRI, S.B. NAVATHE (2017), Fundamentals of Database Systems, Pearson Education, 7th
2. R. RAMAKRISHNAN, J. GEHRKE (2014), Database Management Systems, McGraw-Hili, 3rd Edition.
1. P. RAJ,A. RAMAN, D. NAGARAJ, S. DUGGIRALA (2015), High-Performance Big-Data Analytics:
Computing Systems and Approaches, Springer, 1st Edition.
2. N. SABHARWAL, S. GUPTA EDWARD (2014), Big Data NoSQL: Architecting MongoDB, CreateSpace
Independent Publishing Platform, 1st Edition.
Big Data, Systems, and Platforms.
in Data Engineering with Cloud
2. Provide technical understanding of data structures for Big Data.
Introduce big data, characteristics, concepts,
lifecycle, and ecosystem.
1. Explain modern
big data technologies,
between trivial and big data, and conceptualize big data systems.
2. Articulate examples of real-world use-cases for big data in businesses across a variety of industries.
3. Appreciate how the characteristics of big data have changed traditional organizational workflows.
Evolution of Data (6 Lectures): History of Big Data, Data generation sources, Organization of generated data,
Characteristics of big data, OLTPversus OLAP, Data warehousing concepts, Data growth and usage patterns,
Data lakes using cloud '
Big Data Characteristics
(9 Lectures): Big Data characteristics
(The Big "V"s)
, Dimensions and Scalability,
Getting value from big data, Acquiring, pre-processing, and exploring big data, Generation of insights and
detection, Big Data uses in retail
of Big data, Social network data application, Application of Big Data in financial
Foundations of Big Data Systems and Programming (12 Lectures): Data Types, Structures, Applications, Data
Models, Schema, Non-linear Data Structures for Big Data, Data Models & Schema, Distributed vs Parallel
File Systems, Programming Models, Scalable Distributed Computing System
Hadoop Ecosystem (15 Lectures):
to Hadoop ecosystem, YARN, MapReduce.
of data structures, models.Distributed
programming for big data analysis
Programming and implementation
using Hadoop and Mapreduce.
1. Hurwitz J.S, Nugent A., Halper F., Kaufman M. (2013), Big Data For Dummies,
2. Marr B. (2015), Big Data For Small Business For Dummies,
1. deRoos D. (2014), Hadoop For Dummies,
Big Data Management
in Data Engineering with Cloud
learn how to collect, store and organize data.
Learn modern processing platforms, programming, management
systems, and tools.
1. Evaluate appropriate
2. Develop cloud deployment
cloud solution for big data application
strategy for a big data application and implement
Introduction to Big Data Management
Math for Data, Data Models, Structures, and Operations,
(CSV,JSON.Iand Array Data Models).
(4 Lectures): Review of SQL Based Database management
Big Data Representation
(10 Lectures): Data Abstraction, Data structures
for Big Data: Hash-tables,
Hash-maps, Bloom Filters, KD Trees, Distributed Algorithm Design, Algorithm Design using Map-Reduce. Big
Data Modeling: Models vs Format, Vector space, Graph, Data Streams, Data Lakes.
Big Data Management:
Processing using HDFS and Hadoop,
Spark. Processing Data: ETL and Batch Processing:
Ingesting data into data platforms, NoSQL databases for
BigTables. processing Real time data and streaming data, applications of streaming data.
Programming Frameworks: Pandas, numpy, scipy
Databases: MongoDB, Lucene, Redls,
1. Tom White, Hadoop: The Definitive Guide. Fourth Edition (2015). O'Reilly Publishers
J.Lin, Ch. Dyer, Data-Intensive
Text Processing with MapReduce. Morgan and Claypool Publishers,
1. Edward Capriolo, Dean Wampler, Jason Rutherglen, Programming Hive: Data Warehouse and Query
Language for Hadoop. First Edition (2012), O'Reilly Publishers.
Big Data Retrieval and Integration
in Data Engineering with Cloud
1. Retrieve data from example databases and big data management systems.
Identify and Execute a big data integration problem based on a specific use-case.
1. Explain big data storage approaches and techniques.
2. Design and implement appropriate storage techniques for every type of big data.
3. Deploy data mining techniques to discover
insights from big data.
4. Design and implement workflow to process streaming or batch data.
Fundamentals of Big Data on Cloud (3 Lectures):
Introduction to modelling and management, working with
Introduction to software frameworks for big data processing.
Big Data Retrieval
to big data retrieval, Aggregation functions, Querying data,
Extract-Transform-Load, OLAP databases, OLAP implementations
Big Data Integration (6 Lectures): Data Integration overview, Data management using Splunk and datameer,
with HDFS, HDFS architecture and components, Cloud Storage.
analytics, NoSQL and Object Databases, Types of NOSQL Databases, Storing and processing
Mining Big Data (12 Lectures):
Data exploration, Statistical approaches to estimation.
to data mining, Data Mining techniques, Types of attributes,
Processing Big Data (18 Lectures): Big Data processing pipelines, High Level processing operations, Data
Ingestion, Processing and Scheduling Batch Data} Processing and Scheduling Streaming Data,
Processing, Ad-hoc & Real-Time Processing, Structured Data Processing, Semi-structured Data Processing}
Orchestration, Resource Management, Coordination & Workflow Scheduling
Working with HDFS, NoSQL, Hive, MapReduce, Splunk, Ozzie, Apache Spark, Sqoop and Flume
1. Ponniah P.(2012), Data Warehousing: Fundamentals for IT Professionals, 2ed, Wiley
2. Kantardzic M. (201n Data Mining: Concepts, Models} Methods and Algorithms, 2ed, Wiley
1. deRoos D. (2014L Hadoop For Dummies}
2. Chellappan S.} Acharya S. (2019), Big Data and Analytics, 2ed, Wiley
Machine learning for Big Data
PG Diploma in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing
1. To understand various key paradigms for machine learning approaches
2. To equip students with the mathematical
techniques used in machine learning
1. To formulate
2. Select an appropriate
a machine learning problem
pattern analysis tool
for analyzing big data.
3. Use supervised and unsupervised learning techniques to derive insights from big data.
Supervised Learning (21 Lectures): Linear Regression and Gradient Descent, Regularized Linear Models -
Lasso Regression, Ridge Regression, Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machine, Random Forest, Neural
Time Series Forecasting (ARIMA), Natural Language Processing (NLP), Text
Mining and Sentiment Analysis
Unsupervised Learning (15 Lectures): Clustering - K-Means, Recommender Systems: Collaborative Filtering,
Classification using Association Rules Mining, Autoencoders.
Laboratory Experiments (6 Lectures/12 Hours)
This is basically a hands-on course with emphasis on implementing Regression, Decision trees, Classification
Models and Clustering techniques.
1. Chellappan S., Acharya S. (2019), Big Data and Analytics, 2ed, Wiley.
2. R. O. Duda, P. E. Hart, D. G. Stork (2000), Pattern Classification, Wiley-Blackwell,
3. C. M. Bishop (2006), Pattern Recognition and Machine
Learning, Springer-Verlag New York, 1st
Algorithms, Cambridge University Press
2. Mitchell Tom (1997). Machine Learning, Tata McGraw-Hili
Online Course Material
of Computer Science, Stanford University, https://see.stanford.edu/Course/CS229
PG Diploma in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing
1. Expose how big data and analytics pave the way for better decision making in the retail
2. Explore real-world business use cases of retail analytics.
1. To perform statistical analysis on data pertaining to the retail
(14 Lectures): Technology
enabled by Big Data and Analytics, Business Use Cases of Analytics
in Retail and Changing Nature
Important Enabling Technologies (AI, Cloud,
loT, Computer Vision, Cybersecurity).
Inventory Forecasting, Order Fulfillment & Store
Location, Customer Lifetime Value, Customer Segmentation, & Assortment Management Path to Purchase
in Financial Services (28 Lectures):
(Customer Journey Mapping}, Churn, & Retention, Purchase Likelihood Modelling, Pricing & Promotion.
1. Bullard B. (2016L Style and Statistics: The Art of Retail Analytics,
1. Artun O. (2015L Predictive Marketing: Easy Ways Every Marketer Can Use Customer Analytics and
Big Data, led, Wiley
2. Cox E (2012), Retail Analytics: The Secret Weapon,
PG Diploma in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing
1. To provide students grounding in current evidence and best practices about managing people.
2. To equip students with
the skills and understanding
necessary to make data analytic based
pertaining to various aspects of people management.
the shifts in people management
practices and growing emphasis on evidence based
decision making with
pertaining to people within organizations
2. Develop hands on understanding
the mechanics of using data-analytic
people management decisions.
(14 Lectures): Conventional HR Decision Making; Advances in People Management Practices;
Role of Data and Data Analytics
in People Management;
Review of Fundamentals
of Univariate and
Analytics Application in People Management
Hiring Analytics: Person-Job Fit Decisions; Predictive Hiring; Matching Algorithms
Incentivization, Nudging, and Engagement: Randomized Control Trial (RCT) based evaluations.
Managing Attrition: Ranking of factors driving retention, Exploring use of survival models.
Team Dynamics: Team Composition
and Performance, Exploring Diversity Indices, Advances in Data
Analytic Intelligence and Implications
to Future of People Management Practices.
Contours of Data Driven Analyses: Aiding or Substituting Human Decision Making, Biases and Ethics
in Elicitation and Use of Data.
Laszlo, B. (2015). Work Rules.
Insights from Inside Google That Will Transform How You Live and
Lead. New York, NY: Hachette Book Group.
2. Edwards, M. R., & Edwards, K. (2019). Predictive HR analytics: Mastering the HR metric. Kogan Page
1. Guenole, N., Ferrari J., & Feinzig, S.
(2017). The power
Learn how successful
organizations use workforce analytics to improve business performance. FT Press.
8. Blockchain: The Second Era of
the Internet, Design Principles, Public and Private Ledgers, The
Blockchain Ecosystem, Examine blockchain as a business solution, with a focus on understanding
business cases in which blockchain does and does not make sense. (6 Lectures)
9. Fintech Ethics and Risks: Learn how individuals
can utilize and regulate
blockchain, AI, and other FinTech solutions to ensure their adoption does not come at the expense
of societal growth.
Module II (Banking)
1. Banking Analytics: Bank Balance Sheet and Ratio-based analysis, Regulatory Framework in Banking,
Basel Regulations and its implications, Big-data cluster and Profitability Analysis (5 Lectures)
2. Bank product
pricing and competition
Index, PRH Statistics, Cost function
Bank, Competition Analysis using Lerner Index & Boon Indicator
3. Bank's Valuation: Valuation Anomaly, Altman Z Score and Default Analysis (4 Lectures)
1. Banking Module: Risk Management
2. Cavendish, Marshall
(2012). Brett King, Banks 3.0
in Banking, Joel Bessis, John Wiley & Sons
3. King, Brett (2014). Breaking Banks, Wiley
1. Chishti, Susane and Barberis, Janos (2016). The FinTech Book, Wiley
2. Vigna, Paul and Casey, Michael J. (2015). Crypto Currency, Bodley Head
Digital Marketing Analytics
PG Diploma in Data Engineering and Cloud Computing
1. Understanding of the digital marketing ecosystem and the various channels within it
2. How to leverage a mix of marketing
channels to develop a cohesive online presence Visualizing
social media network
3. Set key performance indicators for each individual marketing channel
to use important
analytics with a focus on digital
2. To evaluate a company's
level of digital marketing
and to recommend
3. To interpret data critically and identify
key takeaways to make actionable business decisions.
Understanding Digital Marketing and Analyties:
importance of digital marketing,
to digital marketing,
difference between traditional
and digital marketing,
trends and current scenario of
the industry, analytics in digital marketing, digital marketing analytics as a
tool of success [8 Lectures]
Digital Marketing Channel Mix:
experience, digital Channels, consumer behaviour across digital channels, online consumer
role of peer
influence in the purchase process, customer
networks in in digital marketing, digital customer
journey and digital marketing funnel
Analyties in Digital Marketing: Social Network Analytics, Web Analytics, Traffic Analytics,
owned, earned media, social media marketing strategies, build an engaging social media marketing strategy,
campaign and channel management,
use of predictive analytics in digital marketing,
models across digital marketing channels [12 Lectures]
Optimizing return on investment: Factors influencing
measure ROI, ROI optimization strategies for marketing campaigns [10 Lectures]
return on investment,
search engine optimization,
Emerging Areas: New technology
future of digital marketing [4 Lectures]
in the digital
future of digital marketing,
impact of Alan the
1. Sponder, M. and Khan, G.F., 2017. Digital analytics for marketing. Routledge.
1. Chaffey, D., 2019. Digital marketing. Pearson UK.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.5 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
02 November 2021
Subject 1 Introduction of New courses and External s Review
Subject 2 Modifications and editing changes in Course outlines
Subject 1: Elective course outlines for the existing title and
introduction of new elective courses (Received external experts'
reviews for all the outlines)
Table 1: S. No. 1-4 are the pre-approved course titles with new outlines and S. No. 5-10 are
the new titles with outlines (proposed after incorporating expert's review comments)
Name of the Course (Annexure refer to outlines)
Algorithmic Trading (External Comments) (outline)
Financial Analytics (External Comments) (outline)
Financial Engineering (External Comments) (outline)
Advanced Investment Science (External Comments)
Financial Risk Management
Below, New courses are proposed to be (Open) Electives
Indian Financial System (External Comments)
Technological Solutions for Rural India (External Comments)
Managing Personal Finances (External Comments)
Cross-Cultural Business Environment and Management
Self- Develo,gment through Ancient Indian Wisdom (External Comments)
1. Out of the five (S. No 1-5 as in table 1) titles from the Finance area, S. No 1-4 were the
approved titles in the 1st MBA Curriculum document (approved in the 20th Senate meeting)
2. One of the titles, "Quantitative Finance", had overlapping content with Financial Analytics
and hence was removed.
the earlier titles, AI for risk analysis and Risk Management
analytics, had overlap
content. Upon recommendation
the courses on AI for Risk
Analysis and Risk Management Analytics are merged to form a new course 011 Financial Risk
by Prof. Saravanan,
Table 2: External Experts'
review of all the newly proposed outline and faculty's response
from External experts
Name of Expert &
(a) Algorithmic Trading
(b) Financial Analytics
(c) AI for Risk Analysis
(d) Risk Management Analytics
(e) Advanced Investment Science
(f) Financial Engineering
Expert: Dr. Neelam Rani,
Courses same as above
(Annexure 12.1 to 12.5)
Expert: Dr. Arun Misra,
Asso.Professor, Vgsom, lIT
I have the
is for credit risk management.
The course outlines are well prepared.
following observations. The Title/name of the
course Financial Engineering is not appropriate.
The course content
The title Financial Engineering sets more
nature. Coverage of all electives is up-to-date and
of good business
to avoid any overlapping of contents. Class
delivery should be contemporary case study mode,
should teach possible 10 percent of
contents. Alternatively, 2/3 classes can be delivered
Course: Financial Analytics
Expert: Dr. P. Saravanan,
that enough examples/cases
dealt with by the faculty 2. This must be duration?
1. Have you planned to do the course through AI?
delivered through AI is not amplified. Probably if
the faculty could make it clear to the students,
will be better.
fine. But, how these
Sorry, I could not correlate the title and contents.
Barring topics 7 and 8, the rest of the topics are
from the "Financial Econometrics"
concerned faculty to check the curriculum of FRM
and make more
level 2 or 3.
Course: AI for Risk Analysis &
Risk Management Analytics
Expert: Dr P. Saravanan,
Course: Risk Management
Expert: Dr. P. Saravanan,
Course: Advanced Investment
Expert: Dr. P. Saravanan,
Professor, IIM Trichy
Course: Financial Engineering
7. Expert: Dr P. Saravanan,
No changes in the existing course
1. Examples and cases will be covered
in the class. These
are not usually
written in the one-page broad outline.
It refers to the
2. diurnality is correct.
periodic pattern in intraday financial
analysis and Risk Management
analytics, had overlap content.
courses on AI for Risk Analysis
and Risk Management Analytics
are merged to form a new course
on Financial Risk Management.
curriculum has been referred to
the course will
Some parts of
exercise will be shared in the
detailed course outline.
the course with the real-life examples
discussed in the class.
and cases will be
Two sessions on future and options trading strategy
could be included
Course: Indian Financial System
Expert: Dr. Arun Misra,
Asso.Professor, Vgsom, IIT
1. Corporate Debt Market should be included along
with bond rating:
2. Foreign Exchange Market needs to be included
along with basic calculation of foreign exchange
financing, GDR, ADR, IDR
3. Commercial Banking along with Basel Norms
need to be included:
4. Venture capital and venture financing
instruments need to be included
5. Prescribed books are not a good standard. For
the Indian context, you can provide reading
materials from RBI, SEBI and NSE. For an
understanding of theories of the financial system,
the following book (Financial Markets and
Institutions, Global Edition paperback-I4,
by Mishkin F and Eakins S. published by Person)
may be referred to:
Course: Indian Financial System
Expert: Dr Nalini Tripathy,
The course outline is matching with industry
requirements. You can go ahead with the given
Course: Managing Personal
Expert: Dr Anil Kumar Sharma,
10. Professor, DMS, IIT Roorkee
1. Time value of money may be added here. 2.
Introduction to Portfolio Theory and CAPM may
be added here 3. The above 1-8 points may be
expanded with a detailed description as what the
the semester/term 4. Any book on financial
management may be added here to understand the
time value of money and Portfolio theory.
is expected to cover under these points in
Course: Managing Personal
Expert: Dr. Smita Kashiramka,
11. Asso. Professor, DMS,
Course: Technological Solutions
for Rural India
Expert: Dr. Shiv Prakash, Asst.
Professor, Allahabad University
(Has done intense research in this
Course: Technological Solutions
for Rural India
Expert: Dr Harish Kumar, Asst.
(Has done intense research in this
Course: Technological Solutions
for Rural India
Expert: Dr K K Biswas, C.S.E.,
14. Professor, IIT Delhi
1. Grammatical changes in the course outline. 2.
Shared a course outline of Instructor: Banker
Phares in order to improve the content. 3. Learning
outcomes: will the process of buying a house is
Additional Contents: Connect them with the
Internet and social media and explain 'Do' and
To address the confusion regarding the COVID-19
Vaccine and encourage them to take the vaccination
as soon as possible.
Encourage them to use sustainable technologies
The cross marked lines are to be removed as these
statements are not fitting well with the objective
and outcomes of the said course title. In reference:
Kindly add relevant Textbooks or Reference books
also for the students.
Enhanced contents: and familiarity with digitised
land records; Design of tools to connect
with online banking,
institutions such as Banks,
to help them
loan facilities, how to make
is also covered
I.Added to the updated course outline
2. Added to the updated course outline.
3. This part
4. This content
course on Investment banking.
5. The idea of studying from RBI,
SEBI and NSE is good and
incorporated. Suggested book, i.e.
Financial Markets and Institutions,
added as the textbook.
is also covered in the
there is no change in
No action needed
1. Time value will be covered in the
second topic: Saving Money for the
future. 2. CAPM model and Portfolio
theory is part of the Corporate Finance
the course outline. 3. This will form
part of a detailed course outline to be
shared later. 4. Financial Management
book will form part of Corporate
Finance course. Online study material
would be shared to study the time
value of money.
1. Grammatical changes incorporated.
2. The one-page outline has a list of
broad topics to be covered. The shared
outline is the detailed one and will also
help prepare the detailed outline of
subject. 3. Buying house point is
deleted from the learning outcomes.
The learning is about buying or rent a
The suggested changes for the
Contents and reference books are
incorporated in the revised outline.
The suggested changes for the
Contents and reference books are
incorporated in the revised outline.
The suggested changes for the
Contents and reference books are
incorporated in the revised outline.
it looks good. However,
therefore, you may consider
(i) one module on understanding
them aware of security issues of the Internet such
as phishing, make them aware about digitallockers.
I have just one minor observation for your kind
consideration. Since the course is also about
economic and business environment
beginning, and (U) one reference text on
International Business Environment.
There is the repetition of the same thins twice in the
content, marked in yellow colour for your
For the benefit of students, I think the content of
the course outline should be reflected in the
prescribed textbook more or less( of course, not
necessary). Maybe the course designer can rethink,
or else it is perfectly all right.
The course should be approved.
I saw the outline it looks fme. The pedagogy is
missing in it, which is an important part.
Course: Cross-Cultural Business
Environment and Management
Expert: Dr Tripati Rao, Professor
15. IIM Lucknow
Course: Cross-Cultural Business
Environment and Management
Expert: Dr. Puma Chandra
16. Pradhan, Asso. Professor, XLRI
through Ancient Indian Wisdom
Expert: Dr Sunita Singh
Sengupta, Professor, EM.S.,
17. University of Delhi
Swami Dayananda Saraswathi
Kendra) book on the value of values is a wonderful
to draw upon, especially the first 9 values
(of the 20 he has extracted from Gita chapter 13
and written this book).
A very good way to introduce this concept
Samkliya, Yoga and Gita
to draw upon.
is to use
This is out of place here. Take this to the first 2
sessions that I have suggested.
It is a western
Do not use the word "mythology".
making that all Indian stories are "myth". WE do
not think this is a myth. Use alternative and direct
words instead, such as Puranas,
We have added the 2nd module, which
focuses on business and economic
for this; already a
reference book has been added.
As pointed out by Prof Pradhan,
the indicated portions in yellow have
been taken care of, and a repeated
portion has been withdrawn
As per the Institute's
format, pedagogy is not included.
However, I will use mixed pedagogical
methods such as lectures,
debates and case studies.
I will incorporate that while discussing
This is related to developing vital life
skills. I will take references
source as suggested.
I have included it to cover the
importance of learning from ancient
Indian wisdom beyond the individual's
development and to take it to the team,
organizational and societal
However, as suggested,
this in initial sessions as well.
I would cover
Noted. Removed the term 'mythology.'
through Ancient Indian Wisdom
Expert: Dr B Mahadevan,
18. Professor, IIM Bangalore
This is too large a set. You can keep this for your
reference and reading, but give a subset of not more
than 150 pages as readings in the course pack.
away the reading material.
students will not read and simple throw
This is to be given as a reference to
consider for students use. As
highlighted in the outline, a course
docket will be provided to students not
beyond the suggested length.
Course Title Algorithmic Trading
School of Management and
Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) Type
Prerequisite Python and Corporate Finance I
The course introduces key concepts, the trade life cycle, and factors driving the growth of
electronic trading with an Overview of Electronic and Algorithmic Trading, which defines
ideas and gives a historical perspective on the emergence of program and
1. The course introduces Financial Statistics and Modeling Concepts and Tools with detail
on Instrument Pricing, Portfolio Management and Risk Management. It is followed by
insights into trading and arbitrage strategies, with each participant developing and
implementing their own strategies on simulators.
2. Understanding of Algorithmic Trading system architecture and Optimizing Strategies.
Review of portfolio theory,
the basic measurement of markets, Technical Trading, Basics of
Technical Analysis: Chart Types, Chart Patterns, Gap Theory, Candle Pattern, Technical
Indicators & Price Theory,
Indicators, Designing of Strategy Builder using Technical
Designing of Back-Testlnq platform to achieve strategy optimization, Real-time API
Connectivity by handling Broadcast, OMS. & RMS, Real-time Database upgrade & Data
wrangling, Comprehensive LIVE Strategy Engine (14 Lectures)
Grey Box & Black Box Trading (Using Python),
of Scalping, Scaling,
Advance Jobbing & Trend Jobbing in Live Market Environment, Triangular Arbitrage
Strategies for Forex & Commodities, Mean Reverting Strategies like Pair Trading using Z
score Model, Basket Strategy
Strategies, Pre & Post Result based Trading Strategies using Sentiment
Overview on High-Frequency Trading, Overview on Artificial
Intelligence and Machine
Learning in Trading (14 Lectures)
1. Donadio, S. and Ghosh, G. (2019). Learn Algorithmic Trading: Build and deploy
trading systems and strategies using Python and advanced data
analysis, Packt Publishing.
2. Kissell, R. (2013). The Science of Algorithmic Trading and Portfolio Management,
1st Edition, Academic Press
Course Title Financial Analytics
School of Management and
Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) Type
Basic Programming Knowledge and
Corporate Finance I
This course introduces the main models and methods used in the statistical analysis of
Financial data, a Field known as Financial econometrics. Such data often comes in the
the course will use methods from time series
time series, and thus much of
1. This course will
forecast Financial markets and familiarize them with the properties of Financial data.
introduce students to some widely-used models used to study and
2. Students will be able to implement
them to new data, and interpret
1. Review of statistics and econometrics:
linear regression and hypothesis testing (3 Lectures)
these models in statistical software packages, apply
from these models.
pdfs, cdfs, expectation, variance, moments,
to time series analysis (autocorrelations, AR, MA and ARMA models)
3. The efficient markets hypothesis and financial market predictability (3 Lectures)
4. Forecasting Financial market
(ARCH/GARCH models and extensions)
5. Methods of evaluating
Diebold-Mariano tests, and extensions)
6. Sensitivity analysis and robustness checks (3 Lectures)
7. Modelling Financial market
Financial data (diurnality, market microstructure effects)
(multivariate GARCH) 8. High-frequency
9. Spurious regressions and cointegration (2 Lectures)
10. Value-at-Risk and Expected Shortfall
forecasting (2 Lectures)
11. Univariate density forecasting (models, methods for evaluating forecasts)
12. Realized volatility and realized correlation (2 Lectures)
1. Tsay, R.S. (2010). Analysis of Financial Time Series, Third Edition, John Wiley &
School of Management and
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Basic understanding of interest rates,
stochastic calculus, and derivatives.
Understanding the world of credit, market participants,
simple corporate bonds or credit default swaps to complex structured products.
1. The course gives a high-level understanding of credit
and quantitative point of view, and specifically for credit derivatives and credit risk.
from a qualitative
2. It introduces structural and intensity models, structured products, how credit
and risk-managed in a deterministic and stochastic framework.
Introduction to Credit and Credit Risk: role of issuers and buyers, protection buyers and
sellers, Rating agencies.
Instrument and their pricing, specifically corporate bonds and
credit default swaps (CDS), Total Return Swaps (TRS), credit spread options (CSO),
indices (iTraxx and CDX), credit-linked notes (CLN) and collateral debt obligations (CDO).
Credit Risk modeling: expert systems, rating systems (Moody's, S&P, Fitch), credit scoring
(Altman's Z-score) Qualitative and quantitative review and comparison of "Structural" and
"Intensity" models (Merton, Black & Cox, Jarrow& Turnbull, Duffie & Singleton), Future
and options trading strategies.
Quantitative methods: Probability of Default (PoD) and Survival, Recovery Rate (RR), Loss
(CVA), Debt Value Adjustment
Understanding an exploration of Credit Value Adjustment
(DVA), Funding Value Adjustment
(FVA), including Expected Exposures (EE) and Potential
Future Exposure (PFE), Right and Wrong Way Risk (WWR), Basle II & III and the new
regulation on the integrated market and credit risk. (9 Lectures)
IPOs and corporate
such as CDS, Basket CDS, CDO Introduction
Pricing of credit
process and application to credit
in a credit risky context, yield spread,
expectation of the present value of expected payoff
implied default probability, example of the two factor Vasicek bond
forward rate spread,
pricing equation, exploration of the general affine solution.
Introduction to Copulas and
their application to structured finance, specifically CDOs. Understanding of correlation and
dependence. (10 Lectures)
intensity models. Risk neutral valuation,
scbonbucher, P.J. (2003).Credit Derivatives Pricing Models: Models, Pricing and
1 edition, Wiley
Course Title Advanced Investment Science
School of Management and
Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) Type
Prerequisite Corporate Finance I and Corporate Finance
This course is on advanced quantitative
It addresses investor choice, market opportunities,
portfolio theory, practice, optimization,
and optimal portfolio
1. This course will help students construct optimal portfolios,
analyze their performance.
track their behaviour, and
line. Derivation of
time. The security market
the Markowitz bullet, Efficient
investor preferences. Utility of wealth. Basic assumptions
wealth. Absolute and Relative Risk Aversion.
frontier. Equilibrium models, Price of risk. Price
the CAPM, Covariance models. The
1. Orientation. Basic ideas of
2. Review of linear and matrix algebra, matrix calculus. (6 Lectures)
3. Basic unconstrained
Optimization. Equality and Inequality Constraints. Kuhn-Tucker conditions. Different
constant correlation model. Single index and Multi-Index models. (6 Lectures)
4. Robustification of Expected Returns and Risk Matrices. Worst Case Optimization. Matrix
Black Litterman Allocation. Active and excess return. Active weights.
law of active management.
Gambling examples. Additivity of IRs. (6 Lectures)
5. Active and Passive Bond portfolio management. Matching of
cash flows. Sensitivity to interest
rate risk sensitivity.
Risk Sensitive Asset Allocation. Maximum Principle, HJB Equation, Feedback using Riccati
Dynamic Portfolio Allocation. Performance Measurement. Effects of cash flows.
Rate of Return. Performance Attribution.
liabilities and incoming
rate risk. Duration. Portfolio construction to mitigate
coefficient. The fundamental
1. Francis and Kim. (2013). Modern Portfolio Theory, Wiley.
2. Grinold and Kahn. (1999). Active Portfolio Management, 2e, McGraw Hill.
3. Hubert (2012). Essential Mathematics for Market Risk Management, 2e, Wiley.
Technological Solutions for Rural India
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
The difficulties faced by rural and tribal areas offer a treasure of scientific and management
problems to address. The course is about
through technological advancement. To this end, the course would entail meeting and closely
interacting with people from different
rural and underprivileged areas over 2 to 3 days,
followed by classroom sessions.
innovative design to address some social
The course envisages:
1. Understanding the difficulties faced by underprivileged sections in rural India
2. Solutions to address these difficulties
3. Design innovative tools to address these problems.
4. Design of innovative methods to promote digital
literacy and cyber awareness
1. Design and development of methodology for cyber awareness in local languages
2. Development of a platform for the spread of information for enhancing farm production
3. Design of systems for diagnoses of early child health issues
4. Disseminate the solutions back to the villagers through Internet-based platforms.
5. Methodologies to educate villagers about cybercrimes.
• Design for sustainable technology for farming and familiarity with digitised land
Innovative design for educating farmers/villagers (2 Lectures)
• Design of e-platform for the spread of information for environment-friendly
farming/milk production (1 hour)
• Studying issues in children in rural India and their solutions through technology (2
• Design tools to connect them with the Internet, social media, online banking,
lockers, and explaining cybersecurity issues. (3 Lectures)
• Design of innovative tools to spread awareness about vaccinations (1 hour)
• Design of innovative tools to disseminate information in local Indian languages (1
• Design of tools for spreading the importance of environment
• Design of tools for the spread of Government's initiatives such as Bharatnet,
e-Panchayat, e-Health, e-Telemedicine (1 hour)
• Digital Technologies for Agricultural and Rural Development
in the Global South by
Information Communication Technology for Rural Development by L Manjunath
• Rural Development and Techno-Innovations by Chauhan, Bharti, and Bharti
Indias Rural Transformation and Development by T. G. Fraser
• Science and Technology for Rural Development by Devi and Reddy
• SWAYAM Prabha, SWAYAM Spoken Tutorial, Free and Open Source Software for
BHIM, e-Grathalaya, e-Panchayat, e-Health, e-Telemedicine, eBasta. e-Yantra
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Basic math skills
finance topics through this course,
topics to help everyone
This course will address many critical personal financial management
lifetime. The instructor will cover
learn prudent habits while in college and throughout
managing risk. The teaching pedagogy will prepare students to understand their current state
financial goals. The course introduces a real-world scenario
of money and work toward their
where financial decisions must be made, and financial planning concepts can be applied. The
students will be challenged to think critically about each scenario and decide how they might
resolve if ever faced with a similar situation.
This course will help students learn how to manage their money, grow income, reduce debt,
budget the smart way, invest money, and manage taxes instead of avoiding them.
The students would learn
1. How to create a wise budget
2. The step-by-step process for reducing loan and/or credit card debt.
3. How retirement works, how to save and invest
that helps increase savings and reduce expenses.
retirement, and how much one
needs to save and invest for a worry-free retirement.
4. How to manage personal taxes.
Introduction to Personal Finance (2 Lectures)
2. Saving Money for the future (2 Lectures)
3. Managing Debt (2 Lectures)
4. Fundamentals of Investing (2 Lectures)
5. Risk management
6. Personal Tax Management
in personal finance (2 Lectures)
Text Book: Reading material will be provided to students.
1. Robert T. Kiyosaki (1997). Rich Dad Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About
the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!, Plata Publishing; Second edition
2. Monika Halan (2018). Let's Talk Money: You've Worked Hard for It, Now Make It Work
for You, HarperBusiness; 1st edition
3. Pranjal Kamra (2021). Mint Your Money: An Easy Manual to Unlocking Your
Wealth-Creating Potential, Westland Business
through Ancient Indian
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
The course will help students:
1. To illustrate
and usefulness of ancient
Indian wisdom in
2. To demonstrate how alternative world views and paradigms of management could be
developed with the integration of spirituality in life
3. To provide the self-management skills to overcome various challenges in one's life
The students are expected to have the ability to:
1. Understand the meaning and value of teachings from ancient
Indian scriptures and
2. Know the usefulness of ancient wisdom in day-to-day life
3. Enhance their ability to manage self and working with tranquillity
Self-Management and Development - Lead Yourself (7 Lectures)
• Self-development by understanding the world within
• Role of a value system in self-management and development
• Shaping the personality and developing vital
Learnings and life lessons from Indian ethos
life skills through ancient wisdom
Integrating Spirituality in Life - Lessons from Indian Ethos (7 Lectures)
• Role of spirituality in developing leadership and management skills
• Relevance of ancient Indian wisdom for contemporary society
• Work ethics and values
• Case Studies from Indian scriptures and noble personalities
There is no Text Book per se. A course docket will be provided to students.
1. Bajpai, D. (2020), "Secret wisdom from ancient
2. Swami Chinmayananda (1996), "Holy Geeta", Central Chinmaya Mission Trust,
India," Treeshade Books, India.
3. Mahadevan, B. Writings on Gita & Management,
http://www .iimb.ernet. in/webpage/b-mahadevan/bhagavad-gita-amp-management
4. Mahadevan, B. (2013). "Spirituality in management: Sparks from the Anvil", 11MB
Management Review, 25 (2), pp. 91-103.
5. Govindaraja Setty, A.G., Subramanya, P. and Mahadevan, B. (2017). "Effect of Yoga
on adolescents' attitude towards violence", Journal of Human Values, 23(2), pp.
"The Upanishads" by Valerie Roebuck, 2004, Penguin Classics.
"Tripitaka of Buddhism" by Anil Kumar Singh, 2015, RK Publishers.
"Panchatantra" by Vishnu Sharma, translated by Satyakam Vidhyalankar, 2013,
Rajpal & Sons.
"Hitopdesh" by Narayan Pandit, 2012, Rajpal & Sons.
10. "The Jatakas: Birth Stories of the Bodhlsatta" by Sarah Shaw, 2006, Penguin
11. Narayanswamy, R. (2014).
"Leading from the inside: Self-transformation
Management and Business, pp. 311-326.
in Another State of Mind: Perspectives from Wisdom Traditions on
12. Narayanswamy, R. (2008).
"Why is spirituality
My experience of integrating management and spirituality,"
Values, 14 (2), pp. 115-128.
Journal of Human
13. Payne, S.G. (2010).
and spirituality: Business in the USA", The
Journal of Leadership in Public Services, 6 (2), 68 - 72.
14. Corner, PD (2008). ~'Workplace spirituality and business ethics:
Insights from an
15. Capra, F. (2004),
"Life and Leadership in Organizations: Chapter 4 in Hidden
Journal of Business Ethics, 85, pp, 377 - 389.
Connections", Anchor Books, New York.
16. Cappelli, P., Singh, H., Singh, J., Useem, M. (2010).
"The India Way: How India's top
business leaders are revolutionizing management," Harvard Business Review Press.
17. Sengupta, 5.5. (2011).
and its relationship with
Indian Journal of Industrial Relations, 47 (1), pp. 45-60.
of spiritual orientation
18. Sengupta, 5.5. (2016). Spiritual Leadership for Business Transformation
ISBN NO. 978-93-85355-07-3.
19. Ahmedabad Management Association (AMA), "Ancient
Indian Wisdom for
20. Chakraborty S.K. (1992),
"Management by Values," Oxford University Press, New
21. Geus, A. (1997),
"The Life Span of a Company: Chapter 1 in The Living Company",
Nicholas Brealey Publishing,
London, pp. 7-19.
Subiect 2: •Modifications
and editing changes in Course outlines as
per the discussion held on 16 April 2021 in the Area Chairs Meeting
and subsequent All faculty meetings and SFBs held until
In the approved MBA curriculum document (table 5 in the document and Annexure 1 here),
three of the
all the approved elective course titles were two and one credit. Amongst
titles in the
containing one-page outlines missed out on
Those courses are (1) Corporate Entrepreneurship, (2) Incubation
Readiness and Planning, and (3) Digital Platform Innovation (table 3 below). A copy of the
same is annexed in Annexure -2a, 2b and 2c, respectively. As per the approved limit, all of
these outlines carry a two-credit weightage. We want to add the same credit limit (2 credits)
to the outlines.
2. Two other elective courses, (1) Leading High-Performance Teams and (2) Incentives and
Performance, annexed in Annexure-3a and 3b respectively, were the approved titles for two
credits (annexed in Annexure 3). However,
the outlines specified them as one-credit
courses. In the recent discussions,
the course instructor & the area faculty, owing to the
content of the courses, desired to
(table 3 below).
Table 3: Correction required in Credit components for selected elective courses
Area of Elective
Incubation Readiness and
Digital Platform Innovation
Incentives and Performance
will be included once
3. In one of the course outlines titled
there were errors in the content
(interchange of content with some other course). A copy of the same is annexed in Annexure
is annexed as
-4a. The correct version of the course outline of Fixed Income Securities
Annexure-4b for your kind perusal and approval. Also, we seek your approval of the title of
this course as mentioned in Annexure-4b (Fixed Income Securities). The course title in the
Annexure-4c. However, as shared by the area faculty, the 'Derivatives'
is covered in
another course titled "Financial Derivatives". Therefore, area faculty would like to retain the
title distinctively. For expert comments & action taken by faculty, see Table 4.
"Fixed Income Securities & Derivatives",
4. In a course titled
there were errors in the content (interchange of
content with some other course). A copy of the same is annexed in Annexure -5a. The correct
version of the course outline of Supply Chain Analytics is annexed as Annexure-5b for your
kind perusal and approval. For expert comments & action taken by faculty, see Table 4.
In a course titled
the course outline. A copy of the current outline and the revised outline are annexed in
Annexure -6a and 6b. For expert comments & action taken by faculty, see Table 4.
the area faculty requested some modifications
6. The finance area proposed that
and "Capital Market Theory" (Annexure 13aa) has an
. Therefore these two courses have been combined and proposed to be considered
(outline in Annexure 13b). For expert comments &
the Finance MBA-elective
course titled "Banking
action taken by faculty, see Table 4.
In the approved MBA curriculum (Table 5), a course in the finance area elective was titled as
Large Project Financing (annexed in Annexure 15a). The finance area chair proposed the
to be changed to
revision in the course outline
for BTech students. The
revised outline of the same is attached for approval as Annexure 15b. For expert comments &
action taken by faculty, see Table 4.
and the title. The title is proposed
to make the course relevant
8. The operations area, via mail, sent on the 30 May 2021, ~V",,","""
(the modified part
comments & action taken by faculty, see Table 4.
is highlighted with yellow)
for the current 2nd year batch of students (2021-22)
(Annexure 16). For expert
Table 4: Comments from Experts for courses that went through minor & major title and
(under subject 4, serial no. 3-8)
N the course
Name of Expert
Prof. Preetam Basu,
Prof. Manoj Kumar
IITKGP & Director,
Prof. Preetam Basu,
Prof. Manoj Kumar
Prof. Preetam Basu,
Prof. Manoj Kumar
The course outline looks fine
Thank you for your response.
subject name be decision Analytics for
hope you may like it
The title of the outlines is very fine.
Contents are also fine
The topics that will rule the area of
Operations Research in the future may be
considered (at least outlines).
(a) Fuzzy set, Rough set and their
are mentioned in some places).
(though 'risk and uncertainty
(b) Heuristic techniques and their
(under separate heading).
Intelligence along with
Artificial Neural Networks.
All the advanced Operations Research
topics are covered in this course.
So, we named it Advanced OR
incorporate the suggested
Thank you for your advice.
changes as it is not feasible to cover these
topics within the time limit.
We will consider these topics in any of the
upcoming relevant courses.
The course outline looks fine
Thank you for your response.
Perfectly chosen topics
The title of the outlines is very fine.
Contents are also fine
"Quantitative Models" outlines.
is in "Operations
and "Operations Management"
Same Headlines/topic names should
not be repeated.
Thank you for your response.
We have removed the topic of linear
programming from this course.
The course outline looks fine
Thank you for your response.
Perfectly_ chosen topics
Thank you for your response.
The title of the outlines is very fine.
Contents are also fine
This course is well defined, and the contents
are appropriate. However, I will suggest
giving the students an outline of the existing
Bond Market and some ideas about the
different Bond Indices at the beginning of
the contents. Otherwise,
is quite appropriate.
1. This course is very heavily loaded, and
the allocated timing is very little to do
justice to the proposed course. Students
opting for this elective will never have
into both areas when
merging two stand-alone elective courses
the course coverage
Thank you for your response.
Existing Bond Market and discussion on
bond indices is added
This course is an introductory course on
money, banking and fmance. The finance
the concerns of the
expert on the course coverage. Many
topics discussed in the comments are
covered in other electives. Indian Banking
for a student who opts for such
into one. 2.the proposed course is not well
structured. The proposed contents may not
an elective. Instead, I would suggest
offering two different electives by
bifurcating the proposed one with essential
contents, and the students may be given a
chance to opt for anyone elective as per
The proposed course is appropriately
designed. However, various financial
instruments need to be
incorporated and focussed at appropriate
places, preferably before analysing project
risks. An entrepreneur needs to be well
conversant with these basic inputs.
system is covered in an elective on Indian
Financial System. Key concepts on
Banks, e.g. Asset Liability Management,
capital market, DIIs, commercial banks &
NBFCs, Stock exchanges, public deposits,
internal financing etc. apart from different
types of financial services like leasing &
factoring, mutual funds, venture capital,
underwriting services etc. are covered in
the elective on Management of Banks and
Institutions and Indian Financial
System. The outline is restructured, and
the topics like Economic Analyses of
Financial Regulation and Structure and
Competition of banking as been removed.
instruments added to
9. Few changes in the L- T-P structure of the courses were recommended (during the SFB held
on 28 May 2021). Those are as follows:
the course titled Applied Economic Analysis,
the course titled High-Frequency Finance & News
the L-T-P was earlier structured as 2-0-0 [2], the same is proposed
In the area of Economics,
L- T-P was earlier structured as 1.-0-0.5-0 [2]. The same is proposed to be
changed to 1-0-2 [2]
the L- T-P was
In the area of Strategy, the course titled Analytics Consulting,
earlier structured as 1-0-1-0 [2]. The same is proposed to be changed to 1-0-2 [2]
In the area of Marketing,
the course titled Social Media Analy_!ics, the L-T-P
was earlier structured as 1-0-1 [2], the same is proposed to be changed to
In the area of Finance,
to be changed to 1-0-2 [2]
In the area of Finance,
earlier structured as 2-0-0 [2], the same is proposed to be changed to 1-0-2 [2]
In the area of Finance,
the course titled Reuters Bloomberg, Terminal
the L-T-P was earlier structured as 2-0-0 [2], the same is proposed
to be changed to 0-0-4 [2]
In the area of Finance,
the L-T-P was
earlier structured as 2-0-0 [2], the same is proposed to be changed to 1-0-2 [2]
In the area of Cyber Security,
was earlier structured as 2-0-1 [3]. The same is proposed to be changed to
the course titled Computational Finance,
the course titled Financial Analy'!ics,
the course titled Com~uter Forensic,
the L- T-P was
Ethics in Practice
of Banks &
Starting up New
n and R&D
Public Policy and
Leading the Family
Marketing for High
Tech & Innovation
Trends in FinTech
Guided by a
which fit the
guidance of a
Leading the Family
Business Plan I &11
IPR& Legal Issues
Culture of Tech
Selected Topics in
Selected Topics in
Selected Topics in
language Courses (German / French / Spanish / Chinese)
Course-EP19: Corporate Entrepreneurship feE)
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
MBA 2nd Year
business models as also various other macroeconomic
to the imperative of
within large organizations
upheavals are the order of the day
in the current
times when novel
and group behaviour
to bring alive the nature of
resistance and challenge that
typically faces in organizations.
Develop an appreciation
the challenge that a 'Corporate Entrepreneur'
faces than an
1. Learn the approaches and frameworks
intrapreneur will get
inputs on managing self, peers and superiors as (s}he navigates the existing
routines and structures towards pursuing a radical
idea, often covertly.
3. Develop an understanding
of how to identify and employ appropriate
resources towards a new
Introduction: The Imperative, Complexity and Opportunity
of corporate entrepreneurship
of CE; Corporate vs Start-up entrepreneurship;
Locating the Entrepreneur inside:
organizations, Sources of creativity blocks; The intrapreneur's
Identity and Methods - Who is an intrapreneur?;
Balancing between the immediate and evolutionary concerns: How do some executives navigate
established systems to pursue CE? Role of middle management
CE:The role of Leadership, structure and culture - The question of structure; Managing the architecture
and senior management
in pursuing CE
culture of a CE friendly organization
Implementation - Generating creative ideas, exploiting
CE:From Idea to
innovation; Facilitating and sustaining entrepreneurial
Innovation and Strategy in Large Organizations
Author: Paul Burns: Palgrave Macmillan
Who says Elephant can't dance: How I turned around IBM
MBA Master Class - Corporate Entrepreneurship
with Professor Veronique Bouchard
Incubation Readiness and Planning
Incubation Readiness and Planning
School of Management
On successful completion
of this course, students will be able to:
Identify a potential
2. Determine a useful
resource strategy for building a new venture;
personal or entrepreneurial
and evaluate it through a process of exploration,
3. Review and discuss contemporary
by various stakeholders
within an entrepreneurial
ecosystem, describing critical elements for a new entrepreneurial
business idea for feedback from entrepreneurs,
and practice of new entrepreneurial
industry experts, and/or
planning to assess and present viability
Evaluate teams to establish criteria that underpin the different
phases of a balanced and effective successful
To build skills, capabilities
to help build a young startup or
idea into a
To develop an understanding
essentials of effective
connect with industry experts and investors, and to build strong mentoring
Utilizing design thinking for creating my preferred future: Start where you are: Dysfunctional
Reframe to build a compass
beliefs; Problem finding
Project managing and planning for my startup: Project Design; Make a flexible plan
Experimentation and customer focus: Learning organisation;
Customer experience design; Reduction of
Maximizing marketing and digital marketing strategies: Know your audience; Product-Market
Leading myself and my entrepreneurial
team: Fledgling team; Building the team out: visionarv. Hacker; Hustler;
Developing a viable business model: Relationship
you and your customer; Market
Resourcing my venture: The product
is only a part of what you sell; Turning your prototype into a stable product;
Changing resource requirements
during early-stage development
Value stream: Working towards sustain ability and competitive advantage: Articulating
the value stream; Value
Planning for venture growth: Growth phases; Single/multiple
funnels; Scaling a profitable
Text Book and Readings
1. Zero to One: Notes on Startups, or How the Build the Future by Peter Thiel
Innovation and Entrepreneurship:
The Innovator's Solution: Creating and Sustaining Successful Growth by Clayton M Christensen
Practice and Principles by Peter F Drucker
Course-EP16: Digital platform innovation
Digital platform innovation
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Structure {L-T-P-D[C]} ~
MBA Second Year
1. Linking the dynamics of digital platforms
(mostly large-size ones) and their shared
and scope of different
resources, and the ecosystem in general.
1. To learn about the essentials of digital platforms and their business models.
2. To understand the issues concerning scale-up,
internationalization, and macro & micro
requirements for a new venture in the digital innovation platform.
3. To help students develop their ideas towards digital platforms and potential innovation.
factors in the digital platform innovation, emergence of AI and shared
Introduction to digital platform innovation
Shared Economy: traditional shared space innovation vis app-based digital platform innovations,
evolution, how it spans across different domains of human life and business.
Economic and technological
Business Models for shared economies in digital platforms: Competition in the digital platform space,
need for innovation, big-ticket investment, Crowdsourcing as a source of funding for digital platforms,
Enterprising, Managing and leading: product and service innovation in the digital space.
Challenges in the field of digital platform innovation, Shared digital platform and the future of
1) Parker, G. G., Van Alstyne, M. W., & Choudary, S. P.(2016). Platform Revolution:
How Networked Markets Are Transforming the Economy? and How to Make
Them Workfor You. WWNorton & Company.
2} HBS and Ivey Case studies.
1} Gawer, A" ed. (2009): Platforms, Markets and Innovation. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
2} Tiwana, A. (2013). Platform ecosystems: Aligning architecture. governance, and
3) Utterback, J. {1994}. Mastering the dynamics of innovation: How companies can seize
in the face of technological change. The University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign's Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Historical Research
Reference in Entrepreneurship.
Guided by a
which fit the
guidance of a
Track-l Functional Specialization (all 2 credit course)
Future of Work
Ethics in Practice
High Tech &
of Banks &
Starting up New
n and R&D
Public Policy and
Leading the Family
Marketing for High
Tech & Innovation
Trends in FinTech
Leading the Family
Innovation & Digital
Business Plan I &11
IPR& Legal Issues
Culture of Tech
Leading High Performance Teams
Leading High Performance Teams
Structure (L-T-P [C])
MBA 2nd Year
Managing Human Capital; Organizational Behavior
To gain the skills to diagnose issues such as conflicts, groupthink
and lack of commitment
in teams and
1. To equip students with the ability to create the ground rules and structure
needed to set a team up for
Setting Team Foundations: Defining Team Success; Process of Teamwork; Process of
Team Beginnings; Cooperation & Competition;
Team Organization and Structure
Leading Teams: Leadership Qualities;
Forming Teams; Leading Teams; Diagnosing Team Problems;
Managing Common Team Types
Analyzing Team Performance
Overcoming Leadership Issues
1. Hanlan, M., 2004. High performance teams: How to make them work. Greenwood Publishing Group.
Levi, Daniel. 2014. Group Dynamics for Teams {5th Edition}. Los Angeles, California: Sage Publications.
de Rond, M., 2012. There is an I in Team: what elite athletes and coaches really know about high
performance. Harvard Business Press.
2. Heineman Jr, B.W., 2008. High performance with high integrity. Harvard Business Press.
Online Course Material
1. Harvard ManageMentor:
Team Creation. Harvard Business Publishing.
2. Harvard ManageMentor:
Team Management. Harvard Business Publishing.
Incentives and Performance
Incentives and Performance
MBA 2nd Year
Managing Human Capital
1. To discuss how to use behavioural economics tools to solve practical personnel problems that affect
1. Toenable students to think systematically and strategically about employee productivity.
2. To equip students with strategies to maintain and augment employee performance.
Theories of Human Performance
• Motivational and Emotional Dynamic of Performance
Conventional Approaches: Rewards, Monetary Incentives, Promotions
The advent of Behavioral Economics
New Age Tools: Norms; Nugdes; Non-Monetary Incentives; Games
Biological and Social-Cultural Constraints to Performance
1. Williams, R. S. 2002) Managing employee performance: Design and implementation
2. Diamond, P., & Vartiainen, H.
(Eds.). 2012. Behavioral
and its applications. Princeton
1. Girotra, K. and Netessine, 5., 2014. The risk-driven business model: Four questions that will define your
company. Harvard Business Press.
2. Hope, J. and Fraser, R., 2003. Beyond budgeting: how managers
can break free from the annual
performance trap. Harvard Business Press.
Online Course Material
Fixed Income Securities
Fixed Income Securities
Structure (L-T-P-D [C])
MBA 2nd Year
Corporate Finance I, Corporate Finance II and
Explain the basic theory in digital economics,
including network effects, value creation models, digital
business models and market modeling.
how the digital economy influences societies,
regulations, privacy, strategy,
and financial operations.
To get broad knowledge in digital economics and how the digital economy impacts its surroundings.
To perform network effect analysis of a value network and construct a business model.
The Digital Economy, The Productivity Paradox,
ICT, Growth and Productivity
and the Transition
to Fiber, The Relations between
Network Operators on the Internet: Peering, Transit, and Net Neutrality
Network Effects and Standards: Network Effects, Standard Wars
The Economics of Multi-Sided Platforms, Economics of Platforms: The Basics, Reseller vs Platform: The
Choice of Business Model
Digital Markets: Competition
between E-retailers and Brick & Mortars, Business Models of Digital Goods
Personal Data, Price Discrimination
and Privacy: Personal Data and Price Discrimination,
The Cost of
Privacy and the Privacy Paradox
Experience Goods, Online Reviews and Recommender Systems: Search Goods and Experience Goods,
Online Reviews and Recommender Systems
in the ICT Sector: The Effect of Digitization
Innovation: Crowdsourcing and Crowdfunding
Veronesi, P.ed., 2016. Handbook affixed-income
Tuckman, B. and Serrat, A., 2011. Fixed income securities:
Wiley & Sons.
securities. John Wiley & Sons.
tools for today's markets (Vol. 621). John
Fixed Income Securities
School of Management
Master of Business Administration
Corporate Finance I, Money, Banking and Financial
to provide a description
and analysis of fixed income securities.
of fixed income securities markets;
of fixed income
areas of (i) the institutions,
the yields of fixed income portfolios. Class lectures will focus on the theoretical
and will use currently offered fixed interest products
(iii) the analysis of interest
to illustrate the theories.
and how to use these
rates and term structure;
1. Identify and distinguish between the different
types of fixed income securities;
how to apply derivative
to hedge the risks and enhance
returns of fixed income securities;
3. Make use of analytic tools in bond portfolio management
4. Identify various sources of credit risk and apply structural models to estimate
5. Critically evaluate
related to fixed income securities and derivatives.
Existing Bond Market, bond indices
of Interest Rates and Interest Rate Models
Bond Price Volatility
Hedging and Interest Rate-Related Derivative Securities
Bonds with Embedded Options
Fabozzi, F., Bond Markets, Analysis and Strategies,
7th edition, Prentice-Hall, 2010.
Other Reference Books:
Choudry, M., Fixed Income Markets:
Tuckman, B., Fixed Income Securities,
Instruments, Applications, Mathematics, Wiley, 2004.
latest edition, Wiley
Guided by a
which fit the
guidance of a
Track-1 Functional Specialization (all 2 credit course)
People Analytics .
High Tech &
Future of Work
Ethics in Practice
of Banks &
Starting up New
n and R&D
Public Policy and
Leading the Family
Marketing for High
Tech & Innovation
Trends in FinTech
Leading the Family
Innovation & Digital
Business Plan I &11
IPR& Legal Issues
Culture of Tech
Course-OP3: Supply Chain An-alytics
MBA 2nd Year
Basics of Operations Management
Structure (L-T-P- D [C])
1. Understand the importance
tools, models and processes
of project management
industries and businesses and to apply specific
Identify and Analyse factors for successful Projects, as well as reasons for
studies in the context of effective Risk Management.
failure based on specific case
Understand the structure of financial statements
and Balance Sheet.
relating to Profit and Loss statement, Cash Flow Statement
1. Understand project characteristics
and various stages of a project
Analyze the learning and understand techniques for Project planning, scheduling and Execution Control.
Understand the contract management, Project Procurement, Service level Agreements and productivity
Basics of Project Management:
Knowledge Areas and Processes, The Project Life Cycle, The
Impact of Delays in Project Completions, Project Management Principles
and Selection: Project
Initiation, Pre-Feasibility Study,
Feasibility Studies, Project Break-even point
Project Planning: Need of Project Planning, Project Life Cycle, Roles, Responsibility and Team Work, Project
Planning Process, Work Breakdown Structure
and Issues: Concept of Organisational
Structure, Roles and Responsibilities
Project Leader, Relationship between Project Manager and Line Manager, Team Management
PERT and CPM: Development
of Project Network, Time Estimation, Determination
of the Critical Path, PERT
Model, Measures of variability, CPM Model, Network Cost System
in Projects: Resource Allocation, Scheduling, Project Cost Estimate and Budgets,
Project Risk and quality Management: Role of Risk Management
in Overall Project Management,
Risk Management, Risk Identification, Risk Analysis, Reducing Risks, Quality Concepts, Value Engineering
System: Project Management
System {PM IS), Planning of
PMIS, Design of PMIS
Purchasing and Contracting for Projects: Purchase Cycle, Contract Management, Procurement Process
Project Performance: Measurement,
Evaluation Benefits and Challenges of Performance Measurement
the Projects, Execution, Project Control Process, Purpose of Project Execution and
Control, Project Termination
Kerzner, H. 2017. Project management:
Wiley & Sons.
a systems approach to planning~ scheduling~ and controlling.
Larson, E.W. and Gray,
c.F. 2018. Project management
process, Seventh Edition,
1. Raworth, K. 2017. Doughnut Economics, Seven ways to think like a zi: Century Economist, Random House.
Russel, J.A. 2017. A brief guide to Business Ciassics, Harvard Business Review.
Robinson Marr, B. 2014. 25 Need to Know Key Performance indicators. Pearson.
Supply Chain Analytics
School of Management &
1. Understand the importance
the basics of Supply Chain Analytics and
2. Analyze the level of uncertainty
associated with the supply of products and
services to targeted customer segments and justify the choice of a supply chain
strategy and its fit with competitive strategy.
1. Explain the importance of supply analytics and applications.
2. Handle the available business information/data more efficiently.
3. Develop data-driven rules to manage volatility and plan inventory flow of goods
to Supply Chain Analytics: Definition,
trends in Supply Chain Analytics
relevance and scope Supply
Overview of Supply Chain Models and Modelling Systems: Descriptive models,
Optimization modes, Off-the-shelf modelling system (SLIM), Supply chain operations
(SCOR), The network KEIRETSU, Nature-Inspired
Supply Chain Management
Application of Supply Chain Models: A Calibration Model Establishes Position and
Performance Gap, Models for Purchasing, Procurement,
and Strategic Sourcing,
Logistics Models from Manufacturing
to Accepted Delivery, Models for Forecasting,
Demand Management, and Capacity Planning, Models for Order Management and
Inventory Management' Models for Sales and Operations Planning, Advanced Planning
and Scheduling Models, Models for Supplier Relationship Management, Models for
Manufacturing, Collaborative Planning, Forecasting, and Replenishment Models
1. Simchi-Levi, D., Kaminsky, P., Simchi-Levi, E., & Shankar, R. (2008). Designing
and managing the supply chain: concepts, strategies and case studies. Tata
2. Chopra, S., Meindl, P., & Kalra, D. V. (2013). Supply chain management:
strategy, planning, and operation (Vol. 232). Boston, MA: Pearson.
Structure {L-T-P-D [C]}
MBA 1st Year
Introduce demand and inventory management
Introduce Project Management
and work scheduling
Explain the need and tools for quality management
Participants will be able to learn the role of operations management
in all the management
Participants will get to learn the emerging approaches on project management and quality control
Participants would be able to gain a working understanding
of facility and plant management
Time Series Analysis; Simple Moving Average; Weightage Moving Average;
and Seasonal Models;
Forecast Errors; Qualitative
fixed order quantity model, Fixed time period model;
Inventory Costs; EOQ; Re-Order
Scheduling: Single Machine Scheduling; Flow Shop Scheduling; Job Shop Scheduling
Types of Projects; CPM; PERT; Crashing; Project Management Models; Project
Materials Requirement Planning: Bills of Materials; MRP; Lot Size; Capacity Requirement Planning
Aggregate Production Planning: Aggregate Planning Decisions; Aggregate Planning Strategies; Aggregate
Planning Methods; Master Production Schedule; Cut-and-Fit Methods.
Facility Location and Layout: Factors affecting plant
location; Single facility plant
location problem; Plant
layout classifications; Layout designing approaches.
TQM: TQM; Tools for Quality Management;
Benchmarking; Six Sigma; Quality Circles; Statistical Process
1. Meredith, LR. and Shafer, S.M., 2019. Operations and supply chain management/or
2. Hugos, M.H., 2018. Essentials 0/ supply chain management.
3. Mangan, J. and Lalwani, CC, 2016. Global
logistics and supply chain management.
John Wiley & Sons.
John Wiley & Sons.
Structure (L-T-P [C])
MBA 1st Year
Introduce concepts of the management of business processes and how
operations provide a competitive advantage in the marketplace
Introduce the issues related to designing and managing operations such as
project management, strategic capacity planning, process analysis, production
process, facility layouts, etc.
Introduce the supply chain and associated decisions in business environments
1. Demonstrate comprehension of the business operations and their role within an
processes and how to improve.
factors in designing, managing, and controlling business
3. Demonstrate understanding of the relationship of the organizations within the
supply chain and the role of planning,
information sharing, and forecasting
Operations Management, Competitiveness
and operations strategy,
Designing Operations: Product and process design,
Quality management, work design and measurement
location and layout decisions,
aggregate planning and master scheduling, MRPand ERP,JIT and lean operations
Quantitative Modules: Decision modeling, Queuing model
1. Stevenson W J,
(2018), Operations Management,
13th Edition, McGraw Hill
2. Heizer J., (2001), Operations Management, 10th Edition, Pearson Education
3. Jacobs F.R., (2014), Operations and supply chain management,
McGraw Hill Education.
Financial Accounting and Reporting
School of Management and Entrepreneurship
1. This course aims to help prospective consumers of corporate financial
such as managers, stockholders,
financial analysts, and creditors, about accounting
2. The course focuses on understanding
financing transactions and operating activities are recorded in the
the income statement, balance sheet, and
how economic events
three main financial statements (i.e.,
statement of cash flows).
1. Discover how balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements are
developed and how each interacts.
2. Evaluate the financial health of a business using financial statements
3. Students will develop the technical skills needed to analyze corporate financial
statements and disclosures for financial analysis.
Unit 1- Financial Accounting (4 Lectures)
Unit 2- Accounting Concepts, Prlnciples, Bases and Policies (4 Lectures)
Unit 3- Double Entry Accounting (4 Lectures)
Unit 4- Ledgers (2 Lectures)
Unit 5-Trial Balance (3 Lectures)
Unit 6- Final Accounts (4 Lectures)
Unit 7- Cash Flow Analysis (3 Lectures)
Unit 8- Financial Statement Analysis (4 Lectures)
1. T. Horngren Charles, L. Sundern Gary, A. Elliott John, R. Philbrick Dann. (2017).
Introduction to Financial Accounting, Pearson Education; Eleventh edition
1. Ambrish Gupta. (2018). Financial Accounting for Management: An Analytical
Perspective, Pearson Education; Sixth edition
Cost and Management Accounting
School of Management and Entrepreneurship
This course covers managerial accounting and cost management practices that can be
strategically applied across the various functions of a business organization to improve
organizational performance. The course emphasizes the methods available to measure and
evaluate costs for decision-making and performance evaluation purposes.
This course will help students use accounting information for managing manufacturing and
service operations, controlling costs, making strategic decisions, and going into general
consulting or thinking of starting their businesses.
Unit 1- Introduction to Management Accounting (3 Lectures)
Unit 2-Understanding Cost (2 Lectures)
Unit 3- Marginal Costing and Break-Even Analysis (3 Lectures)
Unit 4- Decisions Involving Alternative Choices (2 Lectures)
Unit 5- Budgetary Control (2 Lectures)
Unit 6- Standard Costing (2 Lectures)
1. James Jiambalvo (2018). Managerial Accounting, Wiley
Course Title Banking and Financial Markets
MBA 2nd Year
Prerequisite Corporate Finance I and Corporate Finance
1. The course will help students to acquire a breadth of knowledge of
segments in financial markets.
Introduce the functioning of Banking Structure
1. Students will develop
the global currency, bond,
the linkages and the
2. Finance and Banking relationship
1. An overview of the Financial System, Money (3 Lectures)
2. Understanding Interest
3. The stock market, The theory of rational expectations, and the efficient market
rates and their behaviour (3 Lectures)
hypothesis (3 Lectures)
4. An economic analysis of the financial structure (4 Lectures)
5. Financial Crises in advanced economies, Financial Crises in emerging economies (4
6. Banking and Management of Financial Institutions (3 Lectures)
7. Economic Analyses of Financial Regulation (4 Lectures)
8. Banking Industry: Structure and Competition (4 Lectures)
1. Mishkin, F.S. 2019. The economics of Money, Banking and Financial Markets. 10th
edition. Pearson India.
2. Mishkin, F. and Eakins, S. 2017. Financial Markets and Institutions.
Capital Marl<et Theory
School of Management
Structure (L-T-P-D [C])
Master of Business Administration
Corporate Finance I and Corporate Finance II
1. The course examines
quantitative models used in securities
2. This course aims to develop a framework
how to construct
and price financial
assets. The discussion takes the perspective
of a typical
investor, an investment manager, or an institutional
1. The students will be able to answer
in theory and how we can achieve such a mix in practice.
choice, e.g. what constitutes
a good mix of
Overview of the course, review of key concepts
Portfolio choice: Mean-variance
Investing for the long-run,
Investing over the life-cycle
Asset pricing: CAPM and discounting
factor models, Equity factor models, Bond pricing and
investment, Corporate and municipal bonds, Anomalies and deviations (or: beating the market)
Delegated investing: Mutual
evaluation, Hedge funds, Practical
issues fi fees,
Booth, L., Cleary, W.S. and Rakita,
to Corporate Finance, 4th edition, John Wiley &
2. Copeland, T. E. , Weston, J. F. , and Shastri, K. (2004). Financial Theory and Corporate Policy, 4th edition,
Course Title Money, Banking and Financial Markets
Structure (L- T-P [CD 2-0-0 [2]
MBA 2nd Year
1. The course will help students
to acquire a breadth of knowledge of the various segments in
Introduce the functioning of Banking and fmancial market structure
1. Students will develop an in-depth understanding of the linkages and the interconnected nature
of the global currency, bond, commodity and equity markets.
2. Finance and Banking relationship
1. An overview of the Financial System, Money (4 Lectures)
2. Understanding Interest rates and their behaviour (3 Lectures)
3. Central Banks and the Federal Reserve System (3 Lectures)
4. The Money Supply Process (3 Lectures)
5. The stock market, The theory of rational expectations, and the efficient market hypothesis
6. An economic analysis of the fmancial structure and regulation (5 Lectures)
7. Financial Crises in advanced economies, Financial Crises in emerging economies (3 Lectures)
8. Banking and Management of Financial Institutions (3 Lectures)
1. Mishkin, F.S. 2019. The economics of Money, Banking and Financial Markets. 10th edition.
2. Mishkin, F. and Eakins, S. 2017. Financial Markets and Institutions. 8th edition.
which fit the
guidance of a
Starting up New
n and R&D
Public Policy and
leading the Family
Marketing for High
Tech & Innovation
Trends in FinTech
Business Plan I &11
of Banks &
leading the Family
IPR& Legal Issues
Future of Work
Ethics in Practice
Culture of Tech
Selected Topics in
Selected Topics in
Selected Topics in
language Courses (German / French / Spanish / Chinese)
and Project Finance
Structure (L-T-P [CD
M.B.A. 2nd Year
1. The objective
is to enable
students with various
and Project Finance.
2. The course addresses
the rationale for project
financing and examines project risk analysis,
financing options, and legal/regulatory/industry
3. The course also addresses cash-flow modelling concepts for Project Finance but will not engage in
the mechanics of modelling techniques.
Identification, Planning and Selection; Project Life-Cycle; Assessment and Appraisal of
Promoters and Management, Financial appraisal
2. Create value through project and infrastructure finance. (3 Lectures)
3. Understand project versus corporate finance. (3 Lectures)
4. Finance, value and structure large-scale infrastructure projects.
5. Analyze project risks and rewards.
6. Optimally restructure projects in distress. (4 Lectures)
7. Understand public-private partnerships
Investigate project finance in emerging markets. (3 Lectures)
(PPP) and private finance initiatives (PFI). (4 Lectures)
1. Chandra, P. 2019. Projects: Planning, Analysis, Selection, Financing,
Implementation and Review.
2. Gatti, S. 2018. Project Finance in Theory and Practice. Academic Press.
Advanced Operation Research
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
1. To advance their
2. Equip students
knowledge of OR techniques
to judge the applicability
of methods for given problems, and
answer questions as to why two seemingly similar problems differ dramatically
1. A thorough
techniques and theory behind
2. An advanced appreciation of the use of a mathematical model
and analyse a complex situation.
An advanced repertoire of problem-solving
is both analytical and
Goal Programming: Goal Programming ApP'roach for Multi-objective
(Added). (3 Lectures)
Principle of Optimality, Concepts of state and stage,
Solution of Discrete Problems through Backward Dynamic Programming, Continuous
and Multi-stage Dynamic programming
problems, Stochastic Dynamic Programming
Stochastic Processes: Description of state, Transition
Problems, Policy Improvement Scheme.
First passage time,
probability matrix, Ergodic
etc., Markov Decision Process, Markov Decision
Queueing Theory: Markovian
Queues, Queuing Networks.
1. Ravindran, A., Phillips, D. T., & Solberg,
principles and practice.
2. Taha H A., (2017), Operations Research: An Introduction,
8th Edition, Pearson
3. Hiller F 5., (2015),
to Operations Research, 10th Edition, McGraw
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.2.5 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
., Offered for
Principles of Fluorescence
Spectroscopy and Imaging
f. The course is intended for individuals wishing an in-depth introduction
to the principles of
fluorescence spectroscopy and it's applications.
It will also give basic knowledge of single-molecule
fluorescence imaging technology
r:»; learning Outcomes
1. Students will understand the importance of fluorescence imaging as a tool
to solve a diverse
range of problems in chemistry and biology.
2. They will have an understanding
3. Students will have an understanding
dynamics in nano to femto-second
single molecule imaging technology.
Lifetime: Fluorescence lifetimes and Quantum yields, Fluorophores,
Principle and applications of TCSPC,
Excited State Processes: Solvent effect of lifetime, Solvation dynamics, Quenching of Fluorescence,
Fluorescence Anisotropy, Excimer/exciplex,
FRET, Proton transfer, Electron transfer
Single molecule spectroscopy: Single-molecule
and applications of smFRET, Multiphoton Excitation and Microscopy, Fluorescence lifetime imaging
(FILM), Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy
Data analysis: Hidden Markov model (14 lectures)
(FCS), Raster Image Correlation Spectroscopy
fluorescence, Confocal and TIRF microscopy, Principle
1. Lakowicz, J. R. (2006) Principles of Fluorescence Spectroscopy,
2. Murphy, D.B., and Devidson, M. W., (2001), Fundamentals
3rd Edition, Springer
of Light Microscopy and Electronic
Imaging, 2nd Edition, Wiley-Blackwell
1. Valeur, B. (2001) Molecular Fluorescence: Principles and Applications,
2. Smith, A. ;Gell, C. and Brockwell, D. (2006) Handbook of Single Molecule Fluorescence
2nd Ed. Wiley-VCH
Spectroscopy, Oxford University Press
Online Course material:
1. Sen, P., Basics of Fluorescence Spectroscopy, NPTEL Course Material, Department
of Technology Kanpur https:llnptel.ac.in/coursesI104104084/
2. Dutta, A. Ultrafast Laser Spectroscopy, NPTEL Course Material, Department of Chemistry,
Institute of Technology Bombay https:/Inptel.ac.in/courses/104/101/104101122/
Spectroscopy and Imaging
1. The course is intended for individuals wishing an advanced knowledge of fluorescence
spectroscopy and its applications.
2. This course will also introduce single-molecule fluorescence spectroscopy
1. Students will understand the basic principle of ultrafast
fluorescence spectroscopy and its
application to determine molecular dynamics in nano to femto-second time scale.
2. Students will have an understanding of advanced single molecule imaging technology,
application, practical experiments and image analysis.
Introduction to Time-resolved Fluorescence Spectroscopy: Light-matter
spectroscopy, Steady state spectra, spectrophotometer, How to record absorption and emission
spectra, Excited state ultrafast processes, Stimulated emission, Pulsed laser vs CW-Iaser, Mode
locking for femtosecond pulse, Cavity dumping, Ti-Shapphire Laser, Diode laser, Second-harmonic
generation (SHG) and multiphoton excitation (12 lectures)
Ultrafast Fluorescence Spectroscopy: Fluorescence lifetime or decay time,
instrumentation and application of TCSPC, Solvent and temperature effect of lifetime, Dynamics of
solvent and spectral relaxation, Time-domain life-time measurement, Fluorescence Anisotropy,
Femtosecond up-conversion spectroscopy, Solvation dynamics, Proton transfer dynamics (14
Single-Molecule Spectroscopy and Imaging experiments: Principle of Microscopy: TIRF, Confocal and
lattice light-sheet, Multiphoton Excitation Microscopy, Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy (FCS),
Fluorescence Cross-Correlation spectroscopy (FCCS), Scanning FCS, Principle of Single Molecule
Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer (smFRET), Fluorescence lifetime imaging (FILM), Application
of FCS and smFRET,2-photon excitation time-resolved confocal microscope, Multi-colour
single-molecule tracking and Image analysis by Origin Pro and ImageJ, Lab experiment
imaging and data analysis by Hidden Markov model (16 lectures).
1. Lakowicz, J. R. (2006) Principles of Fluorescence Spectroscopy, 3rd Edition, Springer
2. Murphy, D.B., and Devidson, M. W., (2001), Fundamentals of Light Microscopy and Electronic
Imaging, 2nd Edition, Wiley-Blackwell
1. Valeur, B. (2001) Molecular Fluorescence: Principles and Applications, 2nd Ed. Wiley-VCH
2. Smith, A.;Gell, C. and Brockwell, D. (2006) Handbook of Single Molecule Fluorescence
Spectroscopy, Oxford University Press
Online Course Materials
1. Sen, P., Fluorescence Spectroscopy, NPTELCourse Material, Department of Chemistry,
Institute of Technology Kanpur https:llnptel.ac.in/courses/104104084/
2. Dutta, A. Ultrafast Laser Spectroscopy, NPTELCourse Material, Department of Chemistry,
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay https:/Inptel,ac.in/cQurses/104/101/104101122/
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 21.3.1 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
List of students completing graduation
to award the Degree during the 7th
S.N. Roll No.
Ch Bhanu Prakash
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Fateh Singh Meena
Jay Bhaskar Kapadia B.Tech.
Kamal Kant Sharma
Karan Sanjay Modh
Mayank Maheshwari B.Tech.
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Abhijeet Abhay Sutar B.Tech.
Ajay Kumar Meena
Aman Sumit Gael
Arif Muhammed V S B.Tech.
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Chirag Raj Gajrani
Raju Raj Kumar
Rohan Sunil Shisode B.Tech.
Akash Kumar Singh B.Tech.
Anil Kumar Gurjar
J Sandeep Narayan
Sahil Harish Batra
Shah Nisarg Anish
HARIKRISHNA K M.Sc.
PEEYUSH PANDEY M.Sc.
Apoorva Lakshman M.Sc.
AKSHIMA NEG I
MD UMAR FARUK
No R. Rohan
Jai Prakash Singh
Metallurgical & Materials
Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
IVRITANT KUMAR IM.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
RAKESH MAURYA MT
253 MT19MT012 MD FAIZ AKHTAR MT
DURGESH KUMAR M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
M.Tech. in Metallurgical & Materials
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Computer Science and
Sunil Kumar Sharma AI
Ashu Kumar Solanki AI
VIKANKSH NATH AI
276 MT19AMDOO1 Deepak Daksh
277 MT19AMD002 Nikhll Sheshkar
278 MT19AMD003 AMITAJAIN
279 MT19AMD004 Bhupesh sharma
280 MT19AMD005 RITUYADAV
281 MT19AMDOO6 RAJAT GOSW AMI
282 MT19AMD007 Subharn
283 MT19AMDOO8 MAHARSHI
284 MT19AMD009 GAJANANPAWAR
285 MT19AMD012 SARBESH KUMAR
286 MT19AMD013 MAURYA
287 MT19AMD014 SEERVI
288 MT19AMD015 LAKHMANI
289 MT19AMD018 PIYUSH GUPTA
Astha A Yadav
Sorn Mohanlal Patwa BB
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Dwikul [yoti Das
MOHAMMAD AZIZ M.Tech. in
BHEEMRAJ MEENA CPS
314 MT19CPS012 AAMROOPYADAV
318 MT19CPS019 Manjita Saini
320 MT19DCSOO1 VlKASH RATHAUR DCS
321 MT19DCS002 UTKARSHA GUPTA DCS
322 MT19DCS003 Ashish Sharma
323 MT19DCS004 ABHISHEK KUMAR DCS
325 MT19DCS006 KAPIL GUPTA
327 MT19DCS009 KUMAR
Lovely Lakhi Mudi
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
333 MT19SloT003 ROHAN KUMAR
335 MT19SIoT005 Vivek Anand
336 MT19SloT006 Adarsh Chaturvedi
337 MT19SloT007 Neelu
338 MT19SloT008 VARUNKUMAR
SIDDHANTKUMAR M.Tech. in
339 MT19SIoT009 SRIVASTAVA
340 MT19SloTOll MEGHA
341 MT19SloT012 ANJANA SINGH
342 MT19SIoT013 ROUNAKJAIN
344 MT19SIoT016 Diksha Singh
345 MT19SloT020 Mukesh Bharadwa]
346 MT19sIoT022 Bande
347 MT19TFEOO1 Sontakke
348 MT19TFE002 Kamalcharan
iGhanshyam Sitaram IM.Tech. in
350 MT19TFE005 Bharate
354 MT19TFE012 Veeru
PIYUSH GANGWAR TFE
SHUBHANSHU RAI TFE
PRASHANT KUMAR M.Tech.
Ms. Arpita Srivastava
Ms. Sumitra Godara
Ms. Anchal Gahlaut
Ms. Devika Laishram Philosophy
Mr. Brajesh Kumar
Mr. Ankit Agarwal
Mr. Ishan Varun
386 PG201281001 Mr. Ajay Jain
Mr. Anuj Kumar
Mr. Ajay Kumar
Mr. Aniket Dilip
Mr. Gaurav Jajoo
Ms. Abhra Paul
Number of Graduands
SUMMARY OF GRADUANDS
Computer Science and Engineering
M. Tech. (AI)
Computer Science and Engineering
M. Tech. (CS)
M. Tech. (BB)
Computer Science and Engineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
M. Tech. (AMD)
M. Tech. (TFE)
M. Tech. (CPS)
M. Tech. (SloT)
M. Tech. (DCS)
M. Tech. (MT)
M.Tech. (2018 batch)
Grand Total = A+B+C+D
Abbreviation (*) :
AI: Artificial Intelligence
CS: Computer Science and Engineering
BB:Bioscience and Bioengineering
AMD: Advanced Manufacturing and Design
CPS: Cyber Physical System
SloT: Sensors and Internet of Things
DCS: Data and Computational Sciences
MT: Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
List of selected students
Branch Name of specialization
1 Abhinish Kumar Singh
2 Ansh Shrivastava
3 Anshul Ahuja
4 Aryan Singh
6 Battula Gautam
7 Bhanu Prakash
8 Hiren Chalodiya
9 Deesha Chavan
10 Devesh Kumar
11 Anmol Reddy Gangwar
12 Gaurav Arya
13 Hrishi Raj
14 Kamal Kant Sharma
15 Kush Trivedi
16 Mohammad Umair Anis
17 Pranavi peramsetty
18 Piyush Kumar
19 Ritesh Goyal
20 samyak kumar
21 Shubhankar Gaikwad
22 Sristi Jain
23 Vinay Vijay Devadiga
24 Chakshu Gupta
25 Darsh Agrawal
27 Aksh Chordia
Minor in Entrepreneurship
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Entrepreneurship
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Entrepreneurship
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Specialization in Internet of Things
Specialization in Artificial Intelligence
29 Anupama patel
Specialization in Artificial Intelligence
30 Apoorv Jain
31 Arham Chordia
32 Devansh Bhargava
33 Harshit Sharma
34 Jain Ritik
35 Alish Kanani
36 Mansi Singh
Minor in Entrepreneurship
Minor in Management
Specialization in Internet of Things
Minor in Entrepreneurship
Minor in Entrepreneurship
Specialization in Internet of Things
Specialization in Artificial Intelligence
37 Muskan Chitara
Specialization in Artificial Intelligence
39 Saurav Yadav
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
40 Vaidya Swar Bhavarth
41 Vip in Kumar
42 Vipul Sahu
43 Abhijeet Sutar
Specialization in Internet of Things
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Specialization in Thermofluids Engineering
44 Aditi Tiwari
Specialization in Artificial Intelligence
45 Ankit Mangal
Specialization in Thermofluids Engineering
46 Arpit Kumar
47 Ashish Chavan
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
48 Atharva Mandsaurwale
Minor in Management
50 Dhruv Krishna
51 Kshitij Patil
53 Naman Jindal
54 Pawan kishore
55 Rohan Shisode
Specialization in Robotics
Specialization in Robotics
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Minor in Management
Specialization in Thermofluids Engineering
56 Shaunak Abhijit Mehta
Specialization in Robotics
Minor in Management
58 Shubham Suresh Cattan
Specialization in Robotics
59 Siddhant Shrikant Saoji
Specialization in Robotics
*Shyam Kumar Cautam (B17CS053) withdrew from the specialization.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
AGENDA ITEM 27.4.2 of 27th Meeting of Senate
on 9 November 2021 (Tuesday) 03:00 pm at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
PhIlD. Comprehensive Examination
Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
L. c c
Essential mathematics for Civil and
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Objectives: To study essential mathematics for Civil and infrastructure engineering applications.
(SRC can suggest anyone subtopic from the following)
Probability and Statistics: Types of data, estimation of mean, median, variance, standard
deviation, percentiles, population size,
Interval estimation, Outliers, Graphical Description of
Data, Histograms and Frequency Diagrams, Probability, Random Variables and Probability
Distribution, Extreme Value Distributions. Correlation Analysis, Simple linear regression,
square estimation, Confidence Intervals
the Regression Equation, Multiple Regression
logit and probit models, Hypothesis Tests of Means, Hypothesis Tests of
Variances, Tests of Distributions; Test of Population Means, Multiple Comparisons in the ANOVA
Test, Test of Population Variances (Chapters 2-5, 9-10, 12-13, Reference 1; Chapter 8,
Reference 2; Chapter 10, Online material 2)
Optimization: Unconstrained and constrained minimization programs: Programs in one variable,
One dimensional minimization:
first and second order conditions,
methods, global convergence of descent algorithms, Newton's method, Conjugate direction
method, Quasi-Newton Method, multidimensional program; Non-negativity and linear inequality
transportation and network flow problem, Shortest
minimization, Convex combinations method;
path algorithms (Chapters 2, 5-11, Reference 3; Chapters 2, 4, and 5, Online material 2)
System of equations: Eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization;
Inner product spaces,
real symmetric matrices; Systems of
ODEs: Homogeneous and nonhomogeneous linear systems; Fourier series, Fourier integrals and
Fourier transforms: basic results. Partial Differential Equations: Classification of linear second
order PDEs in two variables; Modeling: vibrating string, heat conduction; solutions using Fourier
series, Fourier integrals and Fourier transforms. numerical solution of ODEs and PDEs for initial
value problems and boundary value problems, numerical solution of nonlinear system of
(Chapters 2,3 and 5, Reference 4; Chapters 1,2,3 and 4, Reference 5; Chapters
6-7,10,12, Online material 3)
1. Ayyub, B. M. and McCuen, R.H.,
(2011), Probability, Statistics and Rt/iability
Engineers and SCientists, 3rd edition, Boca Raton: CRC Press.
2. Ang, A. H-S. and Tang, W. H., (2006), Probability Concepts in Engineering: Empbasis on
Applications to Civil and Environmental Engineering, 2nd edition, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
3. Luenberger, D. G. and Ye, Y., (2008), Linear and Nonlinear Programming, 3rd Edition,
Linear Algebra and Applications, Gilbert Strang, Thomson Brooks/Cole, 2005.
s. Partial Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers, S.J. Farlow, Dover publications,
1. Somesh Kumar, Probability
and Statistics, NPTEL
Course Material, Department
sheffi urban trans networks.pdf Cmit.edu)
3. Numerical Analysis, 9th ed. (ksu.edu.sa)
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Objectives: This course aims at
Providing knowledge of basic physical and chemical properties of aerosol particles.
Understanding global scale circulations of the atmosphere
Developing basics of climate science and climate change
Atmosphere and its constituents: Layers of atmosphere, Pressure and temperature in
the atmosphere, scales of atmospheric processes (Chapter 1, Reference 1)
Aerosol dynamics and physical properties: Brownian motion, Stokes'
settling, aerosol motion in external force field, Aerosol size distribution functions (Chapters
8 and 9, Reference 1)
Atmospheric organic aerosols and their optical properties: Primary and secondary
organic aerosol, volatility, Gas-particle partitioning, SOA models, Aqueous phase SOA,
absorption and scattering (Chapters 14 and 15, Reference 1)
Meteorology of Air Pollution: Physics of
the Atmosphere, Meteorological bases of
Atmospheric pollution, Transport and dispersion of air pollutants, Air pollution modelling
(Chapters 17, 18, 19, and 20, Reference 2)
Climate change: Definition of climate, GHGs and Greenhouse effect, Planetary emission
temperature, Simple greenhouse model, Global Circulation of
the atmosphere (Hadley,
Ferrell and Polar cell), (Chapters 1 and 21, Reference 1; Chapters 2 and 12, Reference 3)
1. Seinfeld J.H. and Pandis, S.N., (20f3), Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics- From Air
Pollution to Climate Change, 3rd edition, John Wiley and Sons, Inc.
2. Boubel, R. W., Fox, D. L., Turner, D. B. and Stern, A. c., (1994), Fundamentals of Air
Pollution, 3rd Edition, Academic Press, Elsevier Inc.
3. Marshall, J. and Plumb, R. A., (2008), Atmosphere, Ocean, and Climate Dynamics, 1st
edition, Elsevier Academic Press.
1. Kroll J., Atmospheric Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute
of Technoiagy: MIT Open
Trace gas chemistry
Civil and Infrastructure
examination in Civil and Infrastructure
Objectives: This course aims at
1. Providing knowledge on important
2. Understanding the role of trace gases in atmospheric
trace gases and their sources
Atmospheric trace gases and sources: Trace gases, Atmospheric
containing compounds, Carbon containing compounds, Atmospheric ozone, Emission sources
(Chapter 2, Reference 1)
Radiation and photochemistry:
by Atmospheric Gases, photo-dissociation
and 4, Reference 2)
Radiation, Global energy balance, Absorption of Radiation
(Chapter 4, Reference 1; Chapter 3
species, Stratospheric ozone depletion (Chapter 5, Reference 1; Chapter 4, Reference 2)
chemistry: Chapman mechanism,
Tropospheric chemistry: Photochemical
and NOx in Ozone Formation, Ozone Budget of
Isopleth (Chapter 6, Reference 1; Chapter 4, Reference 2; Chapter 11, Reference 3)
reactions involving N021 NO, and 03, Roles of VOC
and Role of NOx, Ozone
Quasi-Laminar Resistance, Surface Resistance, Measurement of Dry Deposition (Chapter 19,
Reference 1; Chapter 20, Reference 3)
1. Seinfeld J.H. and Pandis, S.N.,
(2013), Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics- From Air
Pollution to Climate Change, 3rd edition, John Wiley and Sons,
B.J. and Pitts,
Jacobson, M.Z., (2005), Fundamentals of Atmospheric Modeling, 2nd edition, Cambridge
the Upper and Lower
1. Kroll L, Atmospheric Chemistry, Massachusetts
of Technology: MIT Open
-eng ineeri ng/1-84j-atmospheric-chemistry-fall-
20 13/index. htm
Introduction to Solid Waste Management
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
1. To understand life cycle of waste generation
2. To understand the basic steps of solid waste management
3. To understand selection of location specific solid waste management options
Solid waste Classification: Definition and Classification of Solid Waste Based on Different
Parameters, Waste Characterization, Solid Waste Management System, Affordability, Quantity,
Demographics, Climatic and Seasonal Variations, Physical Characteristics of Area, Public Attitude,
(Chapter 1-3, Textbook 1; NPTEL-1-4 Lectures, Online Material 1)
Collection and Transport: Waste Stream Assessment, Vehicle Weighing, Field Visit, Collectir
Frequency, Extent of Salvaging and 9 Rs, Hauling and LPPthought
(Chapter 2, Reference 5)
Separation and Processing Techniques: Waste Sorting, Separation, and its distinctiveness,
compactors, Size Reduction (Chapter 6-9, Textbook 1)
Floatation, Drying, Dewatering.
Reduction: Composting stages, and its types, Biological Processes Involved in Composting
Chemical Processes, Physical Processes, Benefits of Composting, Biogas Plant History, Anaerobic
Composting, Pyrolysis and Incineration (Chapter 1-3, Textbook 2)
Options for Disposal: Sanitary Landfill
Processes of Landfill
Degradation Process) (Chapter 8-10, Reference 1; Chapter 11, Reference 5)
(Principle, Different Phases of Life Cycle of Landfill),
(Site Selection Process, Settling Process, Stages in Settling, Microbial
1. Tchobanoglous, G., Theisen, H., Vigil S.,
Engineering Principles and Management
2. Haug R. T., (1990), Composting Engineering: Principles and Practice, Ann Arbor Science,
Integrated Solid Waste Management:
Issues, McGraw-Hili Series in Water Resources and
(2018), Solid Waste Landfill Engineering and
1. McBean, E. A., Rovers, F. A., Farquhar, G. J.,
Design, Prentice Hall; ISBN-10: 0130791873,
2. Ludwig C., Hellweg, S. (2003), Municipal Solid Waste Management, Springer 200J; London, ISBN
3. Shah, K. L. (2019), Basics of Solid and Hazardous Waste Management Technology, Prentice Hall,
4. V. Rajaram, F Z Siddiqui, A. Agrawal, M E Khan, Solid and Liquid Waste Management: Waste tO
Wealth, PHI, New Delhi 2016
5'. A. Bagchi, Design of Landfills and Integrated Solid Waste Management, 3rd Edition,
978-0-471-25499-7 March 2004, Wiley, Pages712
1. TV Ramachandra Municipal Solid Waste Management,
2. Solid and Hazardous Waste Management, lITM, https:/lnptel.ac.in/courses/105106056/
Environmental Soil -Water Conservation
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
1. To understand basic thoughts on soil-water
2. To have basic knowledge of water use on soils for various activities including agriculture
3. To understand location specific conservation activities where soil erosion and degradation
is a feature
Environment Conservation: Conservation practices of specific societies, Engineers in Soil
Irrigation, Flood Control
and Water Conservation, Hydrologic Cycle, Soil Erosion, Drainage,
and Water Supply - (Chapter 1, Textbook 1)
Quality of water and Climate: Water Resources of
India, Quality issues, Contaminant
sources, Physical contaminants, Water quality Regulations, Characteristics of Precipitation
and their measurement-
(Chapter 1, Textbook 3)
and Runoff: Evaporation, Evapotranspiration estimation
methods, crop and landscape coefflclents, Darcy's Equation, Infiltration curves, Hydrographs
(Chapter 5, Textbook 2)
Soil Erosion by Water and Wind: Erosion processes, Raindrop, sheet and inter-rill,
Stream channel erosion, Sediment Transport and delivery; Erosion control Practices.
Terraces and their classification, Wind erosion, Wind based soil movement, control practices
(Chapter 7 and 20, Textbook 1)
Open Channel Flows and Water-Sediment Controls: States of Flow, Equations of flow,
level sensors, Weirs,
Flumes, Flow Spillways, Chutes, Flume (Chapter 6, Textbook 1)
flow, Channel design, gradually varied flows, Water speed,
Channel/River Restoration and Wetlands: Drainage Network, Water Supply, Ponds,
Ground Water, Porous Aquifers, Wells, Wetlands & its classification, Water Rights (Chapter
11, Textbook 1)
DrainCllge and Irrigation Basics: Surface & Subsurface Drainage, Drains and Ditches,
system layout, Depth in sub-surface
irrigation, Plant Water needs (Chapter 13, Textbook 1)
Irrigation Methods, and pumping systems (Chapter 8, Textbook 3).
Principles- Soil-Water, Soil Survey
l.Schwab, G. a., Fangmeier, D. D., Elliot, W. J., Frevert, R. K., (2008), Soil and Water
Conservation Engineering, 4th Edition, Thompson Delmar Learning, NY.
2. Subramanya K., 2008, Engineering Hydrology 3rd Edition, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi
3. Michael, A.M. (1990),
Irrigation Theory and Practice, 2nd Edition, Vikas Publishing, New
1. Michael, A.M. and Ojha, T.P. 2003. Principles of Agricultural Engineering, 4th Edition, Jain
Brothers, New Delhi.
2. M. Sahimi, Flow and Transport
in Porous Media and Fractured Rock, 1995, VCH, NY.
1.Singh, R., Soil and Water Conservation Engineering, NPTEL Course Material, Department
2. Mishra, A., Soil and Water Conservation Engineering, e-Krishi Shiksha
iasri. res. in/course/view. php?id =54
Practical Soil Dynamics
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Objectives: The course aims at
1. Understanding the basics of dynamic loads and seismicity concepts
Introducing the cyclic soil behavior assessment through field and laboratory testing
Imparting the skillset of modelling soil behavior subjected to typical dynamic loads
Dynamic Loads: Harmonic motion,
freedom systems, wave propagation
(Chapter 2 and 3, Textbook 2)
Seismological concepts: Causes of earthquakes, plate tectonics,
ground motion and ground motion characteristics (Chapter 2 and 3, Textbook 1)
single and multi-degree of
in elastic, homogeneous and isotropic media
fault setting, strong
theory of vibration,
Dynamic Soil Characterization:
Linear, nonlinear and plastic
behavior of soils subjected to dynamic loads, soil constitute relationships. Field and
testing: Comprehensive dynamic soil properties, geophysical
tests (Chapter 6, Textbook 1; Reference 4)
Cyclic soil behavior:
Seismic Hazard Analysis (SHA): Seismic hazard analysis: Types of seismic hazards,
methods of SHA-deterministic
response analysis methods, Eurocode 1998 and IS 1893 recommendations,
microzonation studies. (Chapters 4 and 7, Textbook 1; References 1 and 2)
Liquefaction of soils: Basics of
liquefaction, methods of
and field liquefaction evaluation techniques,
and 12, Textbook 1)
liquefaction assessment-stress and strain based, experimental
liquefaction mitigation measures (Chapter 9
soils prone to liquefaction,
Seismic Design of Foundations: Foundations for dynamic loads: Seismic bearing
capacity, machine foundations design criteria, shallow and deep foundations, seismic soil
recommendations. Seismic slope stability and earth retaining structures: Pseudo-static,
pseudo-dynamic and dynamic analysis of retaining walls, seismic slope stability analysis
methods (Chapter 6, Textbook 2; Chapters 10 and 11, Textbook 1)
1. Kramer; S. L. (1996). Geotechnical earthquake engineering. Pearson Education India.
I\!~w Delhi, India
2. Saran, S. (1999). Soil dynamics and machine foundations. Galgotia Publication Pvt. Ltd.
New Delhi, India, 486.
1. Kolathayar, 5., Sitharam, T. G., & Vipin, K. S. (2012). Deterministic seismic hazard
macrozonation of India. Journal of earth system science, 121(5), 1351-1364.
2. Nath, S. K., & Thingbaijam, K. K. S. (2012). Probabilistic seismic hazard assessment of
India. Seismological Research Letters, 83(1), 135-149.
3. Krishna, A. M., Bhattacharya,S., & Choudhury, D. (2014). Seismic requalification of
Indian Geotechnical Journal, 44(2), 113-118.
4. Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering course on NPTEL-
Highway alignment and studies
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
1. To understand the fundamentals of traffic engineering
2. To understand the elements of geometric design of highways.
3. To understand various studies in traffic engineering and transport planning
Fundamentals of traffic engineering: Road User's characteristics
- Physical, mental,
length, height, weight, speed, efficiency of
emotional; Vehicular characteristics
breaks; Road characteristics
road and tyre surface; Reaction time- factors affecting, PIEV theory (Chapter 3, Textbook
1; Chapter 4, Reference 1; Online material 1)
- gradient, curve of a road, design speed,
Geometric design: Highway classification; Factors affecting geometric design; Highway
design Process-Highway cross sectional elements, Sight distance, Highway alignment:
-horizontal curve, Super elevation, extra widening, Transition curve,
Setback distance, Visibility, Vertical alignment
curve, valley curve (Chapter 15, Textbook 1; Chapter 6, Reference 1; Chapter 27,
Reference 2; Chapter 3, Online material 2)
Traffic Studies and Basic Analysis: Speed, journey time, and delay studies, Volume and
occupancy studies, Origin-destination Studies, Parking studies, Accident Studies. Capacity
and Level of Service (LOS) analysis (Chapters 4, 9, and 10, Textbook 1; Chapters 9,10,
11, Reference 2; Chapters 4-6, Online material 3)
1. N. J. Garber, L.A. Hoel. Traffic and Highway Engineering, 4th Edition
1. Khisty, C. J., Transportation Engineering - An Introduction, Prentice-Hall, NJ
2. R. P. Roess, E.S. Prassas, W.R. McShane. Traffic Engineering, 4th edition, Pearson.
1. httpsr/ /link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007
iTraffic flow modelling, management and
Civil and Infrastructure Engi neering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
1. To understand the fundamentals of traffic flow theory and modelling
2. To understand various methods of traffic management and control
Traffic Flow theory and modelling: Micro and macro parameters of
Fundamental equation of
equations, Solution to linear and
non-linear partial differential equations, Car following models, Shockwave theory and
applications (Chapter 6, Textbook 1; Chapter 5, Textbook 2; Chapter 5, Reference 1)
Analysis of traffic flow: Accumulation diagrams, Probability distributions and statistics
for traffic analysis, Gap acceptance theory, Queuing theory and applications (Chapter 6,
Textbook 1; Appendix B, Textbook 2)
Traffic control and management: Road signs and markings, Traffic islands; At grade
Traffic signal design by IRC method, Webster's
and grade separated intersections;
ITS user services (Chapters 7 and 8, Textbook 1; Chapter 8,
methods and HCM method,
Reference 1; Chapters 6,7, and 9, Online material 1)
TSM and TDM measures: Public transportation & HOV treatment,
carpooling, exclusive lanes, priority at ramp terminals,
work hours, high peak period tolls, shuttle services, one-way streets,
Parking management, Non-motorized and pedestrian traffic management
and 14, Textbook 2; Online material 2)
staggered work hours,
park and ride,
1. N. J. Garber, L.A. Hoel. Traffic and Highway Engineering, 4th Edition
2. Khisty, C. J., Transportation Engineering - An Introduction, Prentice-Hall, NJ
1. R. P. Roess, E.S. Prassas, W.R. McShane. Traffic Engineering, 4th edition, Pearson.
2. https./ /www.sdforward.com/pdfs/DraftAppendixE-TransportationSystemAnd
gementProg ramsAndEmerg ingTechnolog ies. pdf
Wind Energy and Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
This course aims at:
1. Introduction to the principles of wind energy and wind resource assessment.
2. Understanding the effect of wind forces and its respective analysis in different
3. Advanced principles of aerodynamics and structural mechanics used in wind engineering.
Basics of Wind Properties: Atmospheric wind circulation - its mechanism, Coriolis effect
turbulence intensity, vertical profile; Statistical distribution of wind speed - wind
rose diagram; Wind classes; Wind shear; Density of air; Wind measurements - types of
and technology; Spatiotemporal wind resource assessment
analysis, regression. (Chapter 3, 6, 7, Textbook 1)
Basics of Wind Energy and Power: General concepts such as kinetic energy of wind,
basic equations, conservation of mass, energy, momentum, maximum rated power, power
coefficient, average annual power from a wind turbine,
total energy; Betz limit; Power
density; Different ways to express wind energy. (Chapter 2, Textbook 1)
Wind Loads: Design considerations; Types of wind; Wind characteristics - variation of
wind velocity with height, wind turbulence, probabilistic approach, vortex
dynamic nature of wind, cladding pressures; Code provisions for wind loads -
Standard, ASCE, NBCC; Wind forces on offshore structures.
(Chapter 1, Textbook 2;
Advanced Topics in Wind Energy: Aerodynamics - concept of
fluid flow, 2D and 3D
aerodynamics; Betz and Glaurets turbine theories; Blade element momentum method and
corrections; Horizontal and vertical axis wind turbines - types and components.
Textbook 1; Chapter 6, Textbook 4; Chapter 3, Textbook 4)
Wind Engineering and Design:
to wind forces, wind resistant design -
Textbook 5; Chapter 1, Textbook 2)
Inputs required for the analysis of structures,
requirement; Aeroelastic effects.
(2011) Wind Energy
2. Taranath, B.S. (2005) Wind and Earthquake Resistant Buildings Structural Analysis and
Design, Marcel Dekker, US. ISBN 0-8247-5934-6
3. Hansen, M.O.L. (2015) Aerodynamics of Wind Turbines, 3rd Edition, Routledge, US. ISBN
4. Manwell, J.F., McGowan, J.G. and Rogers, A.L. (2009) Wind Energy Explained Theory,
Design and Application, 2nd Edition, Wiley, UK. ISBN 978-0-470-01500-1
5. Ghosh, S.K. and Fanella, D.A. (2004) Seismic and Wind Design of Concrete Buildings,
International Code Council-New York.
Buildings and Structures: Part 3 Wind Load, Bureau of
15:875 (Part 3), Code of Practice for Design Loads (other
Indian Standards, New Delhi
Online Course Material
1. Banerji, S., Energy Resources & Technology, NPTEL Course Material, Department of
Geomatics for Smart Infrastructure
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
1. To understand the concepts of Geographic Knowledge Infrastructure,
and various components required for spatial data infrastructure
2. To understand the strategies or policies required for addressing the challenges such as
3. To understand Implementation,
and challenges through various Case studies
Basics of Geographic information Systems: Maps; Overview of Technology; Automated
Technology; Systems Design Process; Going Mobile (Chapter 2, Textbook 1; Online
material 1, 2)
and Planning; Evolution
as a Data-Driven
information Visualization and Extended Reality Displays: Big Data,
Virtual Reality, Virtual Geographic
and Synergies Between the loT and DE; Future of the loT in Support of DE
(Chapter 6 & 10, Textbook 2; Online material 1, 2, 8 &. 9)
loT Standards Initiatives from Digital Earth (DE);
and Geovisual Analytics;
Fundamental of Smart Cities and Data Analytics: Components, Characteristics and
Role of Big Data Applications in Smart Cities; Technology in Smart Cities and Challenges;
Smart City Design: Challenges and Opportunities
(Chapters 1, Textbook 3; Online
Governance in Smart City-An Approach Based on Social Network: System
Hierarchies for Smart Governance; Collection of Data and Classification of
Catalog for BOA (Chapters 4 & 8, Textbook 3; Online material 7, 8 &. 9)
Influence Maximization; Rumour Detection & Influence Minimization;
for Big Data Analytics (BOA); Architectural Tactics and Patterns
Case Studies on Smart Cities: A Case Study of NEOM City, Saudi Arabia; Smart Cities
Pilot Projects: An loT Perspective - Pilot Projects; Performance of Smart Cities Concerning
the Use of loT: A Case Study of Four Indian Himalayan Cities (Chapter 11-13, Textbook 3;
Online material 3, 4, 8)
1. Austin, R.F., DiSera, D.P. and Brooks, TJ., 2015. GIS for critical
2. Guo, H., Goodchild, M.F. and Annoni, A., 2020. Manual of digital Earth (p. 852). Springer
Nature. ISBN: 978-981-32-9914-6
3. Khan, M.A, Algarni, F., Quasim M.T., 2021. Smart Cities: A Data Analytics Perspective.
1. Srivastava, G.S. 2014. An Introduction to Geoinformatics. McGraw Hill Education (India)
Private Limited. New Delhi. India.
2. Holdstock, D.A., 2019. Smart Geospatial Practices and Applications in Local Government:
An Altogether Different Language. eRC Press.
3. Williamson, LP., Rajabifard, A. and Feeney, M.E.F. eds., 2003. Developing spatial data
from concept to reality. CRC Press.
4. Shekhar, S. and Xiong, H. eds., 2007. Encyclopedia of GIS. Springer Science & Business
Online course material:
1. Prof. Arun K. Saraf (2016),
Introduction to Geographic Information System.
2. Prof. Bharath H Aithal, Geographic Information System, NPTEL.
3. Smart Cities Mission: A step towards Smart India
4. Smart City - liT Kanpur
5. Smartnet (niua.org)
6. Hong Kong Smart City Blueprint
7. Smart Transportation - transforming Indian cities
8. https://www.enisa .europa .eu/toplcs/Iot-a nd-smart-infrastructures
9. Prof. Sudip Misra,
introd uction- internet-th inqs/
concepts in Modern Power Grid
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Objective: Provide background to assess the understanding of the smart grid technologies and
distributed generation concepts, control, and stability aspects.
Smart Grid Basics: Evolution of Electric Power Grid and Smart Grid, Objectives, main
Energy Resources: Centralized vs. distributed generation;
Vehicle (PEV), aggregator.
- overcoming intermittence;
renewable energy: solar, wind,
storage systems technology, Plug-in Electric
(Chapter 2 Textbook-l; Unit-2 online materials-L).
Hydropower Storage: Pumped storage hydropower plant,
layout, components, sizing. (Chapter 2, 9, 13 Textboo-2)
turbines, motors, classification,
shaving and valley filling;
Load profile of
the power grid; market pricing;
(unit 7-8 Online Materials-l)
Monitoring and Protection: Wide-area monitoring system (WAMS), SCADA and PMU;
advanced metering infrastructure
(Unit-3 online materials-l).
(AMI); smart metering;
Distributed generation: DG types, concept of inertia and frequency response,
issues, ramping issues, modelling and control of distributed energy sources such as solar
PV,wind energy, diesel generator.
unit-2 online materials-l)
Micro grids: Micro grid benefits,
Reference-li Chapter 1, 2 Reference-2).
voltage and frequency
typical structures, control of converters in DC and AC
(Chapter 1, 3,
Challenges: Stability issues with weak grid integration, power quality requirements, DG
(Chapter 3, 4, 5 Reference-2; Unit-4 online materlals-L)
related to islanding,
services: Ancillary services with DGs, control
for ancillary services, virtual
(Chapter 3 Reference -2).
Integration of Distributed Generation in the Power
1. Bollean, M.H.]., Hasan, F., (2011),
Systems, Willey-IEEE India Press.
2. Pandey, B., Karki, A.,
Environment, CRC Press.
(2017), Hydroelectric Energy, Renewable Energy and the
1. Roosa, Stephen-A (2021), Fundamentals of microgrids: development and implementation,
2. Bevrani, H., Francois, B., Ise, T., (2017), Microgrid Dynamics and Control, John Wiley &
1. Prof. NP Padhy and Prof. Premlata Jena,
to Smart Grid, NPTEL Lecture
Energy Storage Systems for Smart Grid
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Ph.D. Comprehensive examination in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Objective: To assess the understanding of
the energy storage and plugin-electric
Static Energy Storage:
Demand and storage: Energy demand, energy storage requirement
in smart grid, and
types of energy storage systems. Technical characteristics in terms of power rating and
discharge time, storage duration, energy efficiency, energy densltv, cycle life,
capital cost, etc. (Chapter-l, 2, Reference-1).
Thermal energy storage systems: Thermal energy storage methods, sensible heat
cold thermal energy storage,
storage. Latent heat storage, phase-change materials,
seasonal thermal energy storage. (Chapter-3, Reference-1).
Mechanical energy storage systems: Flywheel energy storage and components,
pumped hydropower storage, compressed-air energy storage- classification, components,
characteristics, off-grid systems - sizing, battery testing, battery management, safety
aspects of high voltage batteries, hydrogen energy storage, Hydrogen economy, fuel cell,
safety aspects. (Chapter-l, 9, Reference-1).
Electrical energy storage: Superconducting magnetic energy storage systems
principles, materials, performance, and characteristics,
Dynamic Energy Storage
Plugin-Electrical Vehicles: History and recent developments of electrical vehicles.
Types of electric vehicles:
Reference-2; Module-l Online Materials-1)
in EV and HEV.
Electric vehicle as Storage system: Battery types, parameters, battery management.
(Chapter-3 Reference-2; Chapter-2, 3 Online Materials-2)
infrastructure, normal charging station, occasional charging station,
battery swapping station. (Chapter-2 Reference-2, Chapter-12 Reference-3)
fast charging station,
Types of charging: constant voltage, constant current, pulse charging,
conductive charging. (Chapter-6 Reference-2i Chapter-3, 5 Online Materials-2)
control. (Chapter- 8 Reference-2)
impact on transmission and distribution networks, and aggregator-area
1. Huggins, R.A., (2014), Energy Storage-Fundamentals,
edition, Springer. Chapter3, 6, and 9.
2. Husain, 1., (2011), Electric and Hybrid Vehicles Design Fundamentals,
Press. Chapter 3-4.
3. Ehsani, M" Gao, Y./ Emadi, A"
Vehicles Fundamentals, Theory and Design, 2nd Edition, CRC Press
Materials and Applications,
2nd Edition, CRC
(2011), Modem Electric, Hybrid Electric, and Fuel Cell
lIT Delhi, https://nptel.ac.in/courses/l08/102/108102121/
1. Jain, A.K., Electric Vehicles - Part 1, NPTELCourse Material, Department of Electrical
2. Kumar, P., Majhi, S.,
Material, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering,
to Hybrid and Electric Vehicles, NPTEL Course
f~ No. 32~37J2016aTS~1
Mini$by of Educ:ation
Depantnen,t of HiPe<r EdUcatiO-D
Sbastri Uhaw.an. New Delhi
of National Education
Pollcy (NEP) 2020
I am di:rected to rekr
to the subject mt'!rriioned above and to say that
of National Education Policy
(HEP) 2&20 may be included in aD SoC meetings of yo..:u!'1'eSpectiYle Institute.. The points
w'hidl are to, be: covered under
this agent.l'a item are as folLo,",'$~
item related to' implementation
i. Pmpamtion or Institutional btwelop:ment Plan (lor), as envisqed
ii~ Action abn
disciplimuy and multiadixiplimuy
ofMultipSe Entry- Exit system
iii..Plan for Implementation
hI..Online & DiGital Education and credit awanll mechanism £Or the mur.tes
v. Promotion 'Dr ReBionid Languages,.Arts
viiU:O-nnect with industry.
li:ndustry and aadoemia
of Int:ematioBal Students Office and iil:$ $latu.$:.. pdate
for research and education (including mobility between
as NWmmended by lIT Council)
S¥g"" by P J
Oate! Z5 ..1,Q..20Z1 15:5;3<:23
Under Seaetary to tbe Govt oflndM,