Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
22 October 2019 (Tuesday)
Board Room, IIT Delhi
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 21st Meeting
22 October 2019 (Tuesday), 02:30 P.M.
Board Room, IIT Delhi
The following Members were present:
Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to GoI
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Director & Member
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Professor, Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur  Member
Mrs. Shuchi Sharma,
Secretary, Higher & Technical Education, Govt. of Rajasthan
Prof.  Surajit  Ghosh,
& Bioengineering, IIT Jodhpur
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admn.) & Offg. Registrar
The following members were unable to attend the meeting:
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, MD & CEO, Jain Irrigation, Jalgaon
Dr. S. S. Sandhu, Additional Secretary (TE), MHRD,
Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
(granted leave of absence)
The following are the decisions of the Board on the items of the Agenda:
21.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
The  Chairman  welcomed  the  Members  especially  Mrs.  Shuchi  Sharma,  Secretary,
Higher  &  Technical Education, Govt.  of  Rajasthan  who  was  attending the  meeting
for  the  first  time  as  State  nominee,  Govt.  of  Rajasthan,  Professor  Surajit  Ghosh,
who was attending meeting for the first time as Member, BoG (Senate Nominee on
the BoG) and Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admn) & Offg. Registrar, who was attending
the meeting for the first time to act as Secretary, BoG.
Also, the Chairman appreciated the Director for his commendable efforts to attract
new faculty members for various disciplines and called the meeting in Order.
21.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes of the 20th Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 11 June 2019 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  confirmed  the  Minutes  of  the  20th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of  Governors
held on 11 June 2019, as circulated.
21.1.2  Report on Action Taken on the 20th Meeting held on 11 June 2019 at Board
Room, IIT Jodhpur.
The Board noted the Action Taken Report (ATR) on various  decisions  taken in the
20th Meeting of the Board of Governors held on 11 June 2019.
21.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The Director presented a detailed report of the Institute before the Board (through
PowerPoint  Presentation)  outlined  in  Four  Verticals  (a)  Academic  Programs  (b)
Program  wise  Student  Strength  (c)  Faculty  Strength  and  (d)  Research  and
The Board was apprised that the Institute currently offering 44 Academic Programs
and  was  also  apprised  the  Program-wise  Student Strength  from July 2019  as  per
A.  B.Tech Programs : 850
B.  Masters Programs ( M.Tech and M.Sc.): 312 (M.Tech. 192 + M.Sc 120)
C.  Dual Degree ( M.Tech , Ph.D) : 27 (M.Sc- M.Tech. 4) and (M.Tech.-Ph.D. 23)
D.  Doctoral Programs: 250 (Ph.D. + IDRP)
E.  Preparatory Students (B.Tech.): 5
Further, the Director also apprised the Board that the Faculty strength reached to
120 (including Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor, Visiting Professor
and  offered  faculty  positions)  owing  to  rigorous  faculty  recruitment  drive  by  the
Institute. The Research & Development Projects (including Sponsored, Consultancy
and  Research  Award)  reached  to  87  till  the  month  of  October  2019  and  also
Department-wise  Project  Status,  Category  wise  on-going  Projects  and  status  of
patents filed by the Institute.
Later,  the  Director  presented  the  Expenditure  Analysis,  Fund  &  Expenditure
Analysis,  Institute  Revised  Budget  Analysis,  Recurring  Expenditure  Analysis,
reasons for Higher Recurring Expenditure, Non-Recurring Expenditure, Reasons for
Higher  Non-recurring  Expenditure,  Salary  Expenditure  Analysis  and  reasons  for
higher Expenditure on salary. The Board noted the detailed presentation made by
Subsequently.  The  Director  briefed  the  Board  about  the  progress  made  by  the
Institute since last meeting of the Board of Governors as below:
Academic :  PG
A.  New M.Tech and M.Tech-Ph.D dual Degree Programs Started
In CPS, SIOT, AI, Advanced Manufacturing, Thermofluidics
•  165 M.Tech Students
•  30 M.Tech Ph.D Students
B.  New Inter-disciplinary Ph.D program Started in
•  Space Science & Technology
•  Smart Healthcare
•  Digital Humanities
•  Quantum Information Processing
•  Cognitive Science
Academic :  UG
New Undergraduate Curriculum Introduced at 1st Year
•  Structural Change
•  Minor & Departmental Specialisation with extra credits
•  Option of Switching to Dual Degree (B.Tech-M.Tech) in 7th semester
•  Opportunity for Entrepreneurship as part of programme
•  B.Tech Bio-engineering
B. Career Development Cell Formed by the Institute for the Students
New Initiatives: UG Academics
Increasing UG intake by 100
•  Curriculum Planning is in process for various new programmes.
•  Double Degree with additional Credits
•  Entry point Engineering Science and stream selection after two years
New Initiatives: PG
Initiation of Joint Degree Programs with AIIMS Jodhpur in:
•  Masters in Medical Technology
•  Ph.D  in Medical Technology
•  A New M.Sc  Programme in Digital Humanities
Joint Ph.D – IITJ and Kaohsiung Medical UniversityTaiwan
•  School of Management and Entrepreneurship
•  Centre for:   Foresight and Technology Policy
•  Centre for:  Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development
LoI with KMU, Taiwan
•  Strategic alliance with a group of French Universities
•  Participation in Knowledge Summit at Paris
•  Participation in ASEAN programme of GoI
New R&D Initiative in Alliance
Jodhpur  has  been  identified  as  one  of  the  6  cities  for  initiating  City  based
Innovation Cluster from PSA’s office
IIT Jodhpur will be  the coordinator
•  Proposal for funding and support developed through multiple brain-storming
•  Med-Tech Park for MSME
•  Crafts Lab for Digital Intervention in Handicrafts and  Textiles
Innovation in Governance
The Director also briefed the Board of Governors about several decisions of the IIT
Council  and  its  impact  on  the  Institute  taken  in  its  53rd  Meeting  held  on  27
September 2019 as under:
•  Tenure-track Appointment System at the level of Assistant Professor.
•  Third Party health cover for faculty and Staff
•  Hostel Operation in PPP mode
•  Discontinuation of MCM etc.
Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  Detailed  Institute  Report  presented  by  the
Director  especially  progress  made  by  the  Institute  since  last  meeting  of  the  BOG
and also in-principle approved the following initiatives:
Initiation of Joint Degree Programs with AIIMS Jodhpur in:
•  Masters in Medical Technology
•  Ph.D.  in Medical Technology
•  A New M.Sc  Programme in Digital Humanities
Joint Ph.D. – IITJ and Kaohsiung Medical University Taiwan
The  Board  also  in-principal  approved  the  initiatives  towards  exploring  creation  of
•  School of Management and Entrepreneurship
•  Centre for:  Foresight and Technology Policy
•  Centre for:  Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development
21.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
21.3.1  Recommendations  of  the  18th  Meeting  of  the  Senate  held  21  July  2019  at
The Board approved the recommendations of the 18th Meeting of the Senate held on
21 July 2019 at IIT Jodhpur.
21.3.2  Recommendations of the 18th Meeting of the Finance Committee held on 22
October 2019 (Forenoon) at Board Room, IIT Delhi
The  Board  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  18th  Meeting  of  the  Finance
Committee  held  on  22  October  2019  (forenoon)  and  after  detailed  discussion  on
various  recommendations  of  the  FC,  made  observations  on  following  items  and
approved as under:
Item  No.18.2.2:  Adoption of Annual Accounts  for  the  Financial  Year 2018-
The Board of Governors noted that the final Separate Audit Report for Financial Year
2018 -19 was not received from CAG till date and Finance Committee made detailed
discussion  on  the  Draft  SAR  alongwith  reply  of  the  Institute  and  recommend  the
same  to  the  BoG.  As  per  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee  and
keeping in view the timeline provided by the MHRD for laying Annual Accounts for
the  FY  2018-19  before  the  both  houses  of  Parliament;  the  Board  of  Governors
authorized  the  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors  to  adopt  the  final  Separate  Audit
Report  on  its  receipt  from  CAG  on  behalf  of  Finance  Committee  and  Board  of
Item No.18.2.3: To consider and recommend modification in existing 2017
Norms for Selection and Promotion for Non-Teaching Staff Positions
The Board of Governors noted and approved the following recommendations of the
Finance Committee on the matter:
in  December  2019  /July  2020;
“After  detailed  deliberations  on  the  matter  and  considering  the  present
Student  strength  of  1444  and  expected  student  strength  of  2000  after  the
the  Finance  Committee
recommended  the  distribution  of  various  posts  as  per  details  given  in
Annexure 1(b) presented in Agenda Item at Pages 119 to 121 of the Finance
Committee  (Annexure  A)  and  recommended  the  same  to  the  Board  of
Governors for approval due to increase in Non-Teaching Staff positions in the
prescribed ratio of 10:1:1.1 to 160 and 220  Non-Teaching Staff positions  on
the basis of expected student strength of 2000.
Further,  the  Finance  Committee  suggested  that  the  Institute  may  continue
with  the  existing  promotion  scheme  as  per  the  existing  2017  Norms  for
Selection  and  Promotion  for  Non-Teaching  Staff  Members  and  submit  the
Revised Norms for Selection and Promotion for Non-Teaching Staff Positions in
its ensuing meeting.”
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  that  currently  many  Staff  Members  leaving  the
Institute  for  their  career  progression  as  they  are  getting  better  opportunities  in
other  IITs.  After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Board  approved  that  till  the  Revised
Norms  for  Recruitment  and  Promotion  formed,  Institute  may  use  the  existing
promotion  policy  to  retain  good  employees  as  recommended  by  the  Finance
Item No.18.2.4: HEFA Loan for Creating State of Art Research Facility.
The Board  of  Governors  noted  and  approved the  following recommendation  of  the
Finance Committee on the matter:
“The Finance Committee analyzed the following budget availability under Equipment
head of OH 35:-
Budget Status under Equipment head of OH 35 as on 30 September 2019:
(Rs. In Crore)
Original Sanction by MHRD
Additional sanction (142.97+64.15-164)
Revised Cost Estimate (A+B)
Expenditure till 30 Sep 2019
Negative Balance in OH 35 as on 30 Sep 2019
Actual Expenditure after adjusting Negative Balance
Balance Budget = C-F
Grant  to  be  released  by  MHRD  under  OH  35  in  FY
Balance Budget = G-H
The Finance Committee after considering the requirement of creation of State of Art
Research  Facility  and  revised  cost  estimate  in  the  Equipment  Head  recommended
the following to the  Board of Governors for their approval:
1)  Creation  of  following  State  of  Art  Research  Facility  as  per  the  detailed  cost
estimates presented in Agenda:
S.No.  Name of the Facility
(Rs in Crore)
High Performance Computing Facility
Integrated Sensor Fabrication
2 (b)  Electrical Vehicle Laboratory
Industry 4.0 Laboratory
2)  The  actual  expenditure  on  creation  of the  State  of  Art  Research  Facility  will  be
restricted to Rs 32 Crores.
3)  The  expenditure  of  Rs.  32  Crores  on  creation  of  above  facility  would  be  met
through HEFA Loan.”
Item  No.18.2.8:  Applicability  of  House  Rent  Allowance  (HRA)  at  par  “Y”
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee  on
the  matter.  The  Director  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  nearby
Institutions are paying HRA to their employees at par “Y” Class city and Institute is
still paying HRA as an interim measure at par “Z” city which is causing hardship to
the Staff Members of the Institute . After detailed deliberations on the matter, Mrs.
Shuchi Sharma, Secretary, Higher & Technical Education, Government of Rajasthan
opined  that  Institute  should  pay  HRA  to  its  employees  at  par  “Y”  Class  city
considering the location of IIT Jodhpur campus within the Jodhpur (UA).
Further, Mrs. Sharma opined that the Institute should take up the matter regarding
inclusion  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Campus  within  the  Jodhpur  (UA)  with  the  Ministry  of
Housing  &  Urban  Affairs,  Government  of  Rajasthan  for  appropriate  action  on  the
matter.  Mrs.  Sharma  assured  to  pursue  the  matter  with  concerned  Ministry  for
21.3.3  To  consider  the  proposal  of  induction  of  faculty  with  non-academic  /
Industrial  background  as  Professor  of  Practice  and  Adjunct  Professor  of
The Director briefed the Board about the objective of the Proposal in detail. After in-
length  deliberations  on  the  proposal  of  the  Institute  and  to  provide  academic
scholarship  with  practical experience  to  the  students  and young  faculty  members;
the Board appreciated and approved the proposal, as proposed.
21.3.4  To  consider  and  ratify  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Director  towards
extension  of  tenure  of  Legal  Counsels  of  the  Institute  for  a  period  of  one
The  Board  ratified  and  approved  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Director  towards
extension of tenure of Legal Counsels of the Institute for a period of one year.
21.3.5  To  consider  and  approve  proposed  panel  of  experts  for  conducting
in  the  Department  of  Chemical
Selection  Committees  for
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  panel  for  conducting  Selection  Committees
for  faculty  positions  in  the  Department  of  Chemical  Engineering,  as  tabled  during
the Meeting and suggested additional name/s for inclusion in the panel of experts.
21.3.6  To  consider  and  approve  the  list  of  experts  for  the  selection  of  Non-
teaching positions (Technical) of the Institute.
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  panel  for  the  selection  of  Non-teaching
positions  (Technical)  of  the  Institute,  as  tabled  during  the  Meeting  and  suggested
additional name/s for inclusion in the panel of experts.
21.3.7  To  consider  and  approve  the  additional  panel  of  experts  for  conducting
in  the  Department  of
Selection  Committees  for
Metallurgical & Material Engineering.
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  additional  panel  of  experts  for  conducting
Selection  Committees  for  faculty  positions  in  the  Department  of  Metallurgical  &
21.3.9  To  nominate  two  members  on  the  Finance  Committee  of  the  Institute  for
its re-constitution as per the Statutes of the Institute
After detailed deliberations  on the names  suggested by the Members of the Board
of Governors  during the meeting and suggested by email, the Board of Governors
nominated  Mr.  Ashoke  Guha,  CFO  (MLCP  JV),  Delhi  International  Airport  P  Ltd  -
GMR Group and also resolved to retain Mr. S.S. Bhandari as Board nominee on the
Finance  Committee  of  the  Institute  for  three  years  from  the  date  of  nomination.
Also,  the  Board  of Governors  placed  on  record  the  contribution  made  by  Sh.  G.S.
Sood  and  Dr.  Gaurav  Harit,  outgoing  members  of  the  Finance  Committee  of  the
Institute for their continuous and valuable support throughout the years.
21.3.10.  To  suggest  the  names  and  approve  the  re-constitution  of  the  Building  &
Works  Committee  (BWC)  of  the  Institute  as  per  the  provisions  of  the
After  detailed deliberations  on the names  suggested by the Members of the Board
of  Governors, the Board  re-constituted  the  Building & Works  Committee  (BWC)  of
the Institute as below:
Professor Neeraj Gupta,
Central University of Rajasthan
Professor B. Bhattacharjee
Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Delhi
Mr. Ramesh Chand Jain,
Additional Chief Engineer (Retd.),
Jodhpur Vidhyut Vitran Nigam Ltd.,Jodhpur
Dean/Associate Dean (Infrastructure)
Also,  the  Board  of  Governors  placed  on  record  the  contribution  made  by  the
outgoing  members  Mrs.
Public  Works  Department, Government  of  Rajasthan,  Sh.  R.K.  Govil,  Former
Additional  Director  General  (Civil),  Central  Public  Works  Department  and  Sh.  V.K.
Bansal, Former Chief Engineer (Electrical) Central Public Works Department for their
continuous  and valuable  support throughout  the  years for  the  development  of  the
Permanent Campus of the Institute.
21.3.11.  Annual  Accounts  for  Financial  Year  2018-19  and  Annual  Report  for  FY
The Board of Governors noted that the final Separate Audit Report for Financial Year
2018 -19 was not received from CAG till date and Finance Committee made detailed
discussion  on  the  Draft  SAR  alongwith  reply  of  the  Institute  and  recommend  the
same  to  the  BoG.  As  per  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee  and
keeping in view the timeline provided by the MHRD for laying Annual Accounts for
the FY 2019-20 before the both houses of  the Parliament; the Board of Governors
authorized  the  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors  to  adopt  the  final  Separate  Audit
Report  on  its  receipt  from  CAG  on  behalf  of  Finance  Committee  and  Board  of
Alongside, the Annual Report for the year 2018-19 was presented before the Board
of Governors and after careful review of the Annual  Report; the BoG approved the
Annual  Report  and  directed the  Institute to  send  the  Annual  Accounts  and Annual
Report  for  the  FY  2018-19  to  the  MHRD  as  per  the  timeline  for  laying  before  the
21.3.12  Contribution towards Establishment of IIT Alumni Centre at Bangalore.
The  Director  briefed  the  matter  to  the  Board  of  Governors  in  detail  and  apprised
that  the Ministry  of  Human  Resource  Development vide  letter (No.19-5/2014-TS.I
dated 13 February 2018) addressed to all Directors of IITs conveyed the decision of
the  IIT  Council  (taken  in  its  48th Meeting  held  on  22  September  2014)  that  to
support establishment of an IIT Alumni Centre at Bengaluru, which would act as  a
platform for interaction between IITs and Industry, and also help in leveraging the
Alumni network of IITs, and requested all IITs to participate in the establishment of
this  facility  and  use  the  same.  And  the  MHRD  had  requested  the  Institute  to
contribute of Rs.50 Lakhs each.
The  Board  was  also  apprised  that  the  Institute  had  placed  the  matter  before  the
Finance  Committee  in  its  14th  Meeting  held  on  30  April  2018  and  after  detailed
deliberations  the  Finance  Committee  had  recommended  that  ”the  Institute  may
make  a  one-time  total  contribution  of  Rs.50  lakhs  in  two  installments,  from  the
internal revenue generated by the Institute. In this context, the Finance Committee
suggest to the Institute to explore possibility of paying the total sum of Rs.50 Lakhs
in five installments  of  Rs.10  Lakhs  per  year  spread  over the next five  years. With
the above observation, it recommended the proposal to the Board of Governors of
the  Institute  for  its  approval.”  and  the  said  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee was placed before the Board of Governors in its 17th Meeting held on 18
March  2017  and  the  BoG  resolved  that  “On  the  matter  of  Remittance  towards
Establishment of the IIT Alumni Center at Bangalore, it decided to hold the decision
on the same. The Board suggested seeking inputs from the other IITs on the same.”
The Director apprised the Institute that many IITs contributed for the establishment
of an IIT Alumni Centre at Bengaluru and the status the same was also presented in
the last  meeting  of the  IIT  Council.  The  Director  also  apprised  the  Board that  the
matter was also discussed in the Research & Development Management Committee
of the Institute in its meeting held on 14 October 2019 wherein it was proposed to
take  part  in  establishment  of  IIT  Alumni  Centre  at  Bangalore  to  boost  the
interaction with the Industry.
After detailed discussion on the matter and considering the fact that the said matter
was  endorsed  by  the  IIT  Council  and  MHRD,  Institute  may  participate  and
contribute  initially  of  Rs.25  Lakhs  from  its  Internal  Revenue  towards  the
establishment of the said centre.
21.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
21.4.1  Report  on  Faculty Members  and  Staff  Members  joining  and  resigning  from
The Board noted the report on the Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and
resigning from the Institute.
21.4.2  Adoption of Circulars of MHRD, Government of India
The Board adopted the circular of the Government of India.
21.4.3  To  apprise  the  progress  Report  of  the  three  companies  formed  by  the
Institute  to  promote  the  Research  and  Innovation  ecosystem  after
approval of the Board of Governors.
The Board noted the progress report of the Institute and appreciated the same.
21.4.4  Report  of  sanctioned  Research  Projects  to  the  Faculty  Members  of  the
The Board noted and appreciated the report on Research Projects sanctioned to the
Faculty Members of the Institute by various funding agencies from 25 May 2019 to
09 October 2019.
Institutions/organizations/companies by the Institute.
The Board noted the report of the MoUs/Agreement(s) signed by the Institute with
21.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
21.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors
(a)  Reports of Selection Committees
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG for Selection of 25
Faculty Members, one Scientific Officer and one Assistant Registrar as presented in
(b)  Reports of Review Committees
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  /Director  on  the
recommendation of the Review Committee(s) for 07 Staff Members.
(c)  Reports of Standing Committees
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  on  the
recommendation of the Standing Committee(s) for 05 Contractual Appointments.
(d)  Adjunct Faculty appointment /extension of term
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG regarding extension
of term of Professor Akshay Kumar Rathore as Adjunct Faculty in the Department of
(e)  Deemed Suspension of Dr. Vivek Vijay
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  on  matter  of
Deemed  Suspension  of  Dr.  Vivek  Vijay,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of
(f)  Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note.
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Notes.
21.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
21.6.1  Requirement of ERP System for the Institute.
With  the  permission  of  the  Chairman,  BOG,  the  Director  apprised  the  Board  of
Governors about the need of Automation in various administrative functions  of the
Institute  for  its  smooth  functioning  and  for  faster  disposal  of  various  processes.
Further,  the  Director  also  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  various  IITs  and
Govt.  organizations  are  using  ERP  System  and  its  various  modules  for  the
Automation of the various processes. The Board was also apprised that the BoG in
its  20th  meeting  held  on  11  June  2019  (on  the  recommendation  of  17th  FC)  had
approved the proposal of the Institute to utilize Rs.10 Crores from the Corpus of the
Institute  for  meeting  out  the  emergent  requirement  of  the  equipment  for  smooth
functioning and Institute has not made any expenditure from that fund.
After  detailed  discussion  on  the  matter  and  considering  the  need  of  the  Institute,
the Board  of Governors  approved  ERP  with  capital  expenditure  estimated to  Rs. 2
Crores  (out  of  Rs.10  Crores  from  the  Corpus  Fund  for  which  approval  is  already
sanctioned)  to  purchase  the  ERP  System  and  its  modules  from  IIT  Kharagpur  to
enable the Institute to make its various processes smoother and backed with latest
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur