Indian Institute of
28 August 2020 (Friday)
03:00 pm onwards
Board Room, lIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Minutes of 23r~ Meeting
28 August 2020 (Friday) at 03:00 pm
Board Room, IIT Jodhpu
State Innovation Council, Bangalore
The following members were present:
Santanu Chaudhury, Director,
H. P. Khincha, Chairman, Karnataka
Sanjeev Misra, Director, AIIMS,
Purnima Singh, Deptt. of Humanities & Social Sciences,
Jitendra Balakrishnan, CTO-Products,
S.R.Vadera, Professor and Head (PH)
Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R & D)
Mayank Vatsa, Deptt.
Richa Singh, Professor & DRC Chairman
Pradip K. Tewari, Visiting Professor
B.P. Kashyap, Professor and Head, MT
Ann Tiwari, Head, EE
Ankita Sharma, Head; HSS
Gaurav Bhatnagar, Head, Mathematics
Gaurav.Harit, Head, CSE
Ritu Gupta, Head, Chemistry
Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty,
Meenu Chhabra, Head, BB
Atanu Ghosh, Head, SME
Puneet Sharma, DRC, Chairman, Mathematics
Hart Narayanan, DRC, Chairman, HSS
Deepak Arora, DRC; Chairman, Chemical Engineering
Rakesh Kumar $harma, Associate Dean (R&D) & DRC, Chairman, CY
sushrntta Jha, DRC, Chairperson,
Ashutosh Kumar Alok, DRC, Chairman,
Anand K. Plappally, DRC, Chairmen, ME and Head (CETST)
Shree Prakash Tiwari, DRC, Chairman,
Appala Naidu Gandi, DRe, Chairman, MT
Kaushal A. Desai, Associate Dean (International
Samanwita Pal, Associate Dean (Students)
Somnath Ghosh, Associate Dean (Acaderntcs-Prs Program)
Suril V. Shah, Associate Dean (Academics-UG
Deepak Kumar M. Fulwani, Associate Dean (Planning and Resources
Generation) & Head, Centre for Technology
Debanjan Guha Roy, Civil and Infrastructure
Ranju Mohan, Civil and Infrastructure
shtvan Nirne, General Secretary,
P.G. Basak, Advisor
BB, Coordinator, MMT Programmes
& Officiating Registrar
Foresight & Policy
Relations & Outreach)
The following' members
I C. Venkatesan,
could not attend
B. Ravindra, Associate Dean (Infrastructure)
Umair Anis, Joint Secretary, Academics & Career Society
Gautam Jain, Secretary, Elected Representatives
are the outcomes
of the Senate Meeting:
: 'pen oor
~elcome by the Chairman
Irhe Chairman welcomed
expressed his appreciation
informed the Senate that
to all the faculty members for completing
to the 23rd meeting
II of A.Y. 2019-20
in online mode. The Chairman
the Senate and
the teaching and
join the institute
on 1st September
MBA classes have already been started from 3rd August 2020;
the new M.Tech., M. Tech.- Ph.D., M.Sc., M.Sc.-M.Tech.
Humanities, M.Tech. and M.Tech.-Ph.D.
the admission to the Medical Technologies
in Materials Engineering from A.Y. 2020-21.
and Energy, Chemical
the new programmes
2020 and attend
has also started
and Ph.D. students
classes in online
has been completed.
Irhe Senate members
and Associate Dean (UG)
in virtual mode.
showed their gratitude
to the Director and Associate bean (PG)
~onfirmation of Minutes of the 22nd Meeting of the Senate held on 3pt July
Irhe Senate confirmed
Report on Action Taken on declslons of the zz« Meeting of the Senate held
on 3pt July 2020
the Minutes of the 22nd Meeting of the Senate, as circulated.
Senate made at
below on action taken by the Institute
its 21st Meeting of the Senate held on 7 July 2020:
on the decisions of the
Proposed plan for Academic Year 2020-21
Proposal of starting of School of Artificial
and Data Science (AIDE)
to be sta rted fro mAY
Change of degree format
from two sided to one sided
of 10th Special BoG held on
22.2.6 Proposed curriculum for New M.Tech., M.Tech-Ph.D In Progress
in Materials Engineering Programmes to be started
from AY 2020-21
Proposed curriculum for B.Tech.in Materials Engineering to be started from
The detailed concept note was presented by Head MT. The same was discussed at
length. The proposalwas deliberated in detail and approved by the Senate.
p'roposal for Minor and Interdisciplinary Specialization for Undergraduate
The Senate discussed the following proposal in breadth:
Concept note for
specialization in Quantum Information Computation
and Computation for B.Tech. students
Interdisciplinary Quantum Information and
The Senate recommended to include a project
comments from experts with any additional materials are to be added.
in the course list. The
Concept note for
spt!cializati()n in Smart Healthcere for
Interd.sC:iplinary Smart Healthcare
The Senate recommended restructuring of core courses to introduce lab
components. The senate also suggested adding courses on medical ethics
and psychoneuroimmunology as elective courses.
in School of Management
The Senate suggested that the B.Tech. project may be aligned with
Entrepreneurship project to encourage technology Entrepreneurship. The
evaluation criterion may be well defined which may include a startup
pitch. Motivated students can be encouraged
to pursue Masters in
Entrepreneurship leading to formal startup at the end of completion of
Master Programme. Proposal
Entrepreneurship can be prepared and presented in future.
Concept note for Minor in Management School of Management
The Head (SME) presented the proposal. The senate recommended the
proposal. The senate also suggested that students pursuing dual degree
can be oriented towards Tech MBA as it would helpjhern
technology background more effectively in the field.
Concept note for Minor in Data Science Mathematics
The Senate reviewed the proposal and recommended the same.
specialization in Science of Intelligence
for B.Tech. students
Science of Intelligence
The Senate suggested that method and tool of cognitive
elective courses related Memory, Theory of intelligence,
in the course curriculum.
science could be
and Theory of Mind.
The Senate also suggested
in Robotics for B.Tech. Systems
The Senate deliberated
elective on social
on the concept
note and suggested
to include an
robotics looking at
the usage in the present scenario.
The Senate after detailed
The Senate also empowered
to be included or changes
the above concept notes with the
the Chairman Senate to take the
Proposal for replacing HSS life skill courses by HSS electives
trhe Senate discussed a proposal of the department
~or allowing old students
and approved the following:
the new curriculum in lieu of
(joined before the 2019 batch)
and Social Sciences
to do HSS courses from HSS
life skill courses. The senate
• Students will be allowed to take courses from HSS bouquet
• Also, students
can take any HSS courses offered as Open elective.
• Students who have a backlog in life skill courses or missed life skill courses due
to backlog in other courses may take any course from Bouquet or open elective
in lieu of missed life skill courses.
III, and IV.
New/Revised Courses by the departments/school
Type of Course
Course content of HSS Bouquets and Open HSS
New course on Self-employment
Revised Course content of Robotics
course name and content of Dalit Fiction needs revision .
The Senate discussed the course contents and approved the same with the following
Change of degree format
10th Special BoG held on 16.12.2019
The zr= Senate
the modified degree format was presented
from two-sided to one-sided
to the 22nd Senate. The 22nd
as per the decision of
Senate suggested the following modifications and the modified document was
the hologram to be placed little above
the barcode should be two dimensional;
there should be water mark on the paper
QR code may be placed in place of barcode if possible
Hindi translation may be verified by the language experts.
Irhe above modifications suggested by the 22nd Senate have been incorporated and
~he modified format was presented to the Senate. The Senate discussed various
the degree format and suggested removing CGPA from the degree
certificate. The Senate approved the degree certificate placed at Annexure '1'.
for Course Evaluation
in Management, Minor
Entrepreneurship, Dual degree, and PhD Prog. offered by - School of
Management &. Entrepreneurship
Pedagogy& Evaluation for MBA was approved by the Senate in its 20th Meeting held
on 22 May 2020 and 1 June 2020 along with the concept note. The School of
Management and Entrepreneurship has proposed this to be extended to courses
offered by SME for other
programmes as per departmental meeting and
recommendation of Head SME. Subsequently, the Academic Committee discussedthe
matter at its 30th meeting held on 26 August 2020 and recommended the-same for
consideration of the Senate. The proposal is as under:
1. Approved course evaluation scheme can be extended to programmes, namely,
Minor in Management, Minor in Entrepreneurship, Dual degree, and PhD
Program offered by School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME).
2. A proposal for allowing End Semester weightage from 0 to 40% for all SME
courses, as has been permitted for MBAcourses.
In case any faculty desires not to conduct an end semester exam for any
course, must have a proper justification and to have prior approval from
School Academic Programme Committee [SAPC].
4. Some alternate modes
for evaluation in lieu of End Sem Exam such as
evaluation by jury system or a panel of area faculty may be suggested for
5. Evaluation criteria should be shared with students along with the course
outline and once it is declared it should be frozen and should not be changed
6. Question paper should be prepared with a varied level of difficulty to
differentiate between the students in the evaluation.
7. Bloom's taxonomy evaluation can be followed in the assessment and
It is proposed to implement the same as proposed by the Head, SME in line with the
approved course evaluation criteria of MBA programme, SME proposes a similar
course-evaluation mechanism to be adopted for the courses offered by SME in the
programmes namely (1) Minor in Management, (2) Minor in Entrepreneurship, (3)
Dual Degree Programme, and (4) PhD Programme. The courses under
programmes [1.2.3] may be opted by students from all different disciplines at lIT
The Senate discussed the proposal
in detail and approved.
the same for
for the Ph.D. programme of SME
from July 2019 onwards. The Senate in its
2019-20 for the UG/PG students admitted
Evaluation for MBA were approved by the Senate in its 20th Meeting held on 22 May
2020 and 1 June 2020 along with concept notes.
held on 21 July 2019 approved
for all UG/PG programmes
the new regulations.
!The School of Management & Entrepreneurship
for the Ph.D. programme
in a departmental meeting and subsequently
in its 30th meeting held on 26 August 2020. The AC recommended
~he Senate and the Senate after detailed deliberation
is attached as Annexure 2.
offered by the School. The matter was discussed
in the Academic Committee
(SME) has proposed revised rules &
approved the proposal.
Proposal for confirmation of dates for 6th Convocation of the Institute for the
meeting held on 26 August 2020:
by Office of Academics
by the Academic Committee
28-29 November 2020; OR
5-6 December 2020
dates were proposed
to organize 6th
in its 30th
of the Institute
Chairman, Senate to decide the final date.
the dates and authorised
Restructuring of Student Gymkhana constitution for AY 20-21
each hostel's student administration
(SAC) was deliberated.
bodies that will also include formation
This will also enable equal
at the Institute
posts of Student Gymkhana,
of Associate Dean (students)
remain on hold. An Ad hoc committee will be appointed
of SAC and the associated constitution will be completed
Senate. The Ad hoc committee
for Student Activity".
The process of formation
2020. All existing
Faculty Advisors posts will
four student members and Associate Dean (Students).
act as the Chairman with one other
members will be nominated
batches to represent
proposed committee will act as a nodal agency for all student activities
upcoming UG Orientation
the same by November
will be known as "Ad hoc Coordination
Associate Dean (Students) will
faculty member being the convener. The student
PhD, M.Tech., M.Sc. and B.Tech.
by the general
of SAC and present
general student elections will be conducted by December
from the existing
proposed to prepare the constitution
The committee will consist of four
Following the approval
2020 to the Senate.
of SAC followed
It is further
!The Senate discussed the proposal
of SAC and the associated constitution.
in detail and approved
bodies. The Senate also approved
to dissolve the existing
~ode of Conduct for students for online classes and evaluation
in online mode.
and capacity to provide all students a flexible e-Iearning
and learning activities are planned in online mode,
In this dlrectton,
system to conduct
As the teaching
the entire academic
of e-resources, the conduct of classes and online evaluation, a new set of code of
conduct for the students is a mandatory requirement. The code of conduct for online
eaching and learning has been proposed.
1. Without permission,
is prohibited to share any documents and/or
communication that are exclusive to the course being conducted online with
outsiders or third parties.
2. Without permission of the instructor, it is prohibited to take screenshots of, or
record any of the e-resources used within the course conducted online in
synchronized platform. The instructor may, however, chooseto record sessions
for students to watch beyond the class hours. The instructor will clearly
announce it in advance if a session is recorded.
3. The sessions in any form will not be distributed to third parties outside the
institute and will only be stored in and made accessible only through institute
platforms. Exceptions can be granted if all who appear in the recording during
the particular class give explicit permission.
4. Students will handle privacy issues responsibly.
5. Hacking or any other means to disrupt
learning and evaluation
process/resources will be considered as mis-conduct.
6. Any means of malpractices during online examinations including while
participating in continuous evaluations is strictly prohibited and any such
incidents will attract severe administrative action. Students should not
collaborate with others while taking online tests or similar continuous
evaluation (unless directed by the instructor).
7. Plagiarism in any form for any online submissions for evaluation is strictly
8. Students should not deliberately or knowingly help or attempt to help others to
commit academic misconduct such as substituting for a test or completing an
assignment for someone else.
9. All copyright laws and protections should be respected and there should be no
10. Students must not share login credentials with anyone else.
11. Students must not knowingly upload any file or program that contains a
malware, virus, or other malicious code, otherwise disciplinary action must be
12. Students should not use anyone else's login account.
13. Students should not write, send, or display any information that' is hostile,
insulting to others, indecent or otherwise offensive.
The Senate deliberated on the proposal and approved for implementation.
Proposal of constitution of Disciplinary Committee
In its 14th meeting on 21 July 2018,
the Senate recommended constituting an
Academic malpractice committee as a sub-committee of the Academic Committee to
address the issues related to academic malpractices and to examine the casesas they
are reported and recommend punishments as per the guidelines approved in the
meeting or even make new recommendations for punishments for the considerations
of the chairman, Senate.
Moreover, based on the decision of the Board of Governors in its 18th meeting held
on 24 august 2018 (vide its resolution at agenda item 18.3.4), and the supersession
of the office order No.IITJ/DIR/2017-18/112 dated 30 March 20,18, the students
the institute was reconstituted with terms of
disciplinary action committee of
reference as: To consider recommending guidelines for possible deterrent actions to
be recommended by the committee and examine the matter in detail, as soon as a
report of students
within 72 hours of the incident being reported ..
indiscipline is received with the submission of
is proposed to dissolve the existing
Now for smooth and efficient
~cademic malpractice committee along with the Disciplinary action committee,
constitute Disciplinary Committee to examine and address any violation of academic
to be followed will be deliberated and formulated by the committee
with due approval sought
from the chairman, Senate. The committee should send
resolutions to the director
IThe Senate discussed the proposal
in detail and approved the same. The Senate also
suggested to appoint appellate authority to look into any appeal. Senior faculty for
~he appellate authority may be appointed.
Relaxation in Branch Change Criterion
~s per the current
regulation the movement of students from branch A to Branch B is
should not go below the 850fci of
limited by the fact
sanctioned strength. This criteria is restrictive for meritorious students of branches as
~hey may not qualify due to sufficient numbers of seats not being filled up in that
the branch A strength
IThe existing criteria under 16(e) in regulation reads as:
(e) In making a change of branch,
the strength of a branch should not fall below 85%
of the sanctioned strength and should not go above 115% of the sanctioned strength.
is proposed to relax the above criterion and by replacing the same with the following:
(e) In making a change of branch, the strength of a branch should not fall below 85%
of the actual strength and should not go above 115% of the sanctioned strength.
!The Senate discussed the amendment
who joined the institute after 2019 and approved the proposal.
in the academic regulation for the students
Recommendations to confer the Provisional Degree Certificate Award of
B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech., and Ph.D. Degrees to students, who meet
the 14th Senate,
the award of B.Tech., M.Tech. and M.Sc. degrees in
the following students met all academic requirements:
B.Tech.(SS) and B.Tech.(BISS) Programs;
in the B.Tech.(CSE),
(2) 47 students registered in the M.Sc.(CY), M.Sc.(MA) and M.Sc.(PH) Programs;
(3) 06 students
in the M.Tech.(BB), M.Tech.
M.Tech.(ME) and M.Tech.(MT) Programs; and
(4) 22 students registered in the Ph.D. Program.
(5) 07 students registered in the M.Sc.(CY), M.Sc.(MA) and M.Sc.(PH) Programs;
(6) 38 students
i~ the M.Tech.(BB), M.Tech.
M.Tech.(ME) and M.Tech.(MT) Programs; and
The comolete list of the said 235 students is olaced at Annexure 3.
The Senate discussed the proposal and approved issuing of provisional degree
certificates to students under Sr. No. (1)
- (4). The Senate also empowered the
Chairman, Senate to approve the issue of provisional Degree for students in Sr. No 5
and 6 upon completion of pending requirements.
Reporting, Adopting and Noting Items
Revised Academic calendar of Academic Year 2020-21
[The Senate discussed that
Senate approval on plan for Academic Year 2020-21 keeping with:
the Academic calendar
is prepared based on the 22nd
Requirement of ensuring 10 teaching weeks with 50 teaching days in each
List of Gazetted Holidays released by Government of India
Ensuring equal number of week days (Monday- Friday) in each Trimester, and
Students will have 10 days break post-examinations and before starting of the
[Thesenate suggested for more clarity the academic calendar. The suggested chances
have been incorporated in the revised Academic Calendar for Academic Year 2020-
21. The Senate approved the Academic Calendar for Academic Year 2020-21 as placed
IApprovals accorded by Chairman, Senate
List of Shortlisted
candidates for admission for Ph.D.
Provisionally selected candidates forPh.D.
Change in admission category- Pooja Rawat
List of Admitted and Waitlisted candidates for Ph.D. (Chemistry)
List of Candidates selected (Physics)
7. Change in admission type of Mr. Parveen Kumar (Electrical Engineering)
for Ph.D. program in Civil
Infrastructure Engineering in the category Full-time without
online/Part-time project sponsored
List of selected candidates for admission to Part-time (online) Ph.D. in IDRP
loT and Application Program
10. Shortlisted candidates
for admission to Ph.D. Science of
M.Tech + Ph.D Dual Degree
List of Selected candidates for M.Tech + Ph.D. (CSP & SloT)
List of Provisionally Selected candidates for M.Tech + 'Ph.D. (CPS)
List of Shortlisted candidates for admission to Ph.D (SST)
List of selected candidates to admission (QIC)
15. Admission type erroneously
of selected candidate-Rajarshi
List of candidates selected for admission to Ph.D. (IDRP-QIC) program
for Spot round admission for M.Sc. Programmes for AY 2020-21
seats in Physics
Fellowship (Chemical Engineering)
time Regular without
List of shortlisted candidates for admission to M.Tech.
in Bioscience and Bioengineering
Provisionally selected candidates for M.Tech. program in (1) Infrastructure
Engineering with Specialization in Energy (2)
in Environmental Engineering
in category Full
Engineering with Specialization in Energy (2) Infrastructure
Engineering with Specialization in Environmental Engineering in category
23. Offering admission with relaxation in cutoff
to fill vacant seat sin various
categories in Department of Computer Science and Engineering
24. Offering admission with relaxation in cutoff
to fill vacant seat sin various
categories in Artificial
Fee structure of M.Tech. Full time regular without Fellowship category
Fee structure of Ph.D. External category
Seat Matrix of MMT Programmes for AY 2020-21
for submission of Ph.D. Thesis
28 . Regarding publication requirement
for submission of Ph.D. Thesis
Online submission of M.Sc. and M.Tech. Thesis
29. Online submission of Final Thesis after Defense for M.Sc. and M.Tech.
Regarding last date of fee submission for M.Sc/M.Sc.- M.Tech. programs
or AY 2020-21
Extension of Thesis work
Regarding extension of Thesis work for Ph.D. students till 30 October 2020
Regarding extension of M.Sc. and M.Tech. students for Project/Thesis work
till 30 November 2020
Defer Ph.D. registration of new students
defer Ph.D. Registration
of new students
in lieu of Final
paper and three oral presentations
to allow submission of Ph.D. Thesis with one published research
conferences - Mr. Anuj
Grade Moderation Committee
35. Grade Moderation Committee
Issue of Provisional Certificates to the following students:
Minutes of Academic Committee Meetings
(i) Minutes of 29th Academic Committee
(ii) Min'utes of 30th Academic Committee
38. Grades submission timeline for Semester
II A.Y. 2019-20
39. Grades of Summer Term for A.Y. 2019-20
40. Grades of Semester
for A.Y. 2019-20
for Academic Year 2020-21 Semester
for Reassigning course codes and credits for M.Tech Project during
for online registration of all old students for AY 2020-21
for displaying important
for new PG admission for AY
The meeting ended with thanks to all the Senate members.
provides an account of
differences that SME IIT Jodhpur's PhD program design is envisaging over and a~~~!~;"HI.a.:~.
existing rules and structure for the PhD program. The additions and differences are mt~;o;l11~lm:tg~
at end of each section. If there are no highlights after a section,
program is following exactly the same structure and rules in the particular section.
indicates that SME's PhD
20.1 Categories of Admission
A candidate can be admitted in anyone of the following categories
i, Full-time regular
ii. Full-time sponsored iii. Part-time
However, all categories are not applicable for all PG Programs. Further, programmes can be
offered in a combination of these modes (like fully sponsored part-time program).
for up to full credit permissible per
i) Full-time Regular In campus student who can register
semester. A student supported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular
ii) Full-time Sponsored In campus student who can register for up to full credit permissible per
semester. The candidate is sponsored either by his/her employer or by self. A self-sponsored
candidate must have two years of relevant
iii) Part-time A part-time student
is a working professional who, while employed, attend regular
classes as per the schedule of the Institute. The student must be employed in the neighbourhood
of IIT Jodhpur. The student must produce a NOCfrom the employer for pursuing the programme
at lIT Jodhpur. The student can register only for a limitednumber
of credits as compared to a
full-time regular student.
iv) External A student working in an industry/R&D establishment/academic
equipped with the necessary research and library facilities. The employer must
student to stay in the campus to complete the minimum residency requirements.
institution which is
21.4 Change of Registration
from Full-Time to Part-Time/External
A student admitted to a full-time Ph.D. programme may be permitted to change to a part-time
requesting such a conversion must:
Ph.D. programme. A student
i) have successfully completed his/her candidacy requirement;
ii) get the request endorsed by the supervisor(s) and the DRC;
iii) produce a "No Objection" Certificate from his/her employer
for carrying out the research
21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program
e Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph.D.dual degree (Regular and Part-time/External)- 14 registeredsemesterswhich
may includemaximum6 semestersof Registrationkept Alive (RKA) after completionof the two semesters.
Tuitionfee post RKAwill be same as that of sponsoredcandidates.
e Studentsmay requestfor RKAto Dean(Academics)through DRe.
(a) The eligibility conditions given below are the absolute minimum. Departments may prescribe
to the approval of the Senate.
over and above, subject
(b) The number of admissions that can be made to any program shall be decided by the Senate
from time to time.
(c) Reservation of seats for various reserved categories
shall be prescribed by the Board of
20.2.6 Admission to PhD program (Regular)
(a) Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student
program in India or abroad,
organization in India or abroad.
and shall not be a full-time
in any other academic
(b) The applicant must have a master's degree in engineering,
CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST),
social sciences, management with at
least 60% marks or at
(c) The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with
MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at
least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA
for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor's degree,
(d) The applicant must have a bachelor's degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering
or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural science or veterinary
science or equivalent
with at least 70% marks or at least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST).
20.2.9 Admission to Ph.D (sponsored/external/part-time)
(a) Candidates admitted in this category shall not be a registered student
program in India or abroad.
in any other academic
(b) The applicant must have a master's degree in engineering,
CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST),
social sciences, management with at
least 60% marks or at
(c) The applicant must have MBBS with MD/MS, BVSc with MVSc, BDS with MDS, BPTh with
MPTh, BOTh with MOTh or equivalent with at least 60% marks or at
least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA
for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor's degree,
(d) The applicant must have a bachelor's degree of minimum four-year duration in engineering
or science or medicine or pharmacy or agricultural
science or equivalent
with at least 70% marks or at
least 7.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST).
science or veterinary
(e) The applicant must have a minimum of
in ind~stry/R&D laboratories/Academic
two years of work experience (after qualifying
the time of reqistratlon
(f) The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
24. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
Financial assistantship/scholarship will be provided to the eligible students admitted under
regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following:
24.6 Ph.D. Program : A regular Ph.D. student admitted to the Institute will be eligible for
financial·assistance as per the norms of lIT Jodhpur.
GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM(or equivalent) can have financial assistance as per MHRD norms/or
equivalent applicable for non-science departments.
(b) The requirement of GATE is exempted for an applicant with M.Tech or equivalent post-
(c) A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRDguidelines.
A Ph.D. student would be eligible for enhancement in the scholarship after two years provided
the student has met qualifier requirement. The enhanced fellowship will commence from the
date of completion of both the condltions. No arrears will be provided due to delay in completing
the qualifier requirement. The Teaching/Research Assistantship of a Ph.D. student shall stop
from the day of submission of the Thesis.
d) Full time post graduate degree of two years or more from an Institute of National Importance
(INI) with 70 % marks or equivalent
Candidates opting for PhD in management often have high opportunity costs. Only if we are
able to provide them with financial assistance can we hope to attract candidates who will be
able to pursue high quality research at SME.
26.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor(s)
• Ph. D. students shall be admitted in the department and no supervisor shall be assigned at the time of
• Allotment of students to supervisor(s) will be made based on the preferences of
the students and
• For both Ph. D. and M. Tech. - Ph. D. Dual degree supervisor(s) and area identification must be completed
by the end of the first semester
• The Convener, DRC (Department Research Committee)/Coordinator (Interdisciplinary Research Program)
would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s).
• There shall not be more than two supervisors, in general, for a student. Additional supervisor can be allowed
with the approval of Chairman, Senate.
• A supervisor
from outside the institute, before the qualifier, may be appointed on the request of
studenUsupervisor(s) with the recommendation of the DRC/IRC and the Dean (Academics) and approval of
the Chairman, Senate.
• The external supervisor will be requested to sign Intellectual Property Right (IPR) and Non-Disclosure
Agreement (NDA) documents as a part of acceptance. From the financial point of view the Institute will have
no obligation to the external supervisor.
26.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor I Additional supervisor
• Whenever the supervisor proceeds on short leave for a period up to one year, the DRC/IRC (Interdisciplinary
Research Committee) shall appoint a caretaker supervisor in consultation with the supervisor and the student
to take care of the administrative requirements.
supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor.
the supervisor proceeds on long leave for a period more than a year,
then an additional.
• The supervisor going on lien or sabbatical may continue supervising students and the supervisor can opt
for either an additional. supervisor or a caretaker supervisor .
• The supervisor on his/her retirement or on resignation may continue as a supervisor and will have to opt
for an additional
supervisor provided the student has cleared qualifier before the supervisor's
'26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC)
26.3.1 Composition of SRC
• The SRC will'normally consist of superVisor(s) and three other fatuity members conversant with the field of
research with at least one member external to the department (maybe outside the Institute also).
• A Student Research Committee (SRC)
recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by Dean (Academics).
the candidate shall be proposed by the supervisor(s),
• The SRC shall have one member identified as Chairman for administrative functions and the supervisor(s)
will act as convener. Chairman, SRC is to be appointed by Dean (Academics).
• The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester.
• Any subsequent changes in the composition of SRC shall be communicated through the DRC/IRC to Dean
(Academics) for record.
• Chairman and supervisor(s) shall be the internal examiners for the evaluation of the thesis.
• The SRC is expected to monitor the progress of the candidate until the completion of the program.
Statistics for Management
Business Research Methods (1-0-0)
c) Area Level Courses (12 Credits): Each area to decide its own electives. Students can opt for
electives of other areas in lieu of area's electives to support cross functional
Credits = 30+24 = 54
of "Business Research Proposal" which will amount
PhD students will undertake
research paper" and
to another 24 credits. Total'
26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM)
The academic progress of all registered Ph.D. students will be reviewed once in a year by the
SRC and peers in the institute. The review will be based upon
(i) Annual Progress Report and
(ii) A Poster Presentation open to all.
SRC will award a Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory
grade based upon (i) and (ii).
Two consecutive Non-satisfactory
lead to termination
conducting annual progress evaluation of research scholars.
convenience, academic calendar must
indicate two days in a year
Following the groupings of students and scheduling guidelines are suggested
1. For students joining in 1st semester of AY: During tst July to 30th September of the year.
2. For students joining in 2nd semester of AY: During 1st December
year. The first APM will be conducted after
processed by the academic committee and approved by Dean (academics)
progress or "Unsatisfactory"
record. Any situation
through the SRC for
the successful completion of qualifier
progress will be reported by the
in exception to the above will be
to 28th February of the
22.8 Academic Performance Requirements
22.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program The minimum CGPA
for continuation and graduation in a program is given in below Table 22.7.
requirements of Ph.D. Student,
The following four components together will constitute qualifier
Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship.
1. Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1
2. Cleared comprehensive examination
3. Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research
4. Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal
The Ph. D. students are normally expected to complete successfully the Qualifier requirements
before the beginning of the fifth semester of his/her registration in the Ph. D. program and in
any case notlater
than the beginning of the sixth semester after their registration in the Ph. D.
Part-time candidates will need to complete the qualifier requirement before the beginning of the
26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student
• The comprehensive examination must be designed to test the general capability of the student and the
breadth of his/her knowledge in the discipline and areas related to the field of research .
• The Comprehensive Examination shall be conducted by a Comprehensive Examination Committee of the
• The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers.
• Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive examination. Each paper will have
broad coverage of one essential sub-area of the department. The course content of these papers will be
approved by the academic committee and the Senate. The syllabus of papers for the comprehensive
examination will notbe the same as courses offered by the department;
it must be designed to test the breadth
of the knowledge in that area.
• The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement
three papers' may be selected from across the departments.
for a particular student. These
• The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the Ph.D. student within two weeks of
• All comprehensive examinations. will. be scheduled on two fixed days in a year. It can coincide with the
annual progress evaluation day of doctoral candidates. Students may decide to appear for three papers on
the same day or on different days.
• A student ..can app~ar
requirements and 'satisfied theminlrnurn specified CGPA requirement.
in the comprehensive ..examination before he/she has completed the course
• If the performance of th~ Ph.D. student in a comprehensive examination paper in the first attempt
satisfactory, he/she will be given one more opportunity to appear within six months of the first attempt.
• For clearing ofthe comprehensive examination, a student must perform satisfactorily in all papers.
Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students:
• Ph.D. : within 3 semesters
• Direct Ph.D. and MTech- PhD Dual Degree: within 5 semesters
Candidate will also defend the research proposal
26.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA)
is required to give a general seminar
Every Ph.D. student
of Art of
area. The presentation will be evaluated
in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal.
in the Department
research. The presentation must also include patent
covering the State
by the SRC. A candidate must have a satisfactory
the area of
SME proposes to have a '2nd year Research Paper' of 8 credits
26.5.3 Research Proposal
of SOTA. The research
research work worth
(report + presentation)
will be evaluated by SRC after successful completion
16 credits. SRC will allocate a letter grade based on the performance
The Business Research proposal
is proposed to carry 16 credits
• Synopsis will consist of an open seminar and a comprehensive internal closed-door assessment of the
research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC .
• The student can submit the synopsis only if the SRC is satisfied with the quality and quantity of the work
for submission as a Ph.D. thesis.
• Publications arising out of the thesis are to be submitted along 'with the pre-synopsis report.
• Students should submit the synopsis and thesis within six months of the open seminar date. If required, an
extension of three months may be permitted by Dean (Academics) on the recommendation of SRC.•
synopsis and thesis are not submitted in the specifled period, the student will be asked to present the synopsis
• On satisfactory completion of
the student shall submit the
the SOTA, the research work and the synopsis,
requisite copies of the synopsis of his/her research work in the required format through the supervisor(s} and
HoD to the Academic Section for consideration of the SRC. 40
the prescribed courses with minimum CGPA specified in 4.6.1,
• The student should have at least one paper either published or accepted for publication in a refereed
journal/refereed conference (SRC members are required to certify the quality of journals/conference).
i aper publication
for SME PhD will be as follows:
(egl:livalen1) and a case stud~
Q)_one A journal
and one B journal paRer (eguivalent):
26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation
shall propose a list of 10 examiners
Members from abroad and 4 Faculty Members
in which the student
should be followed
from India, who have the expertise
in the area
G The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience;
G No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and
CD The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, o! standing and repute.
G Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners. The Chairman, Senate, shall select
minimum two examiners from the proposed list, of which at least one should be an examiner from outside
India. The consent of these examiners shall be taken before sending the Thesis to them.
In addition, SRC
and Supervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis.
CD The Viva Voce will be conducted in the presence of SRC, supervisor(s) and the external examiner.
CD One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense.
CD The examiners shall submit a written report on the thesis within a period of two months from the date of
receipt of the Thesis.
G If both examiners declare the Thesis as acceptable for award of Ph.D. degree, the Dean (Academics) shall
request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student.
If any of the examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, the Dean (Academics) shall
report the matter to the Chairman, Senate, for further consideration. The Chairman, Senate, will refer the
Thesis to a third examiner under special circumstances; else the registration of the student shall stand
cancelled in the Ph.D. program.
CD If both examiners reject the Thesis for the award of the Ph.D. degree, no degree shall be awarded by the
institute, and the registration of the student shall stand cancelled in the Ph.D. program.
If an examiner suggests a revision of the Thesis,
within a prescribed ti,me period of 6 months in consultation with the Supervisor(s).
the student shall resubmit the Thesis after the revision
CD When both examiners recommend the Thesis as accepted for the student to defend the Thesis, or after the
resubmission of the Thesis after incorporating the suggestions/corrections given by the examiners,
student shall publicly present the Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis .
the Examiner from within India and other Faculty
• The committee consisting of Chairman SRC, Supervisor(s),
Members (quorum would be Chairman, SRC, Supervisor(s) and an external examiner), who participated in
the Comprehensive Examination of the student, shall evaluate the Thesis Defense of the Ph.D. student also.
On their recommendation, Dean (Academics) shall recommend to Senate, to consider the award of Ph.D.
degree to the student.
27. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
is deemed to have completed the requirements
laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below.
for graduation if she/he has met
The student shall be declared to have fulfilled the academic requirements
if she/he has earned
the minimum credits as per Section 22.3 for M. Sc., Section 22.4 for M. Tech., Section 22.5 for
M. Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Section 22.6 for M.Tech-Ph.D. Dual Degree and Section 22.7 for
Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09.
27.3 No Dues Clearance Degree will be awarded after obtaining No Dues Clearance from all
concerned sections as deemed necessary by Dean (Academics)
27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action The student shall not be considered to have completed the
if there is any case of indiscipline pending against her/him.
S.No. Roll No.
BHAMARE NIKHIL DARYAV5lNG
VARTHA DIVYESH YASHVANT
(HETAN PRAKASH MEENA
KULDEEP SINGH JANGIR
MA(HABATHUNI VIJAY SIDDHARTH
NARAMALA MOURYA MITHRA
NIRNE 5HIVAM (HANDRAKANT
PARATE ANIKET KI5HOR
SAl RIPALLYSAI SU RYA
5AN(H IT TALlYAN
5AK5HAM SANJAY BANGA
ADIT RAJ GAUTAM
AKHIL KUMAR SINGH
AYUSH MUKUND GUPTA
KASAR RAJAT SANJAY
MUKESH KUMAR DAS
PATIL RUSHABH HEMANT
PRAVENDRA S KHINCHI
PRAYRI KA SHARMA
RAKSHITH RAMAKANTH MALAPALLI
SOURABH KUMAR MEENA
YASH KUMAR CHOUHAN
DEEPENDRA SINGH BHATI
GULAB CHAND MEENA
JITENDRA KUMAR MEENA
NALE RUTURAJ SHIVAJI
PRESHIT AM ETA
SHIV KUMAR MUDGAL
SUBHAM KANT DAS
SUDHIR KUMAR KUSHWAHA
VINOD KUMAR SAINI
AVLEEN KAUR CHAWLA
PARIJAT PRATIM DAS
DEV PRAKASH J HA
. SATYAJIT DHADUMIA
VISHWAKARMA AMIT TUFANI SHAKUNTALA
PROSANTA MAN DAL
YOGENDRA SINGH NEHRA
KARTIKAY MANI TRIPATHI
RAJAT KUMAR CHAUDHARY
SANDEEP KUMAR YADAV
Mr. Vikash Chandra Janu
Mr. Kumar Rahul
Mr. Deepak Kumar
Mr. Amit Bhati
Ms. Rakhi N K
Ms Chandni Kurnarl
Ms. Nupur Rathore
Mr. Dileep Kumar
Ms. Shivanjali Saxena
Ms. Megha Singh
Mr. Satendra Pal Singh
Mr. Vikas Pratap Singh
Mr. Tushar Shankar Shinde
Ms Shalini Singh
Ms. Hargeet Kaur
Mr. Phdatare Hanmant Pandurang
Mr. Pravesh Kumar
Mr. Javid Naikoo
Ms Shraddha Choudhary
Ms. Hiteshi Jain
Mr. Rajesh Kumar
Enrolled in the
Office of Academics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Academic Calendar: Academic Year 2020-21 (Revised)
-Trtmester I Trimester II Trimester III
1. Fee link activation for next trimester
25 Aug 20
2. Last day of Fee payment
3. Registration of New PG students
4. Registration of all PG Students
5. Registration of all UG Students
6. Commencement of Classes
Late Registration and Last date of Add / Drop of
courses in lieu of dropped courses
from the Instructors
Finalization of Course Roll List
10. Fractal 1 Withdrawal
Last date for Fractal 1 courses and Feedback on
Last date of course withdrawal
13. Comprehensive week
14. Class Committee Meeting
15. Fractal 2 Withdrawal
16. Time Table committee meeting
Last date for Fractal 2 courses and Feedback on
18. Fractal 3 Withdrawal
27 Aug 20
31 Aug 20
29 Aug 20
25 Nov 20
26 Nov 20
27 Nov 20
21 Feb 21
24 Feb 21
25 Feb 21
26 Feb 21
1 Sept 20
1 Dec 20
1 March 21
7 Sept 20
7 Dec 20
8 March 21
8 Sept 20
8 Dec 20
9 March 21
11 Sept 20
11 Dec 20
12 March 21
17 Sept 20
17 Dec 20
17 Mar 21
22 Sept 20
22 Dec 20
22 Mar 20
30 Sept 20
31 Dec 20
5 - 9 Oct20
5 Oct 20
6 Oct 20
13 Oct 20
14 -18 Dec
5 Jan 21
6 Jan 21
14 Jan 21
13 Apr 21
27 Jan 20
27 Jan 20
19. Student Feedback for All courses
29-31 Oct 20
29-31 Jan 21
20. Last Day of classes/ Display of Pre-major Evaluation
5 Feb 21
8-12 Nov 20
8-12 Feb 21
22. Vacation begins for UGstudents
23. Online grade submission for all courses
24. Moderation Committee Meeting
25. Display of Grades to Students
26. Last date of submitting hard copies of grades
27. Vacation Ends
20 Nov 20
23 Nov 20
14 Feb 21
19 Feb 21
20 Feb 21
22 Feb 21
23 Feb 21
28 Feb 21
7 May 21
16 May 21
21 May 21
22 May 21
24 May 21
25 May 21
Lectures on the following days will be held with the schedule of the days mentioned against
Saturday, 05 Sept 20: Monday's Time Table will be followed.
Saturday, 03 Oct 20: Friday's Time Table will be followed.
Saturday, 31 Oct 20: Friday's Time Table will be followed.
Saturday,S December 20: Monday's Time Table will be followed.
Saturday, 26 December 20: Friday's Time Table will be followed.
Saturday, 30 January 21: Tuesday's Time Table will be followed.
Saturday, 20 March 21: Monday's Time Table will be followed.
Saturday, 3 April 21: Friday's Time Table will be followed.
Saturday, 24 April 21: Wednesday's Time Table will be followed.
will be observed as a working day
If the requisite number of lectures cannot be scheduled,
f the Government of India announces any additional Holiday on a working day, then one of the
with the students in their respective courses, decide on a schedule of extra classes.
examinations. Under extraordinary
scheduled on the days preceding the mid-semester/end
weekend after Fractal is over.
Summary of the total number of teaching days is given in the table below:
There will be no extra classes on Gazetted Holidays.
Saturdays and Sundays falling within the examination period will be used for scheduling
of some of the courses may be
Exams for Fractal 1 and Fractal 2 courses tentatively will be conducted in the immediate
the instructors may, in consultation
Distribution of Weekdays
Total nos. of Teaching
Gazetted Holidays in Calendar Year 20
Monday Mahavir [ayanti
7 May 20
25 May 20
Mahatma Gandhi's Birthday
Dussehra (Vijay Dashmi)
Milad-un-Nabi or Id-e-Milad (birthday of Prophet
Guru Nanak's Birthday
*May be changed, subj ect to any further order of Central/State Government,
* List of Holidays for Year 2021 has been taken from DoPT Order