Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Pre-Convocation 12th Special Meeting
21st November, 2023 (Tuesday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of Pre-Convocation 12th Special Meeting
21st November, 2023 (Tuesday), 12:00 P.M.
Board Room , IIT Jodhpur
The  following Members  were present in the Pre-Convocation 12th Special Meeting of  the Board
1.    Sh. A. S. Kiran Kumar
2.    Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.    Prof. N.S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur   Member
4.    Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
5.    Prof. Richa Singh, Department of CS&E, IITJ
6.    Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Department of BSBE, IITJ
7.    Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
8.    Sh. P. G. Basak, Advisor (Administration)
9.    Dr. Somnath Ghosh, Offg. Registrar
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, Representative of Govt of Rajasthan  and Smt. Saumya Gupta, JS (TE), MoE, GoI
could not attend the Meeting due to other pressing commitments.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:
SP.12.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Sh.  A.  S.  Kiran  Kumar,  Chairman,  BoG  welcomed  the  members  of  the  Board  of
Governors and called the meeting in order.
Institute Report by the Director, IIT Jodhpur
The  Director  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  IIT  Jodhpur  is  celebrating  its
9th  Convocation  TODAY,  i.e.   21st  November,  2023.  Dr.  K.  Radhakrishnan,  Former
Chairman, Space Commission & ISRO and Former Secretary, Department of Space
Government  of  India  has  kindly  consented  to  be  the  Chief  Guest
the Convocation Ceremony and will deliver the Convocation address. Prof. Indranil
Manna, Vice Chancellor, BIT Mesra and Former Director, IIT Kanpur and Dr. Vijay
Chandru,  INAE  Distinguished  Technologist,  IISc  and  Co-Founder,  Strand  Life
Sciences  have  kindly  agreed  to  grace  the  occasion  as  our  Esteemed  Guests.  Shri
A.S.  Kiran  Kumar,  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  given  his  kind
consent to preside over the Convocation Ceremony.
The Director requested members of the Board of Governors to grace the occasion.
Later,  the  Director  presented  the  brief  Institute  Report  before  the  Board  of
Governors as under:
1.  The Institute is offering 90 Academic Programmes from AY 2023-24:
2.  The  Board  of  Governors  was  also  apprised  that  the  present  student  strength
is 4554 in the AY 2023-24;
Initiatives undertaken by recently established Offices
The Director further apprised the Board of Governors about the Initiatives taken by
the recently established Offices at the Institute as below:
Office of Continuing Education Programme (CEP)
Short Term Programmes
Total Number of
Total Number of
Total Number Of Students
Total Number Of Students
Total Number Of Students
Office of International Relations
The  Director  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  IIT  Jodhpur  with  INAE  has
inaugurated  its  joint  activity  center,  “IIT  Jodhpur  Outreach  Center”  at
Gurgaon,  NCR  on  14th November  2023  after  approval  of  the  Finance  Committee
and Board of Governors.
The Board of Governors was also briefed that the Office of IRO has executed more
than 20 MoUs and agreements with Foreign Institute/University and major were :
1.  Agreement  for  a  Joint  Ph.D.  Degree  Programme  between  IIT  Jodhpur  and
University at Buffalo in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering;
2.  MoU between Drexel University College of Engineering and IIT Jodhpur;
3.  Cooperation Agreement for establishing a Joint IIT Jodhpur - UB Center of
Excellence in AI and Data Science;and
4.  Agreement between Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst (DAAD)
and IIT Jodhpur.
Office of Corporate Relations
The Director apprised the Board of Governors that the Office of Corporate Relations
is dedicated to augment the Institutes corporate relations, linkages and outreach.
The  office  is  entirely  dedicated  to  building  up  strong  connect  with  Industry,
Ministries and organizations for developing collaborative R&D programmes, finding
Industry linked fellowships and scholarships, internships, placements etc.
The  Institute  signed  67  MoUs  and  Agreements  to  foster  the  Industry  connect.
Some  of  the  key  collaborating  partners  include  INAE,  L&T,  IFFCO,  Pifore  Private
Limited,  Microsoft  India  R&D  Pvt  Ltd,  Bharat  Forge  limited,  DigitID  Technologies
private  Limited,  Vehant  Technologies  Pvt.  Ltd.,  Tata  Consultancy  Sevices  limited,
Rajasthan  State  Warehousing  Corporation,  JSW  Cement  Limited,  Secure  Meters
Office of Alumni Relations
The  Director  further  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Office  of  Alumni
Relations,  IIT  Jodhpur  expanding  its  activities  to  connect  with  Alumni  and  briefed
the BoG about following key initiatives:
•  The  First  IITJ  Connect  session  was  organized  in  Bangalore  on  26th  Nov
2022.  The  Bangalore  Chapter  of  the  IITJ  Alumni  society  was  formally
announced during this event. The Second IITJ Connect was organized in IIT
ACB  Building,  Bangalore  on  9th  Sept  2023.  Institute  has  secured  10
incubation  spaces  for  potential  incubates  and  outreach  space  at  the  IIT
Alumni Centre Bengaluru (IITACB) building;
•  Organized  Dashak on  18th – 19th March 2023: Recognizing the completion
of  10  years  since  the  graduation  of  the  first  batch  of  students  from  IIT
Jodhpur, the 10-year reunion for the classes of 2012 and 2013; and
The Director also briefed the Alumni Success Stories / Achievement to the BoG as
➢  Dr.  Anurup  Ganguli  (B.Tech.  ME,  Class  of  2013)  who  was  working  on  a
stealth  launched  VedaBio  with  an  initial  funding  of  over  $40  million
backed  by  lead  investor  OMX  Ventures  along  with  a  select  group  of  family
offices, including Kleinmuntz Associates; and
➢  The KuKu FM, the audio platform that revolutionized radio, established by
Mr.  Lal  Chand  Bisu,  Mr.  Vikas  Goyal,  and  Mr.  Vinod  Kumar  Meena,
who  are  Alumni  of  IIT  Jodhpur  recently  secured  a  substantial  investment
amounting to  $25 Million in series C  funding round  co-led by the Nandan
Nilekani-founded  Fundamentum  Partnership  and  International  Finance
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  brief  but  impressive  report  by  the
To consider and approve:
The  conferment  of  the  Award  of  B.Tech.,  M.Sc.,  M.Tech.,  MBA,
MBA-Technology, Masters in Medical Technologies, M.Sc.-M.Tech.,
and  Ph.D.  Degrees,  PG  Diploma  /  Certificate  to  students,  who
Convocation of the Institute scheduled for 21st November, 2023 at
IIT Jodhpur; and
the  various  academic  requirements  during
Award of Medals and Prizes to the meritorious Students during the
9th Convocation of the Institute
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Senate  in  its  36th
Meeting  held  on  16th  &  18th  November,  2023  based  on  the  verification  of
various  academic  requirements  for  the  award  of  B.Tech.,  M.Sc.,  M.Tech.,
MBA, MBA-Technology, Masters in Medical Technologies, M.Sc.-M.Tech., and
Ph.D.  Degrees,  PG  Diploma  /  Certificate
in  respective  disciplines
recommended  following  students  for  the  award  of  Degrees  /  Diploma  /
Certificates to the Board of Governors for approval and presented the final
programme-wise  summary  of  820  graduating  students  before  the  BoG  as
Name of Academic
5.    MBA and MBA-Technology
6.    Master’s in Medical Technologies
8.    PG Diploma / Certificate
Number of Graduating
*One  Ph.D.  Student  meet  the  academic  requirements  on  20th  November,
2023 and the Chairman, Senate approved the conferment the Degree.
(ii)  Medals  and  Prizes  to  be  awarded  /  given  to  the  meritorious
students during the 9th Convocation of the Institute
The  Director  further  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  on  the
recommendation  of  the  Student  Scholarships  and  Prizes  Committee,  the
Chairman,  Senate  approved  to  award  the  Medals  and  Prizes  to  the
meritorious Students in the 9th Convocation of the Institute as below:
B. B. Tech. students:
President’s Gold Medal (Best CGPA)
Chairman, Board of Governors, Gold Medal (All-rounder)
Silver Medal (Best CGPA among each branch)
Darshit K Jain
Director’s Prize (Best Academic Innovation work)
Director’s Gold Medal (Lady All-rounder)
M. Tech. Students:
Jagadish Chandra Bose Gold Medal (Best CGPA)
Perfect Ten Gold Medal
Silver Medal (Best CGPA among each branch)
Sujay B J*
Ish Kumar Jha
Venkata  Sai  Pavan
Ahsan Ul Haq*
M. Sc. Students:
Silver Medal (Best CGPA among each branch)
Perfect Ten Gold Medal
C. V. Raman Gold Medal (Best thesis work)
Mrs. Chander Mohini and Mr. Jeewan Kapoor Merit Prize
(Students of M. Tech.- AI and M. Tech. in Data and Computational Science graduating
with the highest CGPA)
Mrs. Krishna Devi Sanadhya Memorial Award
(The Girl Student of UG in the Deptt. of Computer Science and Engineering with highest
Computer Science &
* As per the norms of the Institute, a Certificate of the Merit will be given to the student
as the CGPA is less than 9.0
The Board of Governors suggested to review the guidelines of award of Best
Ph.D.  Thesis  Work.  The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the
Institute is giving medal for Best  Ph.D. Thesis Work to promote excellence
in  Ph.D.  and  the  practice  is  being  followed  across  IITs.  The  Director  also
stated  that  as  per  the  suggestion  of  the  BoG,  the  Institute  will  review  the
existing guidelines and put up before the Board of Governors.
The Board of Governors  approved the conferment of Degrees, Minor /
Specialization  Certificates  and  Award  of  Medals  and  Prizes  to
meritorious Students in the 9th Convocation of the Institute.
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur