22 March 2021 (Monday)
03: 00 pm onwards
Board Room and WebEx, lIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank intentionally.
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
.tflutes of 25th
22 March,2021 (Mo:nday) at 03:00, prn
Board Room and WebEx, IIT Jodhpu
The followlno members were present:
Santanu Chaudhury , Director,
H.P. Khincha, Chairman, Karnataka State Innovation Council, Bangaiore
Sanjeev Misra, Director, AIIMS, Jodhpur
Purnlrna Singh, Deptt. of Humanities & Social Sciences,
Souvik Bhattacharyya, Vice Chancellor, BITS PiJani
Jitendra Balakrishnan, erC-Products, Sterlite Technologies
S.R.Vadera, Professor, Head (PH)'.C;hajrman,
Surajit Ghosh, Professor and. [).e~n (R & 0)
MayankVatsa, Professor & ,ORC c;hairman (CSE)
Richa Singh, Professor & Head(CSt:)
Joydeep Dutta, Professor, SAIDE'
Neeraj Jain, Professor, BS
Oeepak Kumar M. Fulwanl, Associate Dean (PRG) & Head, CTFP
BIP, Kashyap, Professorend Head, MT
Arun Kumar Singh, Head, EE
Ankita Sharma, Head, HS
Puneet Sharma, Head, MA
Manikandan .Paranjothy f Head, CV
Krishna Kumar Balaraman, Head, SME
Pradip J<. Tewari, Head, CHE
Ranju Mohan, Head, CI
Gaurav Bhatnagar, ORe, Chairman, MA
Hari Narayanan, ORe, Chairman, HS
Deepak Arora, ORe, Chairman, CHE
Rakesh Kumar Sharma, DRC, Chairman, CY
Sushmita Jha, ORG, Chairperson, BB, Coordinator, MMT Programmes
Shree Prakash TiWari, Associate Dean (R&D)
Mahesh Kumar, ORe, Chairman, EE
Appala Naldu Gandi, DRe, Chairman, MT
Anand K. Plappally, ORC, Chairman, ME and Head (CETST)
Somnath Ghosh, ASSOCiateDean (Academlcs-PG Program)
surn V. Shah, Associate Dean (Academics ..UG Programs)
Samanwita Pal, Associate Dean (Students)
Amithav Mitra, Professor-in-charge
saptarsht. Mukherjeet SAIDE .
Mohcimrnad Umair Anis, General Secretary, Student Senate
Harikrishna K, General Secretary, Hostel Affairs
Sanal Jaiswal, General Secretary, PG Academic Interaction Council
.Kamlesh G~.ndhi, General Secretary,
I P.G. Sasak, Advisor (A(jministration) & Officiating Registrar
The follqwi:ng lT1f3mberscould not attend the Meeting,
C. Venkatesan, Professor-In-charge (Faculty)
Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, Head, ME
Meenu Chhabra, Head, BB
Ashutosh Kumar Atok, ORe, Chairman, Physics
Kaushal A. Desai, Associate Dean (IRQ)
The following are the outcomes of the Senate Meeting:
Part A: Open Door Meeting
rhe Chairman welcomed all the members to the 25th meeting of the Senate .
.. He introduced the new members Prof. Neeraj Ja.in, Professor, Department of
from liT Kanpur joined the
Intelligence and Data Science on deputation to the Senate
Bioscience and Bioengineering, Prof. Joydeep Outta,
School of Artificial
and welcomed them.
lIT Jodhpur conducted convocetlon successfully.
!The Chairman briefed that
Professor Geoffrey Hinton, the Father of Deep Learning joined as the Chief Guest
in the 6th Convocation of lIT Jodhpur and imparted convocation address, The
~hief Guest had also inaugurated the School of AI & Data Science.
" He informed the Senate that due to COVID19 chatlenqes,
the semester mode
.has been .changed to trimester mode for the ongoIng AY 2020-21.
The Chairman mentioned that
the student strength has increased and crossed
the targeted DPR framed by Govt, of India. The built ...up area has also increased
[among the second generation lIT to achieve the target as per DP~:.
is possibly the first
Irhe Chairman also highlighted that
~echnology hub -iHUB Drishti and R.akshak project as a part of
Executive Officer has already been appolnted.
lIT Jodhpur has successfully started the
it. The Chief
the Jodhpur City Knowledge and innovation Cluster
Irhis year the Govt. of India referred to 6 city clusters in the budget speech.
is an integral
~odhpur is also included as one of the city clusters.
includes academic institutions,
research organizations and .industries. The city
cluster projects focus on the Art and Craft, Waste Water & EnvlronmentPoltutlon
Management, AI Based Innovations in Governance and MedTech initiatives. A
scheme has been announced for internships at lIT Jodhpur through JCKIC and
this will be helpful to build a knowledge ecosystem. The Chairman also informed
the Medical Technologies proqrammes have been started in collaboration
with AIIMS Jodhpur and lIT Jodhpur.
The Chairman has also shared the outstandhig contribution of or. Ritu Gupta
Who received INSA Young Scientist Medal Award 2020 and SERB Women
Excellence Award 2021'. Prof. Surajit Ghosh has been awarded the SERB"STAR
award for 2020. Senate also congratulated Dr. Subhashish Bannerjee being
elected fellow of NASI (National Academy of Science, India). The Chairman
informed the Senate that IIT Jodhpur has got the BioNest project (with budget
of around Rs. 445.47 laks) from DBT which is first in Rajasthan.
IThe Senate appreciated the tremendous efforts by the Director and his team to
achieve the growth in terms of number of students, number of faculties and also
various initiatives in the form of Section 8 companies, cluster programmes,
admissions to casual students, etc.
25.1.1 Confirmation of Minutes of the 24th Meeting of the Senate held on 22nd
The Senate confirmed the Minutes of
the 24th Meeting of
the Senate, as
25.1.2 Report on Action Taken on decisions of the 24th Meeting of the Senate
held on 22nd November2020
The report is presented below on action taken by the Institute on the decisions
of the Senate made at its 24th Meeting of the Senate held on 22nd November
Proposal for Three-Year MTech programme
Guideline for performance improvement of credits Implemented
earned by Ph.D. students
Regulations for PhD and Dual degree in MedicalImplemented
Constitution of Student Affairs Council (SAC)
Elective courses for MBA and Ph.D.Implemented
Proposal for abeyance of probation and termination In progress
clauses for UG students for the A.Y. 2020-21
Recommendations to confer the award of B.Tech.,
M.Sc., M.Tech., and Ph.D. Degrees and B.Tech.
Academic Calendar for 1st Year B.Tech. students
Reporting, Adopting and Noting Items
6th Convocation of
scheduled on 6 December 2020
has been Implemented
for deferring the minimum performance
M.Tech.-Ph.D. and Ph.D. students for the Academic Year 2020-21.
As per academic regulation clause 22.8,
there are minimum performance
The existing requirements are
Program Continuationin Continuation
SGPA 6.5 (For first SGPA 6.5 (For
of For gradua,tion
first CGPA 7.5
completion of course
SGPA 6.5 (For first SGPA 6.5 (For
first CGPA 1.0
SGPA 6.0 (For
first CGPA of 5
In view of the prevailing condition of COVID-19,
the philosophy of grade moderatton, Some students may also opt for
~I' grade for not being able to complete the requirements of evatuation of a
it would be difficult
The matter has been discussed in 34tfi ACM held. on 17 March 2021
recommended the same for approval.
The Senate deliberated the proposal
continuation in programme and' continuation of fellowship/assistantship
kieferred for the ongoing trimester
exception. The Senate suggested that
the criteria for
is to be
til] the end of Academic Year 2020-21 as an
in detail and approved that
A warning should be issued to the students who failed to meet the above
The students mentioned in (1), should be mentored by their
25.2.2 Proposal to defer timeline to Complete coursework, Comprehensive
examination and State of the Art Seminllr
for Ph.D. students (July 20,,.9
As per academic regulation regarding qualifier
requirements of Ph.D~ students,
and SOTA including
coursework by 3 semester however, part-time Ph.D. students should complete
the Comprehensive examination and SOTA by 4 and 5 Semester
In view of the prevailing condition of COVID-19,
it would be difficult
iThe matter has. been discussed in ,34th ACM held on, 17 March 2021
recommended the same for approval.
rrhe Senate deliberated the proposal
in detail and approved the timeline to
and State of
Seminar for reqular Ph.D. students (July 2019·batch onwards)
is to be deferred
For the ongoing semester of Academic Year 2020-21 as an exception. The same
i.e. before July 202l.
can be completed within four
the qualifier has to be met by completion of four semesters.
25.2.3 Policy for course equivalence and proposal for constitution of Course
Equivalence and Credit Transfer Committee
in various exchange
a guideline has been framed to transfer
the course equivalence etc towards the degree requirement
As per the new regulations w.e.f. July 2019, provision has been created for
of credits as well as
In line of the same a policy for course equivalence has been framed
and the constitution of Course Equivalence arid Credit Transfer Committee has
been proposed. The matter has been discussed in 34th ACM held on 17 March
• ~021 and subsequent 16th ECS held on 19 March 2021 and recommended the
same for approval. Any changes during this process will be presented In the
subsequent Senate of lIT Jodhpur.
of PG students
~fter detailed deliberations
the proposal placed at
'Annexure-!. The Senate has authorized the chairman, Senate.to nominate the
Chairman of Course Equivalence and Credit Transfer Committee.
the Senate approved
Constitution of Student Councils
irhe Senate in its 24th meeting held on 20 November 2020 has approved in-
the new structure for students' activities named
prlnclple the framework
Student' Activity Council
the detailed constitution can be
Activities (CCAA). The Senate has advised that
worked out including the broad scope of activities and the legal part of it can be
presented in the subsequent senate.
(SAC) and Council of Co-curricular
the Students Senate was formed. The Student Senate framed the
constitution of both the student councils including the broad scope,of activities.
The final constitution of Student Activity Council (SAC) and Academic and Co-
currtcular Activity Council (ACAC) presented to the Senate. The matter has been
~iscussed in 16th ECS held on 19 March 2021 and recommended the same for
in detail on the proposal and decided that
Ifhe Senate deliberated
consntutton has to be prepared like an ordinance and suggested some changes
like amendment clause, partiCipation of Pw.p students representative etc, The
Senate authorized Chairman,
incorporating the suggestions and legal vetting. Annexure ..2
Senate to approve
Proposal for Minor and Interdisciplinary Specialization for Undergraduate
has been presented:
for Minor and Interdisciplinary
Proposal from Centre of Excellence (CaE) on Mathematical
for a Minor
~conomics, School of AI
School of AI
area in Mathematical and Computational Economics for
specialization in Science
Concept note for Interdisciplinary
of IntelHgence for B.Tech. students
Theories of Intelligence
Advanced Cognitive Processes
Methods and Tools for Science of Intelligence
The Senate in principle
approved the proposal
Mathematical and Computational Economics. A detailed concept note of Minor
in Mathematical and Computational Economics may be presented in the next
senate. Senate authorized Chairman Senate to approve the courses of
specialization in Science of
inclusion of suggestions of
Proposed Elective Courses .. Department of Electrical Engineering
Ifhe Senate discussed the proposal and suggested the Department of Electrical
their positioning and
Engineering to come back with justification of the courses,
the level of
the course 'contents in the
context of the needs of targeted learning outcome of any specific programme.
the courses after careful analysts of
C,ourses for Comprehensive Examinations
and Ph.D. students - Department of Chemical Engineering
As per clause 26.5.1 of the regulations for students from July 2019 onwards,
for registered M.Tech.- PhD.
-, regarding "Cornprehenstve Ex~minationof Ph.D./M.Tech-Ph.Q student;
The comprehensive examination must be designed to test
The, Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three
The Comprehensive Examination shalt be conducted by a Comprehensive
capability of the student and the breadth of his/her knowledge in the discipline
and areas related to the field of research.
Examination Committee of the Department,lIDRP.
Departments will offer at least 5 Papers for conducting a comprehensive
exarntnatton. Each paper will have broad coverage of one essential sub-area of
the department. The course content of these papers will be approved by the
and the Senate. The syllabus
comprehensive examination will not be the same as courses offered by the
th~,breadth of the knowledge, in that
The SRC will specify a set three papers as a comprehensive requirement
For a, particular student. These three papers may be selected from across the
Ph.D~ student within two weeks of SRC formation.
All comprehensive examinations will be scheduled on two fixed days in a
It can colnclde with the annual progress evaluation day of doctoral
candldates, Students may decide to appear for three papers on the same day
or on different days.
in the comprehensive examination before he/she
has completed the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified
The comprehensive examination requirements shall be intimated to the
it must be designed to test
A student can appear
If the performance of the Ph.D. student
is not satisfactory,
to appear within six months of the first attempt.
In a comprehensive examination
he/she will be given one more
For clearing of the comprehensive examination, a student must perform
paper in the first attempt
in all papers."
The courses for comprehensive examinations were presented in the Meeting of
the Academic Committee in its 34th Academic Committee Meeting held on 17
March 2021. The Academic Committee considered and recommended the same
to the Senate for its consideration.
Ifhe Senate discussed the proposal and approved the same.
Reporting, Adopting and Noting Items
for Academic Year 2021-22
"IThe Senate deliberated on the proposal and approved the Academic Calendar
placed Annexure-3. The Senate also suggested being ready with the plans to
conduct the semester-I of AY 2021-22 in partly online, offline and hybrid modes.
~n order to make the evaluation process very stringent and effective the Senate
decided to conduct
the end semester major examination in phvslcal mode.
Approvals accorded by Chairman, Senate
Admission to PG programmes
List of shortlisted candidates for admission to Ph.D.{Mathematics)
List of Admitted Candidates for PhD (Metallurgical
List of Admitted and Waitlisted candidates for PhD.(Chemistry)
List of Selected candidates for admission to PhD.(Electrical Engineering)
Provisionally Selected and Waitlisted candidates for PhD program with
without MHRD fellowship in Chemical Engineering
List of candidates selected for admission to PhD (IDRP-QIC) program
for list of selected candidates for PhD (Dept. of CSE)
List of candidates selected for admission to PhD (Physics) Program
List of shortlisted candidates for admission to PhD' (Digital Humantttes-
Year 2020-21 session II
list of candidates shortlisted for PhD admission in Academic
List of Admitted Candidates for PhD (MT)
for approval PhD admission in the regular category without
list of Shortlisted candidates for admission to PhD (lnterdisci plinary
Research Platform, Smart Health Care) program
for approval PhD admission in the regular category without
Shortlisted candidates for admission to PhD (ME)
List of ShortUsted candidates & Waitlisted candidates for admission to
PhD (BB) program
List of Shortlisted candidates for admission to PhD (HSS) program
None of candidates shortl isted for admission to PhD (Science of
List of shortHsted candidates for admission to M.Tech (AI) Executive for
List of '.selected
of Admitted Candidates for PhD (IDRP
on Space Science &
Final results of Interdisciplinary PhD in RobotiCS and Mobility System
List of selected candldates for admission to PhD (CSE)
Roster and Revised Guidelines for PG admissions
Department-wise roster for PhD admissions for February 2021 session
Revised Guidelines for PG admissions and Admission forms
cenversten of full time Ph"D. into Part-time
into Part-time Ms. Divya Srivastava
(P15VSSOO1) as the student selected as Associate Project Developer,
new PG students
difference amount has to be adjusted in Trimester-II AY 2020-21.
in AY 2020-21
fee and the session started in Trimester Mode so the
The Tuition Fee for Trimester-II
(M20ME001) paid from the Project No. C/ASTE/CV20180016
AY 2020-21 of Mr. Abhinay Kumar
The Tuition Fee for Trimester-II
(M20ME001) paid from the Project No. C/ASTE/CV20180016
AY 2020-21 of Mr. Abhinay Kumar
K.R., Dr. Ramesh K. Metre, Department of Chemistry,
Avanish Srivastava, Defense Lab. Jodhpur.
in the domain Radar
Inks and Printing Technologies under supervision of Dr. Ravi
IIT] and Ora
Joint coUaboration and allocation students in the domain Heat exchange
modelling and design under supervision of Dr. Kothadia Hardikkumar
IITJ and Sh. Robin Mondal, Defense Lab. Jodhpur.
Minutes of Meeting
Minutes of 32nd Academic CommIttee Meeting held on 16 November
Minutes of Meeting of 11th ECS
Minutes of Mee,ting between AIIMS Jodhpur and lIT Jodhpur
Program on Medical Technologies held on 30th December 2020
Minutes of Meeting between AIIMS Jodhpur and lIT Jodhpur
Program on Medical Technologies held on 8th January 2021
Minutes of Meeting AIIMS Jodhpur and IIT Jodhpur for Joint program on
Medical Technologies held on 05.02.2021
Registration for AY 2020-21
for the registration as
Allowing Ms Basanti Meena, preparatory student
the student couldnot appeared for the registration as per the schedule.
Students for PG Programmes (3 nos)
of External Students
Individual Courses as Casual
Regarding Registration Dates for Trimester
Issuance of certificates
Issue of Provisional Certificate to four students those defended thesls..
Request to issue Provisional Certificate (3)
Request to issue Certificate_Devika & Parveen
to issue Provisional Certificate
to issue Provisional Certificate
Request to issue Provisionar Certificate
to issue Provisional Certificate
Issuance of trimester ...wise Grade sheets and Transcripts for AV 2020-
Issuance of NOe to Mr., Yash Kumar Singhal
at TCS Innovation Labs-Delhi
in remote mode
Issuance of NOe to Ms Sweta Tiwari
Request to issue Provisionar Certificate (4)
Best PhD. Thesis Award for 2020
Approvatfor Minor 2 Examination of Medical Technologies Program AV
2020-21 Semester I
for Timeline for Examinations during Trimester nAY; 2020-21
for Term-'I Examination
of M'BA Program AY 2020·21
for Major Examination of Medical Technologies Program AY
Schedule of Examination for Trimester
...11Academic Year 2020-21 ()..
through Google classroom on 6th February 2021
for approval of conducti n9 major examination
for Minor-I Examination of Medical Technologies program AY
for Term -II Examination
of MBA Program AY 2020-21
Regarding Continuation Grade in thesis for Before 2019 PhD Students
grade in Thesis for M.Tech. Students enrolled
Grades of Make-up Examination, E & I Grade examination, Thesis and
Non-Graded courses of Semester II, Academic Year 2019-20
Schedule of E to 0 Grade Examination for Trimester
Grades of Trimester
I Semester I (for MBA) of Academics Year 2020-21
Grades submission timeline for Trlmester-H AY 2020-21
Grades of E to 0 conversion and I grade Examination of Trimester-I AY
examination (December 2020)
KachuLP19HSSOO 1 appeared
Comprehensive Examination and SQTA Presentation
for an extension the timeUne for
for second chance for
Honorarium to guest faculty
honorarium to the following guest
faculty members (1)
Extension of deadlin"e for applications
Approval of extension of deadline to submit online applications for part-
Intelligence) program for working professionals
Extension of SOTA
for the extension of SOTA Deadline till 31 March 2021
Deadline for Comprehensive, SOTA and Qualifier
M.Tech.-Ph.'D . and Part Time Ph.D. students
Regarding extension for Submission of Thesis work without
fee for AY
Extension for fee payment of AY 2020 ...21 semester-II
Request for extension for Thesis Submission - P16CS003_Shreya Goyal
Regarding extension of PhD students for Completion of State of the Art
till 31 January 2021 for the students who joined in the July
Extenslon_, to appear
for State of
- Somanka Maiti
Extension to appear for- state of Art Seminar-Prasad N Dal(P19MEOO8)
Extension to appear for State of the Art Seminar - Vaibhav Valshnav
B.Tech project Evaluation for B.Tech 2017 final Year Students
Rules and Regulations for conduct and Evaluation of M.Tech_M.Tech ....
PhD._M.Sc. Project for the students-who joined on or after July 2019
Forms for report M.Sc, M.Tech. and - PhD Project Evaluation
Remuneration to Examiners ofthe PhD Thesis
to Examiners of the PhD Thesis ~I
Remuneration to Foreign Examiner of the PhD Thesis equivalent
Dr. Neeraj Kumar Singh
to INR ..
the approval of advertisement
Intelligence) program for working professionals,
for part-time M.Tech.
Seat Distribution for M.Tech Programs
Coordination Committee for Executive M..Tech. Artificial
fellowship to PhD students
Regarding the fellowship of Medical Technologies programme AY 2020-
Floating of Self-Study courses
'Request to float Self ...study courses during Trimester n of AY 2020-21~
Request to float Self-study courses during Trimester-III AY 2020 ...21
for M.Tech.-Phd Admission for AY 2021-22,~'
Digital Humanities (IDRP) Advertisement
SRC updation Ms. Jaspreet Kaur(P11CSOO1)
JIe for lEE (Advanced) 2021 at lIT Hyderabad
for travel by private airlines services to attend 2nd meeting of
Consent for accommodating five students nominated by DTS Rajasthan
under KARYA program
100 Committee for preparation of courses of study booklet
Slot System for the AY 2020-21 Trimester
Inclusion of Selected topics courses, in Program Elective Bouquet
. M.Tech Program offered by Department of ME
from July 2019 onwards
for submission of Research Proposal for PhD students regIstered
104 Withdrawal of course Digita'
for Undertaking to add the courses - reg.
Special topic in CS Course
Seat Matrix for the AY 2021-22
Students have given some reasons to not submit
for the Feb..Jun 2021
the course fee on time
Format and Guidelines for submission of Project report 'for M~Sc._M.Sc.-
M.Tech._M.Tech. and M.Tech.-PhD
Regarding update the PhD Form
representatives in the senate
Applied for casual student
forthe AY 2020-21 Trimester-III
Student Ms. Anggy Eka Pratiwi (P20CS002)
for continuation of PhD program ..... ASEAN ... International
1.15 Regarding inclusion of addition program electives for PG programs (2)
Regarding the list of program Elective courses available to the students
of B.Tech CSE
Mahapara Khurshld (P19CS206)
for extra chance to appear
for comprehensive exam - MS4
Minutes of Meeting
118 Mi'nutes of 22nd Academic Committee
Executive Com.,-.ittee of Senate
119 Minutes of 10th Executive Committee of Senate held on 26 November
120 Minutes of 11th Executive Committee of Senate held on 18 December
121 Minutes of 12th Executive Committee of Senate held on 1 January 2021
122 Minutes of 13th Executive Committee of Senate held on 18 January
123 Minutes of 14th Executive Committee of Senate held on 2 February 2021
124 Minutes of 15th Executive Committee of Senate held on 1 March 2021
125 Minutes of 33rd Academic CommIttee Meeting held on 21 January 2021
126 Minutes of 34th Academic Committee Meeting held on 17 March 2021
The Senate ratlfted the approval accorded by the Chairman senate
Any other Item with the prior permission of the Chairman
The Senate decided to caU 9 special senate meeting to discuss the vision, mission
The meeting ended with thanks to Chairman and all members.
GRADE/GPA EQUIVALENCE POUCY:
at lIT Jodhpur,
into CGPA if the primary method of evaluation followed in the graduating
the conversion factor of 10 would
is, the percentage will be divided by
the primary method of evaluatIon followed in the graduating/previous/visiting
For the purpose of admission/transfer
be used for converting' percentaqe to CGPA, that
10 to convert
institution of the candidate seeking admission is percentage marks.
institution of the candidate seeking admission to lIT Jodhpur
scale; then the following linear interpolation formula will be used:
where CGPA is computed on a 10' point scale and CGPAN is computed on an N-point
scale. Some representative conversions utilizing the above formulas are given in the
is CGPA on an N-point
The CGPA of all
multiplying the CGPA by a factor of 10.
!IT Jodhpur graduates can be notionally converted
to percentage by
Course Equivalence Policy (For Transfer):
.For the undergraduate students goIng under student exchange programs,
equivalence policy will be applicable as per Section 10.3 of the Academic Regulations.
academic institute can be considered as equivalent
The course equivalence committee will oversee
to any approved
course in lIT Jodhpur by considering different
the committee find deems
credit structure, contact hours, course' content,
committee win make the recommendations for the approval of the Chairman, Senate.
components etc.) on a case-to-case
instance, credit definitIon,
the courses done at
Course Equivalence and Credit Transfer Committee will include
Professor nominated by Chairman, Senate' as Chairman
Dean Academics/Associate Deans, Academics
Head of concerned Department
Program Coordinator of the concerned student
Chairman, ORe of the concerned Department
FIe (G&R) as convenor
Special Invitee (Concerned Course Instructor)
Previous Dean! Associate Deans, Academics
Previous FIC (G&R)
(for M.Tech./Ph.D. student)
Transfer Rules for PhD students:
Minimum eligibility criteria of the Department must also be fulfilled for the same.
The credits to be transferred will be determined by the course equivalence and
credit transfer committee.
The norms related to transcripts, grade sheet and CGPAcalculation will be similar-
to the Student Exchange norms mentioned in Section 103 of the academic regurations.
Course equivalence between old and new curriculum for similar courses
Dean/Associate Dean (Academics) will address such issues case-to-case basis and send
for the approval of the Chairman Senate
Courses of old curriculum no longer being offered (closest being offered)
Dean/Associate Dean (Academics) will address such issues case..to-case basis and send
for the approval of the Chairman Senate
PG Student Exchange Program:
Student Exchange Program provides for a maximum of one year (MTech/MScjPhD) visit
by students between the two academic institutions on a reciprocal basis. The visiting
student must be a full-time
student enrolled in a degree program in their Home
Institution. The PG student exchange program is open to full-time PG students of each
an MoU) between the institutions.
It will be executed as per the pre-approved arrangement
under such program wrtl be made by the DRe/IRC on
of SRC (for Ph.D. and M.Tech.-Ph. D. students) after assessing the
to the enrotled degree program ..A visiting student may carry out
research or take courses for credit or otherwise. or may use other academic facilities as
per pre-approved arrangement
and the relevance of
(including an MoU).
Under exchange program, a student of IIT Jodhpur can register at another academic
in India or abroad upto the maximum credits per semester as per the
regulations as certified by SRC (for Ph.D: and M•.Tech....Ph.D. students) and approved
in lieu of the coursework or research work through a pre-
by ORe (for all PG students)
including an MoU.
transcript of the grades obtained by her/him at the vIsited academic institution
the student may apply to DRC/IRe through SRC (for Ph.D. and M.Tech.-
for waiver of credits from her/his program requirements which s/he
to the courses successfully completed at the visited academic
the student must submit an
thinks are equivalent
institution as an exchange student. With the application,
as an exchange student and other documents/matertal
may require for evaluation. The DRe/IRe will determine, by whatever means it deems
fit, the equivalent credits requirements for which the student may be given a waiver
her/his programme at IlT Jodhpur. ORC/IRe will submit
its recommendations to course
equivalence committee for its approval. The course equivalence and the credit
will take place as per the norms mentioned in the previous sections.
the concerned DRC/IRC ".
Constitution of Student Councils
Indian Institute of Tecbnology Jodhpur
Table of Contents
Constitution of Student Councils
Student Activif.y Council
Terms of Reference
Composition of SAC
Constituent Bodies identified under SAC
Functions of SAC
Academic and Co.Curricular Activity Council
Terms of Reference
Terms of Reference
of Student Senate
of Student Senate
The Student Body represented
and Academic and Co-curricular Activity Council
will be the key instrument
of the cam pus community.
through Councils - Student Activity Council
is being set up with the
they can actively
social and cultural ecosystem at lIT Jodhpur. These councils
between various sections
Student Activity Counell
Terms of Reference
related to student non-academic
The SAC shall function as the central body which shall review and implement
It shall primarily
It shall ensure coordination
activities at lIT Jodhpur.
the students, manage
between General 'Student Body and other relevant
for 'smooth organization of various
ensure an enriching
hostel and campus
Dean, Student Affairs (Convener)
Associate Dean, Student Affairs (Co-Convener)
Dean, International Relations and Outreach
Chairman, Student Wellbeing Committee
Presidents of Boards identified under SAC
Vice Presidents of Boards identifiedjmder
General Secretary, Student Senate
Genera] Secretary, SAC
Deputy Registrar, Accounts
Deputy Registrar, Stores and Purchase
Deputy Registrar, Office of Students
Two nominees of Senate (Faculty nominated by Senate)
Four PO Representatives
All Hostel General Secretaries
- One married student
One representative for differently abled students
Constituent Bodies identified under SAC
The Institute level student bodies presently identified under the SAC are
a) Board of Hostel Affairs
b) Board of Art and Culture
c) Board of Literary Affairs
d) Board of Student Sports
e) Board of Student Welfare
Each Board shall be an Institute level student body that shan organize and
manage a particular sphere of student activity.
Each Board shall have a President, appointed by the Director; who shall be
a faculty member of the Institute, and a Vice President, elected as per the
Constitution of the respective Boards who shall be a student.
identified under SAC shall have their own sphere
Each Board shall have its own identified Societies and Committees.
as directed by SAC.
Each Society will have a Mentor appointed by the Director
with the Deanfs), who shall be a faculty mem ber of the Institute, and a Student
Co-ordinator, elected as per the Constitution of the respective Boards who
shall be a student.
SAC can modify/dissolve
Each Committee will have a Chairman, whushatl be a faculty member of the
Institute and a Student convener, both appointed by the SAC.
The terms of reference of each Society/Committee are decided by the Board
and the same shall be ratified by the SAC.
any existing committee, and can also create new
vii. . For Board of Hostel Affairs,
the Society shall be read as Hostels, and Student
Co-ordinator shall be read as Hostel General Secretary.
Functions or the SAC
among lower-level bodies present
and selection of Council members
the structure of constituent Boards of
To make decisions
Student Activity Council.
To allocate powers and responsibilities
within the Council.
To propose and approve addition, modification, or deletion of new Boards,
and Societies within the Council.
To propose changes in the constitutional provisions of SAC.
To compile the Student Activity budget and approve the allocation of funds
among the various Boards and Societies.
whenever deemed necessary ~
To mentor Boards to undertake activities that foster the spirit of camaraderie,
loyalty, and discipline among the Students.
To promote organizational
To promote practices for a well-informed and articulate student community
with high moral, ethical, andsocial values.
To ensure the Bodies function in a free, fair, and transparent manner without
To make necessary provisions and arrangements
Sports and Social Connect
against gender, caste, religion, or economic status.
in core and open category elective.
for courses in Creative Art,
'abilities amongst Students.
and review the activities
Academic and Co-Curricular Adivity Council
Terms of Reference
The ACAC shall be the apex forum for student opinion on the academic, co-
initiatives and activities of
The Council will interface between the administration and the student body for
Composition of ACAC
H. Dean(s), Academics (Convener)
Associate Dean(s), Academics (co-convener)
Dean, Student Affairs
Dean, International Relations and Outreach
Dean, Research & Development
Faculty-In-Charge (FIe), Society for Alumni Affairs
Presidents, Boards identified under ACAC
Vice Presidents of Boards identified under ACAC
General Secretary, Student Senate
General Secretary, ACAC
Deputy Registrar, Office of Academics
Deputy Registrar, Office of Students
Deputy Registrar, Accounts
Deputy Registrar, Stores and Purchase
Two Senate nominees (Faculty nominated by Senate)
- One married student
Four PO representatives
One representative for differently abled students
Constituent Bodies identified under ACAC
The Institute level student bodies identified presently under the ACAC are
Board of Academic Interaction
Board ofCo ...Curricular Affairs
iii." Board for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Board of Departmental Societies
Board of Career Development
Society for Alumni Affairs
Each of the Boards identified under ACAC shall be an Institute level
student body that organizes activities and addresses concerns pertaining to
Each Board shall have a President. who shall be a faculty member of the
Institute, appointed by the Director, and a Vice-president, who shall be a
student, elected as per the Constitution
of the respective Boards.
elected as per the Constitution
as directed by ACAC.
under ACAC shall have their own
Each Board shall have its own identified Societies
sphere of activities/mandate
Each Society will have a Mentor appointed by the Director
with the Dean(s), who shall be a faculty member of the Institute, and a Student
of the respective Boards who
shall be a student.
ACAC can modify/dissolve
Each Committee will have a Chairman, who shall be a faculty member ofthe
Institute and a Student convener, both appointed by the ACAC~
The terms of reference of each Society/Committee
and the same shall be ratified by the ACAC.
are decided by the Board
and can also create new
any existing committee,
Functions and Working of the ACAC
raised by students regarding academic programs;
for earning design credits.
for inclusion of co-curricular
process and evaluation scheme.
the General Student Body at all academic
and review student co-curricular
platforms whenever necessary.
To address concerns
To ensure active promotion of innovation and entrepreneurship
To review the policies adopted by the Departments
programs and co-curricular
To motivate the General Student Body for the representation
local, national, and international
student academic activities
activities after thoroughly
sPanning over various
demands and aspirations of the General Student Body (GSB).
of institute at
in respective domains.
to the Institute bodies related to academ ic
Ensure co-curricular activities to compliment
imparted at the Institute for the overall development of Students.
the technical education being
The Student Senate will discuss student related issues including those which
require amendments of policies ofthe Institute, SAC and ACAC.
It will act as a platform for discussion on all curricular, co-curricular and
extra-curricular student activities.
It will be the voice, and the ultimate representation of the General Student
Body in the Institute's policy decisions.
of Student Senate
Structure of Student Senate
a. General Secretary, Student Senate
b. General Secretaries, SAC & ACAC
c. AllHostel General Secretaries
d. Elected Representatives of Students (ERS)
The Elected Representatives of Students (ERS)
from different electoral
colleges distinct from the hostelswillcomprise of four undergraduate (UG)
representatives and four postgraduate (PG) representatives.
ERS should have 50% female representation.
The GeneralSecretary, Student Senate or any other Senator in consultation
with the General Secretary, Student Senate may invite non-members to a
Student Senate meeting. These invitees shall not have any voting rights.
of Student Senate
The Student Senate will exist as a direct.point of contact for any issues
of the students of Il'FJ.
The Student Senate will act as the representation of General Student
Body as a whole in all matters relevant for the students.
The Student Senate shall work with the councils through General
Secretary SACIACAC for addressing concerns of students.
The Student Senate shall act as a bridge between the student community
and the administration of IlTJ and shall ensure effective coordination
Roles and Responsibilities
Chairman .. SAC, ACAC
shall be the Chairman of both SAC and
shall preside over ACAC meetings.
is unable to chair, he/she can nominate
The Director of lIT Jodhpur
The Chairman shall preside over the meetings of the councils.
absence, Dean (Student Affairs) shall preside over SAC meetings,
If the Director
to chair the councllfs)
decision process, and also in General Body Election.
The Chairman shall appoint Committees
and ACAC if deemed necessary.
The Chairman's decision shall be final and binding in all the cases.
holds the privilege of breaking a tie in the Councils'
in his absence.
for smooth functioning of SAC
a council member
General Secretary, Student Senate
In his/her absence,
the Vice-President; Board of Hostel
the Constitution of Student Councils
The General Secretary, Student Senate shall preside over the meetings of
Affairs shall preside over the meeting.
He/She shall ensure that
He/she shall be the representation
the Council Meetings.
The General Secretary, Student Senate shall be elected by an open election
by the General Student Body and shall have a tenure of one academic year.
The General. Secretary, Student SenatewiJI be the member of the Institute's
relevant. He/she shall attend the
policy formulating Committees wherever
meetings of the Institute Committees, or shall nominate one of'the members
of Student Senate to attend the meetings ori'his/her behalf.
and voice of the General Student Body in
is not violated
General Secretary, SAC/ACAC
The General Secretary, SAC/ACAC shall be the overall
the Boards at the Council.
He/she is responsible
within: the Councils.
for the effective coordination
of the constituent
He/she is responsible for the proper functioning of an the Boards identified
under the Council and shall also review the proper utilization of funds on
He/she will circulate the annual financial report ofSAC/ACAC,
the Office of Accounts, to the General Student Body.
The General Secretary, SAC/ACAC has a tenure of one year.
Vice President, Board
The Vice President of the Boards identified under the Councils shall be
responsible for the proper functioning of the societies under the respective
He/she shall be responsible for the proper budget bifurcation to the
constituent bodies under the Board, and proper utilization of the same.
He/she shall convene the Board meetings, and record the minutes for the
reference of the Student Senate. In his/her absence, the President of the
Board shan nominate one the Student Coordinators of the constituent
Societies to convene the meeting.
He/she will maintain the Statement of Expenditure of each Society.
The Vice President of the Board shall possess a record of all physical assets
of the Board.
The Vice President, Board has tenure of one academic year.
President, Boa rd
The President ofa Board is a faculty member of the institute, nominated by
the Director of lIT Jodhpur.
The President shall act as the mentor to the entire Board in its functions and
shall overview the coordination among the societies of the Boards.
The President is responsible and deciding authority for the proper utilization
of the budget allotted to the Board.
The President shall submit a Statement of Expendlture of the Board every
three months during the academic year, duly-reconciled with the records in
the Office of Students and Office of Accounts.
Student Co-ordinators, Societies
The Student Co-ordinators of each society identified under the Boards are
responsible for the effective implementation of activities organized by the
for the proper utilization of budget within the society,
for the same at both Board level and SAC/ACAC level.
He/she is responsible
and is accountable
He/she shall provide the semester/annual
for the SAC/ACAC audit.
He/she shall come up with an activity calendar
propose the budget
He/she shall maintain the Statement of Assets of the Society and submit a
Statement of Assets every three months during the academic year,
Vice President, Board.
The tenure of Student Co ..ordinator
for the society and shall
for the society to the Board for consideration
report of the Society's
is one academic year.
Meeting Procedu res
a year, and
In his/her absence.of
shall convene the meeting.
shall convene the meeting.
shall hold the responsibility
shall meet at least once in a semester/twice
whenever deemed necessary.
The quorum of the meeting shall be at least 50% of the total membership.
the Dean (Students/Academics),
The notice of the meeting shall be sent to the Council members by the Dean
in consultation with the Chairman, SAC/ACAC one
week before the scheduled date.
The Deputy Registrar
sharing the agenda and recording the minutes of the meeting.
The agenda of the meeting shall be sent to the Council members
prior to the scheduled meeting.
The recorded minutes of the meeting shall be shared to the Council
The General Secretary, SAC/ACAC can invite any registered
institute with a written requisition to the Dean (Students/Academics).
invitee shall however not have any voting rlghts.
The Chairman, SAC/ACAC has the authority to call for a vote, and in castf
ofa tie, the decision of the Chairman, SACIACAC shall be fin a! and
Special meeting can be convened if30% of the council members pwtition
for the same.
and the General Student Body within three working days.
student of the
General Body Meeting
in the GBM,
The General Body Meeting (GBM) shall be conducted at least once in a
year, and whenever deemed necessary.
General Secretary, Student Senate shall convene the General Body Meeting.
If the GeneraJ Secretary, Student Senate cannot be present
he/she shall nominate
a Vice President of one of the Boards to convene the
meeting. The same shall be conveyed to the General Student Body at least
48 hours before the meeting.
The Vice President, Board of Hostel Affairs shall record the minutes of the
meeting, and shan share with the General Student Body within 24 hours of
The quorum of the meeting shall be at least 50% of the General Student
The concerns of the General Student Body raised in the GBM shall, be
discussed in Student Senate meetings within one week.
shall not be violated at any instant of the meeting.
Emergency Genera] Body Meeting
The emergency General Body Meeting (eGBM) can be called at a short
notice of at least 24 hours.
The General Secretary, Student Senate will call for an eGBM and shall
necessarily convene the same.
The Vice President, Board of Hostel Affairs shall record the minutes of the
meeting, and shalf share the same with the General Student Body within 24
hours of the meeting.
The eGBM can be called to discuss student concerns of urgent nature.
The quorum of the meeting shall be at least 60% of the General Student
The concerns of the General Student Body raised in the eGBM shall be
discussed in Student Senate meeting within"'48 hours.
shall not be violated at any instant of the meeting.
Student Senate Meeting
The Student Senate shall meet at least twice a semester and whenever
The General Secretary, Student Senate shall convene the meeting, and
record the minutes.
The notice and agenda of the meeting shall be sent to the Student Senators
one week prior to the scheduled meeting.
The minutes of the meeting shall be sent to the General Student Body and
the members of SAC and ACAC within 48 hours of meeting.
Emergency Student Senate meetings can be called by the General Secretary,
Student Senate at a short notice of at least 24 hours.
The quorum of the Student Senate meeting should be at least 314th of the
Ira Student Senator
meetings, he/she shall be removed from the position.
fails to attend three consecutive Student Senate
There shall be an institute townhall meet once in every semester.
The General Secretary, Student Senate shall send notice of the meeting to
the General Student Body after consultation with the Director.
The General Secretary, Student Senate shall be the moderator of the
Election of General Secretary, Student Senate, SAC and ACAC
minimum of 4 semesters and have minimum 1 CGPA.
b. For a Postgraduate Student, should have completed a minimum of
and have minimum 7 CGPA.
c. The contesting candidate should not be having any backlog.
ii. Must have at least one' of the following.
a. Served as a Vice President of any of the Boards
in the SAC
b. Served at the level of Student Co-ordinator
of any Society in any
of the Boards
in the SAC or ACAC or its equivalent.
Should not have any disciplinary
The General Secretary,
General Body Election.,
action taken against him/her by the institute.
Student Senate, SAC and ACAC are elected through a
conducted by the Election Committee
Election of Vice President, Boards
of Boards would be elected within the Board.
pertaining to the
shall be submitted to the President, Board within the
in the election.
The Vice Presidents
The Student Co..ordlnators of the Societies
Board can contest
The SOP and manifesto
timeline decieded by the Ee.
and be approved by theBe.
Each voter shall have only one vote.
In case of a tie, the President of the Board shall break it.
and its transparency
of the elections
college will be decieded by the respective Board constitution,
shall be overseen by the
Election of Student Co...ordlnators, Societies
Society would be elected within the Society (or
shall be submitted to the President, Board within the
college will be decleded by the respective Board constitution,
in the election.
The Student Co-ordiantor,
Any member of the Society can contest
The SOP and manifesto
timeline decieded by the Be.
and be approved by the Ee.
Each voter shall have only one vote.
In case ora tie, the President of the Board shall break it.
Election Comm ittee,
and its transparency
of the elections
shall be overseen by the
Election Committee (EC)
in consultation with
form the Election
the election of General
The Chainnan-SAC/ACAC shall appoint an Election Commissioner who will
be a faculty member of the Institute.
The Election Commissioner who is the returning officer,
the student senate, will nominate 6 student nominees.
The returning officer and the student nominees will
The Election Commissioner will act as the Chairman, Election Committee.
The role of the Election Committee is to conduct
Secretary, Student Senate, and General Secretary SAC & ACAC.
The Election Committee shall also oversee the election procedures for the
Vice President, Board.
The Ee shall decide the date of the election, which shall be before the second
minor examination of the Spring Semester.
The EC shall frame the rules for conducting the election with the approval of
Dean (Students) and Dean (Academics). The EC shall release the Standard
Operating Procedure (SOP) of the elections seven days prior to the start of
to the post of General Secretary, Student Senate, SAC and
The election shall take place through a secret ballot. However, in exceptional
circumstances, where voters cannot physically cast a vote, online polling
shall be conducted
The Returning Officer may declare provisional results immediately after the
counting of the votes and shall submit the results of the elections to the Deans
for ratification. The Election Committee will decide on all matters related to
The decision of the Returning Officer shall be final and binding. However,
circumstances, an appeal may be made to the Chairman-
the number of votes in favour of the candidate
For unopposed candidates,
should be greater than the number of votes against
the candidate (neutral
votes are excluded); for the candidate to get elected. In case, the candidate
does not get. elected, nominations will be called for the post and in this case,
the rejected candidate will not be eligible to apply for the same post.
from Dean, Students
Oversigbt Committee (OC) ofEleetion
The Chairman, SAC/ACAC shall constitute an Oversight Committee of
Election and will act as the Chairman of the same.
The member of
Academics, Associate Deans, Students and Associate Deans, Academics.
The oversight committee will address all issues and grievances related to the
election procedure ..
the committee will be Dean, Student Affairs, Dean,
Impeachment of Genera) Secretary, Student Senate
The impeachment procedure of General Secretary, Student Senate can be
initiated by any registered student of HT Jodhpur strictly on the basis of
Failure in delivering assigned roles and responsibilities to the
satisfaction of General Student Body, or
b. Misconduct during the term of holding office, or
c. Failure in abiding rules of the constitution.
The claim with proper documented evidence shall be submitted to Dean,
Students and Dean, Academics who shall have a first check and further
forward it to the Council (SACI ACAC).
The Chairman can nominate a committee, which shall investigate on the
complaint, and report back to the Council.
The General Secretary ~Student Senate shan be impeached if2/3rd of the
total strength of the Council present in the meeting finds the complaint of
the aggrieved student to be genuine.
In case of a tie, ~hedecision of the Chairman shall be final as per XI..A..vi.
Impeachment of General Secretary, Board
The impeachment procedure of General Secretary, Board can be initiated by
any registered student of liT Jodhpur strictly on the basis of
Failure in delivering assigned roles and responsibilities to the
satisfaction of General Student Body, or
b. Misconduct during the term of holding office, or
c. Failure in abiding rules of the constitution.
The claim with proper documented evidence shall be submitted to President,
Board who shall investigate on the complaint and report to the Council.
The General Secretary, Board shall be impeached if the Council finds the
complaint of the aggrieved student to be genuine.
The decision of the Chairman shall be final as per XI-A-vi.
Impeachment of Student Coordinator, Society
The impeachment procedure of Student Coordinator, Society can be
initiated by any registered student of lIT Jodhpur
strictly on the basis of
Failure in delivering assigned roles and responsibilities
of General Student Body, or
during the term of holding office, or
c. Failure in abiding rules of the constitution.
investigate on the complaint
The claim with proper documented evidence shall be submitted to President,
The President, Board shall
inputs from the General Secretary, Board and General Secretary, Student
The Student Coordinator, Society shall be impeached
finds the complaint of the aggrieved student
For Board of Hostel Affairs,
The decision of the President, Board shall be final.
the Student Coordiantor
shall be read as Hostel
if the President, Board
and shall also take
to be genuine.
The position of the impeached shall be filled by a re-election
the election norms of the Constitution (XIV) and/orthe Board Constitution, within,
I§ days of the impeachment.
or a nomination
XVI ..A Amendment
tenus of reference and
of lnstltute policy. Such amendments
Any part of the constitution except
-XVI are subject
The clauses mentioned in XVI-A-i can be amended only on the basis of any
can be initiated only by
presented it to the SAC/ACAC.
SAC/ACAC can appoint a review committee
The review committee
A 213m majority of the Council present
The quorum of the meeting should be atleast 30%.
shall be drafted by the Student Senate and
in the meeting should be in favour of
in the Senate for flnal approval.
to SAC/ACAC for
of the document
for the same.
In case of a tie, and in case of any other conflict of interest among the
final and binding as per XI-A-vi.
the decision of the Chairman, SAC/ACAC shall be the
XVI ..B Interpretation
In the event of a difference or dispute with regard to interpretation
meaning of any existing provision
the Chairman, SAC/ACAC;
of this Constitution,
the decision of the Chairman, SAC/ACAC shall be
the same may be referred to
of the intended
" final on all matters and shall be binding on the SAC/ACAC as a whole.
Office of Academics
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Academic Calendar: Semester
..I, Academic Year 2021-22
1 Fee link activation for Semester 1
:c Last day of Fee payment
All PG and UG UG 2nd Year UG 1st Year
3rd It 4th Year
4 Orientation for New Students
24 ..26 Aug
Registration for Old UG & PG Students
5 (including MBA, M.Tech. AI Executive
approved by the Faculty advisors
6 Last date of registration to be
.~. eommencemenf~efala~$tor~lJG~~~~'I~>~r~-, '
.(tnclUdJng M8~J _M~t~n,. AI
~. ::·.ExeeUt,ye aniLM.MT>
2~ Aucj· ~.
9 Late Registration and Last date of Add'
'I Drop of Courses
10 Instructors and adding courses in lieu
of dropped courses
11 Foundation Day Celebration
14 Student Feedback Fractal 1 courses
15 Fractal 1/2 Withdrawal.! Add"
. 26 Aug
17 Fractal 2 BegIns
18 Last date of course withdrawal
19 Last date of showing First Minor
.Semester Examination marks
21 Comprehensive week
23 Student Feedback Fractal 2 courses
20 ..22 Nov
days will be held with the schedule of
Lectures on the following
mentioned against them:
All Students ex~ludingUG 1st It 2nd Year
(A) Monday, 26 July 2021: Thursday's Time Table wlll be followed
(8) Wednesday I 27 October 2021: Friday's Time Table will be followed
B.Tech 2nd Year
Saturday, 14 Aug 2021: Monday's Time Table will be fonowed
Saturday, 28 Aug 2021: Tuesday's Time Table will be followed
Saturday, 4 Sep 2021: Thursday's Time Table will be followed
(0) Saturday I 11 Sep 20.21: Monday's Time Table wilLbe followed
Saturday, 18 Sep 2021: Tuesday's Time Table wUi be followed
Saturday, 25 Sep 2021: Thursday's TIme Table will be followed
(G) Wednesday, 27 October 2021: Friday's Time Table will be followed
B.Tech 1st Year
Saturday, 4 Sep 2021.: Thursday's Time Table will be followed
(D) Saturday, 11 Sep 2021: Monday's Time Table will be followed
Saturday, 18 Sep 2021: Tuesday's Time Table will be followed
(D) Saturday, 23 Oct 2021: Tuesday's Time Table will be followed
(E) Wednesday, 27 october 2021: Friday's Time Table will be followed
(E) Saturday, 30 Oct 2021: Wednesday's Time Table will be followed
Saturday, 13 Nov 2021: Monday's Time Table will be followed
(G) Saturday, 27 Nov 2021: Tuesday's Time Table will be followed
(H) Saturday, 4 Dec 2,021: Wednes~ay's Time Table will be followed
Session for All programmes including MBA, MMT, and M.Tech. AI (Executive) wtll
from 23 July 2021
If the Government of India announces any additional Holiday on a working' day,
then one of the Saturday(s)/Sunday(s)
will be observed as a working day
If the requisite number of lectures cannot be scheduled,
consultation with the students in their respective courses, decide on a schedule of extra
classes. A regular course has an engagement of 14 lectures (one lecture of SOminutes)
p~r one credit.
the instructors may,
There will be no extra classes on Gazetted Holidays.
Saturdays and Sundays falling within the examination period wUI be used for
circumstances, examinations of some of
scheduling examinations. Under extraordinary
the courses may be scheduled on the days preceding the mid-semester/end
Summary of the total number of teaching days is 'given in the table below:
UG 2nd Year
UG 1st Year
All PG·· UG 3rd • 4th
Total nos. of
List of hoHdays
Institute H()lidays Calendar for the Year 2021
26 January 2021
11 March 2021
29 March 2021
02 April 2021
25 April 2021
14 M,ay 2021
26 Mav 2021
21 July 2021
15 AUQ' 2021
19 AUQ 2021
30 Aug 2021
02 Oct 2021
14 Oct 2021
15 od: 2021
f- MahavIr Javantl
Idu'l Fitr *
IO ..ul-Zuha (Bakrid) *
Mahatm~ Gandhi's Birthday
(in lieu of RH)
Dussehra (Vijay Oashmi)
19 Oct 2021
Milad ...un ...Nabi or Id-e-Mllad=
04 Nov 2021
05 Nov 2021
19 Nov 2021
25 Dec 2021
(birthday of PrQphet Mohammad)
Govardhan Puja (in lieu of RH)
Guru Nanak's Birthday
*May be changed, subject
*" List of Holidays for Year 2021 has been taken from DoPT Order
to any further order of Centraf/State Govemment,