r t i
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
12th October, 2023 (Thursday)
Senate Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Minutes of 35th Meeting
12 October 2023 (Thursday) at 3:00 pm
Senate Room, IIT Jodhpur
The following members were present:
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. S.R. Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Deputy Director, Ex-officio
Dr. Sanjeev Misra, Vice Chancellor,
Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University, Lucknow
(U.P.) and Former Director, AIIMS Jodhpur
Prof. H.P. Khincha, Chairman,
Karnataka State Innovation Council, Bangalore
Three  persons,  not  being  employees
of the Institute, to be nominated by
the  Chairman  in  consultation  with
educationists  of  repute,  one  each
Prof. Purnima Singh,
Department  of    Humanities  &  Social  Sciences
engineering and humanities; and
Prof. Neeraj Jain, Deptt. Of BB
Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Deptt. Of BB
Prof. Ajay Agarwal, Deptt. of EE
Prof. Somitra K. Sanadhya, CS&E
Prof. Sangeeta Sahney, SME
Prof. Anil Kumar Tiwari, EE
Prof. Ananya Debnath, Chemistry
Prof. Samanwita Pal, Chemistry
Prof. Atul Kumar, Chemistry
Prof. Kaushal A. Desai, ME
Prof. Rahul Chibber, ME
Prof. Suril Shah, ME
Prof. Ram Prakash, Physics
Prof. Subhashish Banerjee, Physics
Prof. Ambesh Dixit, Physics
Prof. Ashutosh Kumar Alok, Physics
Prof. Gaurav Harit, CS&E
Prof. Amit Mishra, BSBE
Prof. Sushmita Jha, BSBE
Prof. Meenu Chhabra, BSBE
Prof. Ankita Sharma, SoLA
recognized  as  such  by  the  Institute
instruction in the Institute.
the  purpose  of
Prof. Samanwita Pal, Dean (R&D)
Surajit  Ghosh,  Dean  (International
Relations,  Alumni  Relations  and  Corporate
Prof.  Somitra  K.  Sanadhya,  Dean  (Digital
Prof. Atul Kumar, Dean (Academics)
Prof. Ankita Sharma, Dean (Student Affairs)
Prof. Ram Prakash,Dean (Infrastructure)
Prof. Kaushal Desai, Dean (PRG, IITJ Connect &
Prof.  Mitali  Mukerji,  Department  of  Bioscience
Prof.  P.K.  Tewari,  Department  of  Chemical
Dr. Ramesh K. Metre, Department of Chemistry
Prof.  Gaurav  Harit,  Department  of  Computer
Science & Engineering
Prof.  Ajay  Agarwal,  Department  of  Electrical
Dr.  V.V.  M.S.  Chandramouli,  Department  of
Prof.  Suril  V.  Shah,  Department  of  Mechanical
Dr.  K.R.  Ravi,  Department  of  Metallurgical  &
Prof.  Ashutosh  Kumar  Alok,  Department  of
Prof.  Subhasish  Dey,  Department  of  Civil  &
Prof.  Sangeeta  Sahney,  School  of  Management
& Entrepreneurship (SME)
Heads of the Departments or Schools
as  may  be  established  by  the
Intelligence & Data Science (AIDE)
School  of  Artificial
Prof.  Meenu  Chhabra,  Centre  for  Emerging
Technologies for Sustainable Development
Dr. Krishna K Balaraman, Centre for Technology
Foresight & Policy
Dr.  S.C.  Bose,
Prof.  Amitava  Mitra,  Center  for  Research  &
Development of Scientific Instruments
Prof.  Prodyut  R.  Chakraborty,  Rishabh  Center
for Research and Innovation in Clean Energy
Indranil  Banerjee,  AD  (Hostel  Affairs)
Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Dr.  Angan  Sengupta,  Associate,  Professor
Department of Chemical Engineering
Dr.  Dibyendu  Kumar  Sasmal,  Department  of
Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, AD (PRG), Department
of Civil & Infrastructure Engg.
Dr.  Abhishek  Sarkar,  AD  (Student  Affairs)
Department of Mathematics
Suchetana  Chakraborty,  AD
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Dr.  Abir  Bhattacharyya,  Associate  Professor,
Department  of  Metallurgical  &  Materials
Dr.  S.C.  Bose,  Head  (IDRP),  Chairperson,
Dr.  Venkatesha  Murthy  R,  Associate  Professor,
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Dr. Dipanjan Roy, Associate Professor, School of
Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
Prof.  Ankita  Sharma,  Dean  (Student  Affairs),
School of Liberal Arts
Prof. C. Venketesan, Professor-in-charge
One  or  more  members of  academics
from  each  of  the  Departments  and
Schools, nominated by the Chairman
of  the  Senate,  for  a  period  of  one
year,  subject  to  a  maximum  of  two
persons  from  any  Department  or
Dr. Somnath Ghosh
Faculty-in-charge (Curriculum Implementation)
Dr. Manish Narwaria
Associate Dean (Academics)
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Administration)
General Secretary, ACAC
General Secretary, Student Senate
Upto  five  student  representatives
nominated  by  the  Chairman  of  the
Senate,  as  special  invitees,  for  a
participation  shall  be  for  the  non-
evaluation items of the Senate.
Vice President, Board of Academic Interaction
Dr. Somnath Ghosh, Offg. Registrar
Secretary to the  Senate
The following members and special invitees could not attend the Meeting
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Deptt. of BB, Dean (IR, AR and CR)
Prof. Mayank Vatsa, Deptt. of CS&E
Prof. Richa Singh, Deptt. of CS&E
Prof. Bharat Singh Rajpurohit, EE
Prof. Mahesh Kumar, EE
Prof. Manikandan Paranjothy, Chemistry
Prof. Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Chemistry
Prof. Anand Krishnan Plappally, ME
Prof. Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, ME
Prof. Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, EE, AD (Faculty Affairs)
Prof. Shree Prakash Tiwari, EE
Dr. Manish Gupta, Director Google Research India
Dr. Souvik Bhattacharyya, Former Vice Chancellor BITS, Pilani
Dr. Farhat Naz, School of Liberal Arts
Dr. Ankur Gupta, AD (IRO)
Dr. Satyajit Sahu, Associate Professor
Prof. Bijnan Bandyopadhyay, Head, Center for Education and Technology for Education
The following are the recommendations of the Senate:
Welcome by the Chairman, Senate
The  Chairman,  Senate  welcomed  all  the  members  to  the  35th  Meeting  of  the  Senate
and called the meeting in order. He introduced the new members to the Senate as per
the  recent  notification  IITJ/REG/2023-24/100.    Further  he  thanked  all  outgoing
members for their contributions to the Senate.
The  Chairman,  Senate  further  shared  with  the  members  that  the  term  of  Dr.  R.
Chidambaram as the Chairman, Board of Governance,  IIT Jodhpur completed and Shri
A.  S.  Kiran  Kumar,  the  former  Chairman,  ISRO  has  been  appointed  as  the  new
Chairman,  Board  of  Governance,    IIT  Jodhpur.  He  further  informed  the  Senate  that
Shri  A.  S.  Kiran  Kumar  recently  visited  the  institute  and  interacted  with  students,
faculty  members  and  staff  members  of  the  Institute.  The  new  Chairman  during  his
stay has  also visited selected research laboratories of the Institute.
During his visit, Shri A. S. Kiran Kumar suggested preparing a report on the Institute's
progress  in  the  direction  of  signal  processing,  AI  and  Machine  Learning;  he  also
suggested  scope  for  further  collaborations  for  further  progress  and  augment  the
present research  activities.  Another  area  of  importance  that  he  has  emphasized  was
environmental  science  and  engineering for  climate  change  prediction  and  to  explore
opportunities  of  collaboration  with  Industry  in  this  regard.  The  Chairman,  BoG  also
requested  the  photonics  laboratory  to  design  a  simple  quantum  entanglement
experiment  kit  for  the  demonstration  to  school/college  students.  The  Chairman
Senate apprised the members that the next BoG meeting is scheduled on 31 Oct 2023.
The  Chairman,  Senate  informed  and  congratulated  the  Senate  members  on  the
dedication  of  the  permanent  campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur  to  the  Nation  by  Hon'ble  Prime
Minister on 5 October 2023.
The  Chairman  also  briefed  the  Senate  that  based  on  state  legislative  assembly
election dates and the availability of the Chief Guest, it is decided to organize the 9th
Convocation  ceremony  on  Tuesday  (evening),  21  November  2023.  The  Chairman
formally  invited  all  the  Senate  Members  to  attend  the  9th  Convocation  in  person  at
the  Institute.  He  further  suggested  planning  the  Alumni  Induction  Programme  and
The  Chairman  shared  with  the  Senate  that  major  IT  companies  are  predicting
recession in jobs related to IT support services which may lead to retrenchment. It is
evident  that  students  are opting  jobs  in  the  IT support  services  in place  of  the  core
engineering  disciplines  due  to  high  demand.  The  Chairman  also  apprised  that  the
nature of coding/programming related jobs will see a major change with the advent
of  AI  tools  like  ChatGPT.  It  will  also  impact  M.Tech.  admissions  across  IITs  as  many
engineering  colleges  have  closed  down  core  engineering  branches  such  as  Civil  or
Chemical engineering. Further, he expressed that the Institute should be prepared for
such  a  placement  scenario  and  re-design  the  academic  programs  with  emphasis  on
core  engineering  concepts  to  make  them  attractive  and  more  job  oriented.  He
suggested departmental societies to orient the students as per the trend.
The Chairman also advised the HoDs and Senate members to carefully deal with these
placement  and  PG  Admissions  issues  at  the  departmental  level.  He  suggested
encouraging  /  attracting  scientists  working  in  National  laboratories  /Industries  for
joining  Ph.D.  programmes  at  the  Institute.  MoUs  with  such  laboratories  can  also  be
initiated  for  a  joint  Ph.D.  supervision  with  IITJ  faculty  members.  If  required,  a
flexible  (Online  and  Offline)  academic  regulation  for  such  scientists  joining  the
Institute  for  Ph.D.  programme  may  be  designed.    Such  scientists  having  laboratory
facilities  at  their  parent  organization,  the  minimum  residency  period  of  six  months
can be spread across the duration of the Ph.D. programme for such candidates.
The Chairman, Senate further advised to submit a report on the Minor in Management
and  Entrepreneurship  in  line  with  the  implementation  of  Students’  Innovation  and
Finally, the Chairman apprised Senate members that the Institute is preparing a HEFA
loan proposal of  Rs. 720 crore for major infrastructure development and procurement
of  laboratory  equipment  based  on  the  institute’s  present  repaying  capacity    for
submission to the Ministry of Education.
Confirmation  of  Minutes  of  the  34th  Meeting  of  the  Senate  held  on  24th  June,
The Senate confirmed the Minutes of the 34th Meeting of the Senate, as circulated on
14 March 2023.
Report on Action Taken on decisions of the 34th Meeting of the Senate held on
24th June, 2023
The Senate noted the Action Taken Report (ATR) on decisions of the 34th Meeting of
the Senate held on 20 December 2022 and recommended the following:
Proposal  of  a  new  certificate
cum  postgraduate  diploma  in
Technologies  and  Applications,
from  Department of  Bioscience
Proposal  for  New  M.  Tech.
Course  curriculum  for  Master
program in XR Design
conferment  of  Honoris  Causa
Implemented;  Development  of  detailed
course  content  is  under  process  and  will
be presents in next Senate meeting
curriculum  will  be  placed  in  the  ensuing
The  proposal  was  placed  before  BoG  in
its  33rd  meeting  held  on  28  June  2023
and  after  approval  the  proposal  for
conferment  of  Honoris  Causa  Doctorate
Degree  to  Eminent  Personalities  with
suggested  names  was  forwarded  to MoE,
GoI  for  obtaining  approval of  the  Visitor
(Hon’ble President of India). In response,
the  MoE  vide  letter  dated  05  October
2023  had  conveyed  the  approval  of  the
Proposal for M. Tech., Post Graduate Diploma and Certifications in Data
Engineering, from the School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science.
The  School  of  Artificial  Intelligence  and  Data  Science  proposed  M.  Tech.  in  Data
Engineering offered from Semester I, AY 2023-24. The proposal was discussed in an all
faculty  workshop  held  on  14th  July  2023.  It  was  also  discussed  in  the  Academic
Committee and ECS in its meetings held on 28th  July 2023 and 17th, 25th August 2023
respectively. The Academic Committee reviewed the proposal and recommended the
Dr. Dip Sankar Banerjee, School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, presented
the  proposal  for  M.  Tech.,  Post  Graduate  Diploma  and  Certifications  in  Data
Engineering  before  the  Senate  placed  as  Annexure-I.  The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  and  approved  the  proposal  for  M.  Tech.,  Post  Graduate
Diploma  and  Certifications  in  Data Engineering with  a  maximum  of  10%  relaxation  in
the eligibility criteria for students opting only for PGD and not willing to transition to
the M.Tech. programme.
The  Senate  further  suggested  aligning  the  program  to  the  Institute’s  Academic
calendar.  The  Chairman,  Senate  advised  to  create  a  provision  for  the  approved
courses for such programmes to also be available for regular students of the Institute.
The  Dean  (DT)  was  requested  to  create  provisions  in  the  ERP  to  distinguish  the
programme duration and courses for both the types of students.
Action: Head (AIDE)
Dean (Digital Transformation)
Annexure AP    35-4  Recommendation
Goals,  Offered  as
elective of 700 lfor
MSc,  M.  Tech,
PhD,  Structure  L-
T-P [C] 3-0-0 (3)
The  4  courses  of  the  Center
for  Emerging  Technologies  for
Sustainable development were
The  Senate  advised  the  major
in  the  course  as
(a)  Linking of CSR and SDG is
(b)  A  connection  between
business  and  CSR  to  be
(c)  There  are  a
redundancy  in  the  course
offered as elective
of  700  level  for  B.
Tech  (Final),  MSc,
M.  Tech,  PhD,
Structure L-T-P [C]
Senate  advised  the  major
changed  on  the  Appropriate
(a) Modules  2  and  3  can  have
more number of lectures to
technology can be added in
In  the  course  Water  Basics,
the Senate advised that
(a) Course  must  have
should  not  be  a  social
content  must  be
departments  of  Chemistry,
and Chemical Engineering;
(c)  Title  of  the  course  to  be
(d) Water filtration technology
to be included.
Public  Health  and  Climate
Change-  (a)  Too  many  topics
in the course content; and
(b)  Sustainability  aspects  to
modified  courses  be  placed  in
the  ensuing  Senate  meeting
offered as elective
of  700  level  for
B.Tech, M.Sc., MS,
Structure L-T-P [C]
4. Public  Health  and
offered as elective
B.Tech, M.Sc., MS,
Structure L-T-P [C]
Head,  CTFP  presented  the
new  courses  proposed  by  the
center before the Senate.
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  the
reviewing  the  course  Smart
Contracts  for  Logistics  with
the  Department  of  Computer
Science  &  Engineering  and
Centre  for  Mathematical  and
and  present  the  course  in  the
ensuing Senate Meeting.
The  Senate  further  suggested
adding    a  module  on  Digital
public  infrastructure  in  the
Governance.  The  credits  can
be  redistributed  accordingly
for  the  consideration  of  the
Senate in its next meeting.
presented  the  new  course  on
Design Lab before the Senate.
After a detailed discussion the
Senate approved the proposal.
Head  Department  of  CSE,
presented all the new courses
before the senate.
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  and
as elective of 700
level Structure L-
T-P [C] 2-0-0 [2]
2.  Smart  Contracts
elective  of  700
level Structure L-
T-P [C] 2-0-0 [2]
3.  Socio  Technical
elective  of  700
level Structure L-
T-P [C] 2-0-0 [2]
offered  as  700
[C] 0-0-2 [2] with
of structure L-T-P
[C] 3–1–0 [4]
Offered for B.Tech.,
M.Tech., Ph.D. (CSE,
AI), M.Sc. (Maths) as
Elective / Core
and Analysis of
for Computing (or
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  and
and Engineering of
Structure (L-T-P [C])
Offered for B.Tech.,
M.Tech., Ph.D. (CSE,
AI), M.Sc. (Maths) as
Design and Analysis
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  and
of  Structure (L-T-
P [C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech.,
M.Tech., Ph.D. (CSE,
AI), M.Sc. (Maths) as
of Structure (L-T-P
[C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech.,
M.Tech., Ph.D. (CSE,
AI), M.Sc. (Maths) as
and Analysis of
Of Structure (L-T-P
[C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech.,
M.Tech., Ph.D. (CSE,
AI), M.Sc. (Maths) as
and Analysis of
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  and
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  and
The Senate recommended and
without  any  prerequisites  to
that  the  course  Computer
reviewed  and  placed  before
the Senate for consideration.
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  and
of Structure (L-T-P
Offered for B. Tech,
M.Tech, Ph.D. as
of Structure (L-T-P
[C]) 3–0–0 [3]
Offered for B.Tech.,
M.Tech., Ph.D. (CSE,
AI), M.Sc. (Maths) as
and Analysis of
of Structure (L-T-P
[C]) 1–0–0 [1]
Offered for B.Tech.,
M.Tech., Ph.D. (CSE,
AI), M.Sc. (Maths) as
Head  Department  of  CSE,
presented  the  New  B.Tech.
Specialization  in  Theoretical
Computer  Science  before  the
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion  recommended  and
approved the Specialization in
1.  Fundamentals  of
(with fractals) Of
Prof.  Gaurav  Harit,  Head
Department of CSE, presented
contents  as  recommended  in
the  Academic  Audit  before
The  Senate  after  detailed
the  updates  in  the  course
content  except  the  course
content  of  Fundamentals  of
fractals).  The  content  must
reflect  state-of-the-art  and
should  be  useful  for  students.
The revised course content for
Learning  to  be  placed  before
the next senate meeting.
Masters  and  PhD
Programs  as  700
[C])  (3-0-0  [3])
400 level core
of  Structure  (L-T-P
offered  for  B.Tech
(CSE)  as  200  level
of  Structure  (L-T-P
[C]) 3–0–0 [3] offered
M.Tech., Ph.D. (CSE,
(CSE)  as  700  level
Tech. CSE  as  300
with the addition
course  has  been
the  credits  have
from 3 to 4). This
course  will  also
courses  for  the
Program  by  1
Academic Audit of UG and PG Programs Annually/once in 2 years
Dean  (Academics)  presented  the  reports  on  Academic  Audit  of  the  following
Department/School/Center before the Senate:
Action: Concerned Heads
Office of Academics
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion recommended the
changes  suggested  by  the
School of Liberal Arts.
The  School  proposed  that  the
current  pattern  of  bouquet  courses
in a discipline-specific style may be
changed  to  accommodate  more
in  view  of  the
change in the profile of the School.
The  School  proposed  to  add  more
400  level  open  elective  courses  in
LA  bouquet  courses.  This  will  add
diversity  in  terms  of course options
for  the  students  to  take  from  each
The  School  proposed  that  in  the
M.Sc.  CSS  the  prerequisite
Specialization  Elective  Economic
Approach course can be waived off.
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion recommended the
changes  suggested  by  the
Department  of  Electrical
Specialization  electives  and  PG
courses to be offered as UG PE / PG
Proposed  list  of  PE  for  UG  Students
from Communication Stream:
S. No.  Course name  L-T-P-C
and  Analysis  of
Proposed List of PE for UG Students
from Power Stream:
Plugin  Electric  Vehicles  3-0-
Special  Drives  for  Electric
Power System Reliability and
Renewable  Energy  Systems
Power Quality 3-0-0
Distributed Generation 3-0-0
Smart Grid 3-0-0
Proposed List of PE for UG Students
from VLSI Stream:
1. ML in VLSI CAD (3-0-0)
2. Formal Verification (2-0-0)
3. Hardware Software Co-design (3-
4.  Mixed  Signal  Circuit  Design  (2-0-
5. Signal and Power Integrity (3-0-0)
6.  VLSI  Broadband  Communication
Power Systems Restructuring
Introduction to Smart Grid 3-
7. VLSI Testing (2-0-0)
8. Digital VLSI Design (3-0-0)
Proposed  List  of  PE  for  M.Tech.
1.In-Memory Computing (2-0-0)
3. Signal and Power Integrity (3-0-0)
4.  Mixed  Signal  Circuit  Design  (2-0-
5.  VLSI  Broadband  Communication
Proposed  List  of  PE  for  M.Tech.
No  changes  were  proposed  for  M.
Tech. (DCS) program
Modification  in  M.Sc.  (MA)  program
by changing  the  credits  of  the  core
Algorithms"  from  3  credits  to  2
credits  and  increasing  1  credit  in
the PE course in Semester 2.
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion recommended the
changes  suggested  by  the
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion recommended the
changes  suggested  by  the
Department  of    Computer
with  the  modification  in  the
Fundamentals  of  Machine
Learning as stated in 35.2.2.
No  changes  in  M.  Tech.  CSE
and AI curriculum
Fundamentals  of  Machine  Learning
Theory of Computation CSL4XX
Maths for Computing CSL2040
Complexity Theory CSL7140
(The existing name of this course is
However, with the addition of a lab
component, the name of the course
has  been  revised  to  Computer
Organization  and  Architecture  and
the  credits  have  been  increased
from 3 to 4).
C. Updates to the B. Tech. (CSE)
total  number  of  Program
Compulsory  credits  have  increased
by  1  with  the  increase  in  the
number  of  credits  of  the  course
D. Updates to the B.Tech. (AI)
total  number  of  Program
Compulsory  credits  have  increased
by  1  with  the  increase  in  the
number  of  credits  of  the  course
Principles  of  Computer  Systems  –  1
(PCS – 1)
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion recommended the
changes  suggested  by  the
School  of  Management  &
recommended  as  per  the
entrepreneurship  policy  a
detailed  report  should  be
presented  in  the  upcoming
SME  proposed  minor  changes  in
in  24  courses  and
adding prerequisite in 10 courses)
Leading High Performance
Incentives and Performance
People Analytics and
Strategic Human Capital
History and Business
Technology and Future of
Organizational Change and
10  Strategic Leadership
12  Persuasive Communication
13  Managerial Judgment and
14  Designing and Leading
15  Digital Behavioral Dynamics
16  Culture of Tech
17  Communicating Digitally
18  Selected Topics in HR
19  Selected Topics in OB
20  Selected Topics in Marketing
21  Emerging Trends in
22  Service Operations
23  Project Management
24  Advanced Operations
Sales and Distribution
Strategic Brand Management
Digital Marketing Analytics &
Social Media Analytics
proposed  from  the  Department  of
1. Institute-wide B. Tech Courses
offered by Dept. of ME
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion recommended the
changes  suggested  by  the
Department  of  Mechanical
“Engineering  Mechanics  MEL1010”
by  removing  the  topic  on  Inertia
Tensor  as  not  all  students  have
done linear algebra.
2. B. Tech. Mechanical Programme
Core offered by Dept.
Minor change in the course “Control
of Mechanical Systems MEL3080” by
including  State-space  modelling  in
Part  II  since  it  is  used  in  lab
Flow stability part should be
3. M.Tech TFE Programme Core
“Incompressible Fluid Flow MEL7040
integral/control volume analysis
One  credit  tutorial  may  be
added  without  any  change  in  the
total credit structure by decreasing
one credit in program electives
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion recommended the
changes  suggested  by  the
Department  of  Bioscience
The Following Changes are proposed
from the Department of BB:
Changes in UG curriculum
Computational  methods  for
changed  to  Computational  methods
for multi-omics  (level 7) [2-0-2]
Introduction of New course -
Agricultural Biotechnology [3-0-0]
Changes in PG curriculum
A  minor  change  was  suggested  for
the  compulsory  M.Tech.  course  on
Introduction  to  OMICS  Technology
for  changing  L-T-P  structure  from
[2-0-0]  to  [3-0-0]  without  changing
the  course  content-  the  overall
credit  structure  remains  intact  in
line with the regulations.
The  Senate  after  detailed
discussion recommended the
changes  suggested  by  the
Department of Chemistry.
Restructuring  of  CYP6060-
Laboratory  from  0-0-3  [1.5  credits]
[3  Credits]  without
changing  total  credit  requirements
for  graduation  by  dropping  the
Credits].  The proposed  changes  are
consistent  with  the  M.Sc.  programs
in Physics and Mathematics.
Laboratory  from  Sem  III  to    Sem-II
and  CYP6050 Hands on-II from Sem
II to Sem-III
Further, the Dean (Academics) also apprised the concerns of academic audit meetings
on  first  year  students  receiving  a  large  number  of  C  (-)  grades  and  related  stress
factor among students.
The  Chairman,  Senate    instructed  all  HoDs  to  appoint  one  Faculty  Advisor  with  the
multiple  small  groups  of  students  considering  the  number  of  students  getting  C  (-)
grade and below grades in the First years courses. The Chairman also advised HoDs to
identify such students for monitoring and regular counseling. He particularly stressed
upon careful monitoring of stress factors and facilitating the well-being of students.
Also,  the  Senate  recommended  creating  course  materials  in  Hindi  for  all  1st    year
Courses after due verification by the Hindi Cell. The course material thus created is to
be  shared  with  the  students.  Moreover,  a  detailed  report  on  Entrepreneurship
projects,  number  of  students  in  minors  in  Management  and  Entrepreneurship,
implementation of Innovation and Entrepreneurship policy must also be submitted to
the  Senate  in  its  next  meeting.  The  Senate  also  deliberated  on  the  communication
and writing skills of PG students in addition to UG students and advised departments
medal  to  honor  the  UG  female  student  having  the  best  academic  performance  from
the Department of Computer Science & Engineering in the graduating batch. It is also
proposed  to  put  a corpus of  Rs.  2,50,000 (Rs.  Two  lakh  and  fifty  thousand)  to  begin
with, and intent to keep replenishing it regularly so that the award may continue for
many more years. Detailed Proposal and Guidelines are placed at Annexure-IV.
The Senate after a detailed discussion recommended for implementation.
Action: Dean (Academics)
Degree  format  for  Honoris  Causa  Doctorate  to  Eminent  Personalities  on  their
Dean  (Academics)  presented  the  Degree  format  for  Honoris  Causa  Doctorate  to
Eminent Personalities on their exceptional contributions before the Senate placed as
Annexure-V. The Senate after a detailed discussion approved the same.
The  Senate  suggested  announcement  of  conferment  of  the  degree  during  the
Convocation  and  in  case  of  the  absence  of  the  recipient,  Degree  will  be  physically
conferred on a later date when the recipient visit the Institute.
Action: Dean (Academics)
Recommendations  to  confer  the  Award  of  B.Tech.,  M.Sc.,  M.Tech.,  MBA,  MBA-
Technology,  Masters  in  Medical  Technologies,  M.Sc.-M.Tech.,  and  Ph.D.  Degrees,
PG  Diploma/Certificate  to  students  to  students,  who  meet  the  various  academic
Proposal for conferment of award of B.Tech., M.Sc., M.Tech., MBA, MBA-Technology,
in  Medical  Technologies,  M.Sc.-M.Tech.,  and  Ph.D.  Degrees,  PG
Diploma/Certificate to students to students was presented by the Dean (Academic).
The  following  students  met  all  academic  requirements  for  the  award  of  the  said
a)  314  students  registered  in  the  B.Tech.(CSE),  B.Tech.(ME),  B.Tech.(EE),  and
b)  92  students  registered  in  the  M.Sc.(CY),  M.Sc.(DH),  M.Sc.(MA)  and  M.Sc.(PH)
c)  04  students registered in the M.Sc.-M.Tech. Program
d)  282  students
in  the  M.Tech.(BB),  M.Tech.(CH),  M.Tech.(AI),
M.Tech.(CS),  M.Tech.(CI-ENV),  M.Tech.(CI-EN),  M.Tech.(CPS),  M.Tech.(SIoT),
M.Tech.(DCS), M.Tech. (AMD), M.Tech.(TFE) and M.Tech.(MT) Programs;
e)  77 students registered in the MBA and MBA-Technology Programs.
f)  06 students registered in the Masters in Medical Technologies Programs;
g)  14 students registered in the Ph.D. Program.
h)  20 students registered in the PG Diploma/Certificate.
Further  the  following  B.Tech.  students  have  met  the  requirements  of  the  award  of
1.  17  students  (included  in  the  list  of  B.Tech)  registered  for  Minor/Specialization  in
Entrepreneurship,  Management,  Visual  Computing,  Artificial  Intelligence  and
The complete list of the said 809 students is placed as Annexure VI.
The Senate authorized the Chairman Senate for approval of degrees to B.Tech., M.Sc.,
M.Tech., MBA, MBA-Technology, Masters in Medical Technologies, M.Sc.-M.Tech., and
Ph.D.  students,  and  Diploma/Certificate  to  students  in  respective  disciplines  after
detailed  verification  of  names  and  various  academic  requirements  by  respective
For graduating students in Master’s in Medical Technologies registered under the joint
Degree  programme of  IIT  Jodhpur  and  AIIMS  Jodhpur,  the  Senate  recommended  that
the Institute can invite these students on the 9th Convocation. In the proceedings of
the Convocation, the HoD will read their names and announce that the Degree will be
awarded during the convocation at AIIMS Jodhpur; students will rise from their seats.
The  Senate  Authorized  the  Convocation  Committee  to  decide  the  modalities  of  the
upcoming 9th Convocation Ceremony. The Senate further recommended that names of
graduates  of  Diploma/Certificate  will  be  announced  in  Convocation  and  these
students  will  get  Diploma(s)  /  Certificate(s)
departments/units  separately.  The  diploma  students  may  be  allowed  to  sit  in  the
convocation Hall to participate in the Oath taking ceremony.
Action: Dean (Academics)
Academic Calendar for AY 2023-24 Sem II
Dean (Academics) presented the Academic Calendar for AY 2023-24 Sem II. The Senate
after  detailed  discussion  approved  the  Academic  Calendar  (placed  at  Annexure-VII)
for AY 2023-24 Semester II.
Action: Dean (Academics)
Reporting, Adopting and Noting Items
Academic recommendations of 29th ECS Meeting held on 17 and 25 August, 2023
The Senate accepted the academic recommendation of the 29th ECS meeting held on 17
and 25 August, 2023.
Action: All Heads/Concerned
35.5.1  Approvals accorded by the Chairman, Senate
The  Senate  ratified  the  approvals  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  Senate  on  behalf  of  the
Senate, as presented in the Agenda.
Any other Item with the prior permission of the Chairman
Suggestions  on  report  proposing  transformative  reforms  to  strengthen  the  periodic
assessment  and  accreditation  of  all  Higher  Educational  Institutions  (HEIs)  of  India
submitted by the overarching committee constitute by the MoE
The Chairman Senate presented the report proposing transformative reforms for
strengthening the periodic assessment and accreditation of all HEIs of India submitted by
the overarching committee constituted by the MoE before the Senate. The Senate after
detailed discussion recommended that all the Members of the Senate submit the inputs to
the Registrar and based on the inputs received, the comments will be shared with the