Indian Institute of Technology  Jodhpur
22 May 2O2O  (Friday),  3:00  PN{ otrwards
1 June 2O2O  (Monday) ,2,30 PM onwards
Board Room, IIT JodhPur
This page  is left blank,  intentionally.
|  ;;l jlli:lllil  ril.:f-1|ir')i:?t  tr
Indian  Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Minutes of 20th Meeting
22 May 2020 (Friday)  3:00 prn onwards
& I June 2020 (Monday)  2:30 prn onwards
Board Roorn, IIT Jodhpur
sicall and thro
The followin members  were
Santanu Chaudhury,  Director,  IIT Jodhpur
H. P. Khincha, chairman,  Karnataka State  Innovation council,  Bangalore
Sanjeev Misra, Director,  AIIMS, Jodhpur
Purnima  Singh, Deptt. of Humanities  & Social Sciences,  IIT Delhi
Souvik Bhattacharyyd,  Vice Chancellor, BITS Pilani
Jitendra  Balakrishnan,  CTO-Products,  Sterlite  Technologies
S. R. Vadera,  Professor  and Head (PH)
M.P, Gupta,  Professor  and Head School of Management  & Entrepreneurship
Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R & D)
Prof.  Mayank  Vatsa,  Deptt,  of CS&E
Prof.  Richa Singh,  Professor  & DRC  Chairman  (CSE)
Pradip K. Tewari,  Head  (Chemical Engineering)
B, P, Kashyap, Head(MT)
Anil Tiwari, Head  (EE)
Ankita  Sharma,  Head (HS)
Gaurav Bhatnagar,  Head  (MA)
Gaurav Harit, Head  (CSE)
Ritu Gupta,  Head  (CY)
Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty,  Head  (ME)
Meenu Chhabra, Head  (BB)
Hari Narayan,  DRC, Chairman,  HSS
Deepak Arora, DRC, Chairman, Chemical  Engineering
Puneet Sharma,  DRC,  Chairman, Mathematics  and Chairman SHWC
Sushmita Jha, DRC,  Chairperson,  BB
Rakesh K sharma,  DRC  chairman,  Chemistry and Associate  Dean(R&D)
Ashutosh Kumar Alok,  DRC, Chairman,  Physics
Anand  Krishnan Plappally, DRC, Chairman,  ME and Head  (CETST)
Shree  Prakash Tiwari, DRC, Chairman,  EE
Appala  Naidu Gandi, DRC, Chairman,  MT
Deepak  Kumar  M. Fulwani, Head, Centre for Technology Foresight & policy
Kaushal A, Desai, Associate  Dean (lnternational  Relations  and Outreach)
Samanwita  Pal, Associate  Dean  (Students)
Somnath Ghosh,  Associate  Dean  (Academics-pG  programs)
Suril V, Shah, Associate  Dean (Academics-UG  Programs)
Shivan Nirne, General  Secretary,  Student Gymkhana
Umair Anis, Joint Secretary,  Academics  & Career  Society
Gautam  Jain, Secretary,  Elected  Representatives  Society
P.G. Basak,  OfficiatingBgEqlg  r
followinq  members  could not attend the l'lgglfng-
B, Ravindra, Associate De@
C. Venkatesan,  Professor-in-charge  (Faculty)
The following  are the outcomes of the Senate  Meeting:
Part A: open  Door Meeting
S.No.  I ltems
Welcome  by the Chairman
The Chairman  welcomed  all Members  and Invitees  to the 20th  Meeting of
the Senate. He briefed the Members  on the agenda items of the Meeting.
The Chairman briefed the members
1. about the duration  ofsummer  vacation and commencement of
interactions  from  22nd June 2020. It was also appraised that if the plan
'A'could  not be implemented,  then plan 'B'may  be adopted as decided
in 4th ECS meeting.
staring of new B. Tech. programmes  in AI and Data Science,  Chemical
Engineering, and Civil Engineering.
the classes were running  in online mode
In comparison  to last year, the faculty  strength  has been increased  to
140 and student  strength 1602. The Student  strength will further
increase  to more than 2200 in A.Y. 2020-2L.
the research project  funding  has increased from Rs.7 Crore in 2018-
19 to Rs. 25 Crore  in 2019-20. The chairman extended his thanks to
faculty  members for their effort to achieve  the same,
Confirmation  of Minutes  of the 79tn Meeting of the Senate held on 9
The Senrte confirmed the Minutes of the 19il' Meeting  of the Senate,  as
tifen  on decisions of the 19th Meeting  of the
Senate held on 9 December 2O19
The Senate noted the Action Taken R
Creation of New Academic  Entities
Proposal for Startinq of MBA Programme  Implemented
Proposal of New B.Tech programme to be
started from AY 2020 Semester I
Capability linked  Double  B.Tech. witt, a
second  Deqree  in Engineering  Science
Proposed Intake  for
Proposal for New PG Programs  and Intake to
be started  from AY 2020-21
UG programs AY 2020
19.2.12 Approvat  of Convocation  date 17 December  Implemented
Diploma offered  by
Joint Ph.D./ Joint Academic  Programmes  with
Foreio n/Other Universities
Certificates  courses  and
Change  in Thesis  Submission Policy for Old
Ph.D. student's reqistered  before July 2019
Change  in the attendance
undergoing transition Plan
Leave  rules for Ph,D, Students  joined before
July 2OL9 to be implemented  as per new
requlations  from luly 2019 onwards
19 .2. 13
Appeal  against Termination  from M'Tech.
Procram - Tusharlohora  (M15ME013)
t9.2.14 Proposal for initiating Donor's Gold  Medal
19.2.L5 Proposal for creation of Executive Committee
of the Senate
79.2.t6 Proposal for Joint Programme  for Masters in
Medical  Technologies, loint Programme for
Ph. D. in  Medica I  Tech  nolog ies and Joint
Programme  for Masters and Ph.D' in Medical  l
Tec-hnologies between Indian Institute of
Technology  and All India Institute of Medical
olicY  of IIT I tmPlemented
It was recommended  in the Special meeting of the Executive  Committee
of Senate held on 1 April 2020, to complete  the remaining  academic
curriculum in online mode by 30th April 2020, and to resume  physical
interaction  again from 22 June 2020 for three weeks  and complete
evaluation of the ongoing semester  by July end, However, based on the
prevailing  situation  Oue 1o COVID-19 it is difficult to accommodate all
students  on the campus  in the month  of lune ensuring social distancing.
In view of the same,  the following was proposed for the consideration  of
1. Implement Plan-B as recommended  by ECS in its meeting  held on 1
npiit  ZOZO to complete  all academic activities  including examination in
2. Students  will have online  revision  classes from 22 June 2020 to 30
June 2020  whereas  lab exams would  be completed during  1-14  July
3. Online proctored  examinations  will be conducted for the end semester
examination  for the ongoing semester  during 15-30 July  2020 '
Students  having no internet  connection  can
eiimination  pnysically  at iit  :oOnpur. If such students are unable  to
travel to  IIT'Jodhpur due tO travel  restrictions,  an alternate
examination  will be scheduled  at a later date'
4, For the ongoing semester,  the total  weightage .of the minor  I
examination-(no[  more  than  20olo of total weightage)  and continuous
assessment  component can be around  600/o of total weightage'  For
the remaining  40%, up to half of the weightage will be given to
assessment  through quizzeS, assignments, projects, and take-home
examination and remaining can be evaluated through the end
5, For laboratory courses, viva voce can be conducted  for end semester
assessment. Further, simulations  in various  licensed software, cAD
modules, or tools  can also  be explored for laboratory  assessment'
6. A hands-on  course which is part of any programme will be evaluated
by a term PaPer on the same toPic.
7. Second-year  students of M,Tech, and M.Sc. can complete  the thesis
evaluation  through the online viva-voce  examination by 30 luly 2020,
Students may o-pt to wait to complete  the remaining part of the
project  at the Campus  and subsequently  complete the viva-voce
examination. All students  who cannot complete  the examination  by 30
July 2020 due to genuine  reasons  will be required to apply for an
extension  with the recommendation of the supervisor.
B. Next Academic Year will start from lst September 2A20  and a
detailed  academic calendar  for Academic Year 2020-2t will be
presented in the next senate.
By the end of July 2020, all the requirements  for.final  year students  will
be completed. Most of the companies  have extended  the date of joining.
Another  round of campus  drive for the students to be carried out in the
month  of August -SePtember  2024.
Under this exceptional  situation  of COVID-19, the whole examination
system needs  to be revamped.  In this regard, the Senate opined that the
end semester  examination  will be conducted to continue  benchmarking
graduation and to be consistent  with standard  practice  to avoid  any issue
in the future.
The Senate  a
roved for  i
nward curriculum for existing B'Tech'
1. Concept note  & Detailed  Curriculum for  B.Tech. in
The Head (BB) presented the proposal and 'ppraiseC the Senate that
feedbacks have been received from industries,  academia, and other
experts of their respective fields and incorporated  in the courses.  The
Head also appraised  that the CII has identified the healthcare  sector as
one of the key areas to be taken up for investment. The senate discussed
the concept note an_q cql!cq|u[-$ Qe!q!j!!-eppl@
2. Concept  note for B.Tech. in Electrical Engineering;
The concept note and curriculum  was presented by Head  (EE) and was
discussed at length. It was  briefed that the decision  is yet to be taken on
comments received from the experts on the courses  proposed by the
department. The senate  recommended  the department to  take
appropriate action on the comments  received and make suitable changes
after discussing within the department  and present the entire proposal
again  in the next senate.
3. Concept note for B.Tech.  in Mechanical  Engineering
The proposal was presented by the Head (ME).The  Head (ME)  briefed
that comments  received  from the experts from academia and industry  and
other external  members have been incorporated  in the courses proposed
by the department. The senate  discussed  the proposal at length  and
admitted the same with the following  minor  changes:
1) Name  of course Machining Science  and Metrology  to be changed  to
Machining Science and Inspection Technology
4. Concept note for 2nd year onwards HSS courses to be offered
for B.Tech.  programmes
The concept  note and course content was presented  by the Head (HSS).
The proposal was deliberated  in detail.  The  senate admitted the proposal.
5. Institute-wide common engineering and science courses from
2nd year onwards for various B.Tech.  programmes
The courses were presented  to the Senate  by AD(UG). The senate
admitted the proposal  with the following  two minor  changes:
1) Name  of the course Optical Measurement  Techniques to be changed  to
2) Senate  empowered  chairman  senate  to take the final decision on the
title of the course Scientific computation  and other necessary  changes.
5. Concept note for Minor in Data Science for B.Tech. students
The senate in principal  approved the starting  of the specialization  and
recommended  to present  a detailed proposal  in the next senate  after the
inclusion  of additional  courses and course content of all courses.  It was
also suggested to look into course  requirements  so that students  can
build on courses  done until the second  year to pursue the specialization,
Information and Computation for B.Tech. students
7. Concept note for Interdisciplinary  specialization in Quantum
The senate in principal  approved  starting of the specialization  and
recommended  to present  a detailed proposal  in the next senate  after the
inclusion  of additional  courses  and course content of all courses.  It was
also suggested to IDRP to prepare  a detailed institutional  strategy  to
move forward in this emerging  area.
8. Concept  note for Interdisciplinary  specialization  in Robotics for
The senate in principal  approved the starting  of the specialization  and
recommended to present  a detailed proposal in the next senate after
inclusion  of course  contents  of all courses,
9. Engineering science  options  for B.Tech.  students and Core  and
elective courses  of capability linked double B.Tech. with a
second degree in engineering science  (Updated)
o  The Senate  discussed  the proposal at length  in the context  of the
recommendations  of the IIT council. After a detailed  discussion,  the
Senate  approved  the starting  of B.Tech. in Engineering  Science  as
an option to the interested students  and the 3-year  B,Sc.  in
Engineering  Science as an exit degree. The Senate  requested  to
prepare detailed  modalities  of the programme  and present the
same in the upcoming  senate for its consideration.
o  The Senate approved core and elective courses of Engineering
science programme and empowered the Chairman  Senate  to add
more courses  in the bouquet of electives.
o  The Senate  also suggested renaming  Double B.Tech.  as the student
is getting only one degree, i.€.,  B.Tech. in X +  Engineering
science.  The Senate empowered  the Chairman, Senate  to finalize
In addition  to the above senate empowered  the chairman senate  to
approve any changes in the course contents of courses  presented  in the
20.2.3 Proposal for curriculum for new B.Tech. Programme in AI and
The concept  note was presented  by Prof, Mayank Vatsa.  It was appraised
that comments were  received  from both industry and academia  and
included in the concept note. He also briefed that the concept note was
appreciated  by all reviewers, The senate discussed  the concept note in
breadth  and approved the same with courses,
20.2.4 Proposed  curriculum  for new M.Sc, M.B.A, M.Tech.,  M.Tech.-Ph.D.
Programme  to be started  from AY 2O2O-21
1. M.Tech, and M.Tech.-Ph.D.  dual degree in Chemical  Engineering
The Head,  Chemical  engineering  presented  the concept note in detail  with
the action taken on all the inputs received l,-om external experts.  The
scope for specializations was also mentioned.
The senate discussed  the concept note at length  and approved the same.
Some  changes in the courses  were suggested. The Senate also  authorized
the Chairman, Senate  to approve any changes  proposed.
2. M,Tech.  and M.Tech.-Ph.D.dual degree in Infrastructure
Engineering with following  specializations;
a. Environmental  Engineerino
The concept  notes were presented by the Associate Dean -PG
programmes  and highlighted  the uniqueness  of the programmes'  The AD-
pG also elaborated  on the action taken on the external  review reports
received  from the experts. The career trajectories  for each specialization
domain  was also outlined  with the job prospects.
The senate  discussed  the concept note in detail  and approved  the same.
The Senate also authorized  the Chairman, Senate  to approve  any changes
in the course contents  if required.
The Head, SME presented the concept  note along with the detailed  course
contents.  The Head mentioned all the possibilities of joint degrees and
dual degrees which will be available as a part of the MBA programme.  He
also dislussed  all the inputs  and suggestions  received from academia and
industries, and action  taken to update the course contents/courses' The
Head also appraised that the MBA students  can take 10 credits from other
departments  across the institute and other students can also opt credits
from the MBA.
The  Senate approved the proposal  with the following  suggestions;
1. To explore  possibilities of semester exchange  of MBA  with IIMs
2. The name of the courses should  be defined  and it should  be different
from the courses  offered  by other departments  of the institute.
4. Executive M.Tech.  (Integrated Electronics  and VLSI Systems)
The concept  note was presented  by the Associate  Dean-PG highlighting
the demand  for the programme in the industry. The detailed programme
structure was discussed  along with the modalities of synchronized delivery
of the same. The AD-PG also mentioned  that the course content  will be
presented  in the next Senate.
approved in-PrinciPallY  with a
The Senate  discussed  the proposal  and
whether che Programme  will be
suggestion  that the institute may relook
named as an executive  Programme.
Courses for ComPrehensive Examinations  for registered  M'Tech'-
Ph.D. and Ph.D. students
Bioscience  and Bioengineering,  Electrical  Engineering,  computer scjence
and Engineering, Cn.,i-1ittw,  Hrruniiies  and Social  Science' Mathematics
Mechanical  Engineering, Metallurgical and Materials Engineering'  Physics
The senate approved the courses  for comprehensive  examinations for
studenis. The senate also empowered  the
chairman senate to approve any additional  courses for comprehensive
examinatlon  from the departments  and i-DRPs'
2020 admissions is
Program  and Branch
B.Tech.  in Bioengineering
B.Tech,  in Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech.  in Electrical Engineering
B.Tech.  in Mechanical  Engineering
B.Tech.  in Materials Engineering
B.Tech.  in Chemical  Engineering
B.Tech.  in Civil and Infrastructure  Engineering
B.Tech.  in Artificial intelligence and Data Science
by chairman,  senate
other Item with the rior permission of the Chairman
Proposed Intake_for pG
l.  M.rech ir:l
*_qnd M.Tech.-ph.D.)  -
Artificia I Intel lisence
Computer  Science  and
Sensors and Internet
Data & Computational
(Mast"rs. M"rt"t"-phD  Dr"! D"or"" and phD) in MEdi"aT-
l s.ruo  l
| Master's in Medicat  I  Smart Heatth I
I Medicat  Technotogies  i
Chairman, Senate  is authorised  to approve any minor changes in the number of seats.
The Senate appreciated the tremendous efforts  of the faculty  members towards
developing the concept  notes  and courses of different UG and pG programmes.  The
senate also congratulated  the Director for this mammoth  effoft. a
The  meeting ended with thanks  to all the senate members.
Chairman, Senate IIT Jodhpur