Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
18th December 2021 (Saturday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 11th Special Meeting
18th December 2021 (Saturday), 11:00 A.M.
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present:
Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to Govt. of India
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R&D), IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
Sh.  P.C.  Makwana,  Director,  Directorate  of  Technical  Education,
Jodhpur, GoR, Nominee of Govt. of Rajasthan representative
Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admin.) & Offg. Registrar
The following members were not present
Sh. Rakesh Ranjan, Additional Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education,   Member
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, MD & CEO, Jain Irrigation, Jalgaon
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:
S-11.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
The Chairman, BoG,  welcomed all the  members of the Board of Governors,
especially  Sh.  P.C.  Makwana,  Director,  Directorate  of  Technical  Education,
Jodhpur,  Govt.  of  Rajasthan,  who  was  attending  the  meeting  for  the  first
time  on  behalf  of  the  State  Govt.  Nominee.  The  Chairman,  BoG,  expressed
that he is pleased to be in person in the BoG Meeting and 7th Convocation of
IIT Jodhpur after a long gap due to COVID restrictions. Then, the Chairman
called the meeting in order.
S-11.1.1  Presentation  by  the  two  faculty  members  on  their  research  work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
As per the decision of the BoG taken in its 24th Meeting held on 5.12.2020,
the following two Faculty Members of the Institute made presentation before
the BoG about their research work:
1.  Dr. Saurabh Nene
Dr. Saurabh  Nene,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of Metallurgical  &
Materials  Engineering, presented  his  research  work  titled  "High  Entropy
Alloys:  a  new  avenue  in  Materials  Engineering"  before  the  BoG.  The
Chairman,  BoG,  and  members  gave  very  constructive  suggestions  to
Dr.  Nene,  especially  to  link  the  current  efforts  on  HEA  design  with  Machine
learning and AI to accelerate the pace of the research work.
2.  Dr. Deepika Bhattu
Dr. Deepika Bhattu, Assistant Professor, Department of Civil & Infrastructure
Engineering,  presented  her  research  on  "What  is  in  Delhi's  Air?"  before
the  BoG.  Dr.  Bhattu  presented  and  discussed  the  project  on  "Source
apportionment,  emission  inventory  and  carrying  capacity  of  Kota  City"
recently received from Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB). The
Chairman, BoG, and members of the Board appreciated the same.
The Chairman, BoG, and members gave suggestions to Dr. Bhattu to look at
the  possibility  of  getting  involved  in  State-specific  air  pollution  and  human
health-related  problems  such  as  identifying  silicosis  in  stone  cutting  and
bangle-making  industries and ways for health  improvement of  the workers.
Prof.  Surajit  Ghosh,  Member,  BoG,  and  Dean  (R&D)  apprised  the  BoG  and
Dr.  Bhattu  about  the  new  project  of  Oil  India  in  Barmer,  Rajasthan,  and
suggested getting involved in the sustainability studies from the beginning of
the  project.  It  would  be  a  better  opportunity  for  research  initiation  and
collection of primary data for further research.
The  Chairman,  BoG,  stated  that  Prof.  Ghosh  has  made  an  excellent
suggestion and advised Dr. Deepika to explore the possibility.
Further,  the  Director  asked  Dr.  Bhattu  to  explore  the  up-gradation/setting
up a laboratory with state-of-the-art equipment for advanced research in air
pollution  in  the  Institute  during  the  meeting.  Dr.  Bhattu  apprised  the  BoG
that  it  requires  considerable  investment  to  the  tune  of  approximately  20
Crores, as most of the equipment is very costly.
The Chairman, BoG, suggested Dr. Bhattu explore the I-STEM Web Portal, a
National  Portal  that  is  the  gateway  for  researchers  to  locate  the  specific
facilities/equipment  they  need  for  their  R&D  work  and  identify  the  one
located  closest  to  them  for  her  research  requirement.  Dr.  Bhattu  said  she
would explore the same.
The  Director  also  requested  Dr.  Bhattu  to  work  out  minimum  fund
requirements  towards  advancing  research  in  air  pollution  at  the  Institute,
and the Institute would explore arranging the same.
The  Chairman,  BoG,  and  Members  appreciated  the  presentations  made  by
Dr. Nene and Dr. Bhattu.
S-11.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The  Director  presented  the  Institute  Report  before  the  Board  of  Governors
At  the  outset,  the  Director  briefed  that  after  approval  of  the  BoG,  the
Institute  has  instituted  the  Fellowship  in  remembrance  of Prof.  Meghnad
Saha,   a  renowned  astrophysicist  and  an  advocate  for  science-based
National  development,  to  provide  an  option  to  young  Ph.D.’s  (belonging  to
SC  /ST/  NCL-OBC/EWS  categories)  to  have  rich  post-doctoral  research  and
teaching experience at IIT Jodhpur.
The Director also apprised the BoG that the Institute is successfully running
the  M.  Tech.  Programs  with  Cognizant  in  Data  and  Computational  Science
and presently 120 engineers enrolled in the programs and the Programs well
received by the Industry.
The Director also briefed that Institute has signed an Agreement with Wiley
India  Private  Limited  to  jointly  launch  short  term  as  well  as  long  term
duration  programs  in  the  following  subject  areas,  and  some  of  the  courses
may start from February 2022:
1.  PG  Diploma  –  Data  Engineering,  AR/VR,  Bioinformatics  and  other  areas
agreed upon from time to time;
2.  Online MBA and Management Certifications with a STEM focus; and
term  professional  certifications  on  Emerging  Tech  and
21st  century skills.
It was also apprised to the BoG that IIT Jodhpur has recently signed an MoU
with Agriculture University, Jodhpur, for academic collaboration, exchange of
faculty, researchers, students, and developing joint academic programs.
Prof. Akhil Ranjan Garg, BoG Member, stated that only IIT Kharagpur offers
B.Tech.  in  Agriculture,  and  IIT  Jodhpur  may  also  explore  the  same.  The
Chairman, BoG, suggested that at the beginning, Institute would explore to
start  with  Elective  Course  and  explore  the  academic  collaboration  as  per
mutually  agreed  terms  of  the  MoU  signed  with  the  Agriculture  University,
Jodhpur. The BoG appreciated the initiative of the Institute.
Later,  the  Director  apprised  that  the  number  of  Academic  Programs  of  IIT
Jodhpur reached 66 (+1 proposed) from 21 Academic Programs in AY 2018-
19  and  new  programs,  i.e.,  (i)  3  years  M.Tech.  (ii)  M.Tech.  Executive  DCS
and (iii) Doctoral Program in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science from AY
2021-22.  The  Program-wise  Student  strength  in  AY  2021-22  of  3227  and
after including 28 preparatory students of other Institutes, the total student
strength would reach 3255.
The  BoG  was  also  briefed  that  faculty  strength  reached  204  compared  to
174  in  March  2021,  including  Professor,  Associate  Professor,  Assistant
Professor,  Visiting  Professor,  Professor  of  Practice,  Professor  on  deputation,
Young Faculty Associates, and Offered.
The  Director  apprised  that  the  Institute  achieved  the  ideal  pyramidical
faculty model due to the flexible cadre system of IITs.
The Director apprised that doctors and engineers from the All India Institute
of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Jodhpur and the Indian Institute of Technology
(IIT) Jodhpur have developed low-cost ‘Talking Gloves’ and the Patent has
also  been  granted  for  this  innovation.  This  device  uses  the  principles
of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) to generate speech.
It  would  be  helpful  for  persons  with  a  speech  disability  to  convert  hand
gestures into texts or pre-recorded voices and communicate independently.
The  Department  wise  progress  of  R&D  projects  was  also  apprised  to  the
BoG.  The  fund  Analysis  regarding  funds  released  in  FY  2020-21,  Budget
allocation  by  MoE  in  FY  2021-22,  and  proposed  Revised  Estimate  for  FY
2021-22 was also briefed to the BoG.
The Director further apprised the BoG about the Faculty Laurels as below:
1.  Prof.  Mayank  Vatsa,  Department  of  CS&E  and  AIDE  School,  IIT  Jodhpur,
has  been  elected  as  “IEEE  Fellow”  for  contributions  to  secure  biometric
2.  Prof.  Mitali  Mukerji,  Deptt.  of  BB,  has  been  elected  as  Fellow  of  The
National Academy of Sciences, India (NASI)
3.  Dr.  Rakesh  K.  Sharma,  Associate  Professor,  Department  of  Chemistry,  IIT
Jodhpur,  has  been  elected  as  “Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society  of  Chemistry,
4.  Dr.  Mahesh  Kumar,  Associate  Professor,  Department  of  EE,  IIT  Jodhpur,
has been elected as “Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry, London”.
7th Convocation Invitation
The  Director  briefed  the  BoG  that  IIT  Jodhpur
7th    Convocation on  19  December  2021. Dr.  Rajesh  S.  Gokhale,  Secretary,
Department  of  Biotechnology,  Ministry  of  Science  and  Technology,  Govt.  of
India,  will  be  the  Chief  Guest  for  the Convocation Ceremony  and  deliver
his Convocation Address.  Dr.  R.  Chidambaram,  Chairman,  Board  of
Governors, IIT Jodhpur, will preside over the ceremony. The Hon'ble Minister
of Education, Govt. of India will address through video message.
Appreciation by the Chairman and Members, BoG
The Chairman and Members of the Board of Governors are pleased to record
their deep sense of appreciation for the commendable efforts put in by Prof.
Santanu  Chaudhury,  Director,  and  all  the  faculty  members  for  the
development  and  growth  of  IIT  Jodhpur  during  the  past  three  years.  They
lauded  with  pleasure  the  progress  made  by  the  Institute  in  terms  of
quantum jump in the number of enrolled students, faculty strength, and the
number of projects during this period.
Further, the Chairman and Members of the Board of Governors praised Prof.
Chaudhury  and  his  team  for  their  success  in  bringing  and  initiating  many
new megaprojects of national importance viz. (i) Technology Innovation Hub
under  DST's  National  Mission  of  Cyber-physical  Systems;  (ii)  Jodhpur  City
Knowledge and Innovation Cluster as one of six S&T Clusters in the country
under  the  aegis  of  the  office  of  PSA,  Government  of  India  on  the
recommendation  of  Prime  Minister's  Science,  Technology  and  Innovation
Advisory  Council  (PM-STIAC);  (iii)  First  BioNEST  Program  of  Rajasthan
supported  by  DBT-BIRAC;  and  several  other  research  and  consultancy
projects.  Yet  another  noteworthy  feature  was  a  jump  of  10  places  in  one
year by the Institute in the NIRF ranking.
The  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors,  in  his  remarks,  said  that  such  efforts
would help  improve the overall vibrancy of the ecosystem and enhance the
Institute's visibility at regional, national, and global levels.
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  detailed  Institute  report  presented
by the Director and appreciated the progress achieved by the Institute.
S-11.3.1  To approve:
Conferment  of  Degrees  to  the  B.Tech.,  M.Sc.,  M.Tech.,  Ph.D.
students  after  completing  all  the  academic  requirements  and
certificate  of  Specialization  to  graduating  B.Tech.  students  of
the  Institute  who  would  also  be  getting  specialization
certificate during the session 2020 – 2021; and
Award of Medals to the Students during the 7th
The Director presented the item and apprised the BoG that the Senate in its
27th  Meeting  held  on  09  November  2021  recommended  to  Confer  the
Degrees/Certificates  to  total  404  students  during  the  7th  Convocation  of  the
Institute  to  be  held  on  19  December  2021.  He  further  presented  a  program
wise summary of the graduating students as below:
S.No.  Name of Program
Number of Students Graduating
It  was  also  apprised  to  the  BoG  that  59  graduating  B.Tech.  Students  of  the
Entrepreneurship,  Management,  Artificial  Intelligence,  Design,  Engineering
Innovation, Thermofluids Engineering, and VLSI.
also  get  Certificates
The  Director  also  briefed  the  BoG  that  the  Chairman,  Senate  approved  the
recommendations  of  the  Scholarship  and  Prizes  Committee  to  award  the
various  Medals  to  the  meritorious  students  in  the  7th  Convocation  of  the
Institute, as presented in the Agenda.
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  and  approved  the  recommendations  of  the
Senate on conferment of Degrees /Certificates to the Students during the 7th
Convocation of the Institute to be held on 19 December 2021.
S-11.3.2  To consider and approve the Recommendations of the 27th Meeting of
the Senate held 09 November 2021 at IIT Jodhpur
The Director briefed the BoG about the various recommendations of the  27th
Senate  meeting  held  on  09.11.2021.  The  Board  noted  and  approved  the
recommendations of the Senate.
The Outcome of Review Committees of the Faculty Members.
The  recommendations  of  the  Annual  Appraisal  Committee/Assessment
Committees  on  the  Annual  Performance  Review  of  Faculty  Members  of  the
Institute  were  presented  before  the  BoG.  The  BoG  approved  the
recommendations of the Review Committees.
The  Board  also  discussed  the  recommendation  of  the  Review  Committee
towards  the  discontinuation  of  the  services  of  Dr.  Gaurav  Kumar,  Assistant
Professor,  School  of  Management  &  Entrepreneurship  (SME),  and  approved
S-11.4  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman.
S-11.4.1  Child Care Leave for employees of the Institute.
The  Director  apprised  the  BoG  that  Child  Care  Leave  (CCL)  has  been
Statute  20  (2)  of  the  Statutes  of  IIT  Jodhpur  that  CCL  is  “Admissible  to
women employees as per Government of India rules.”
The  Director  further  apprised  that  being  an  educational  institution  and  for
smooth  academic  activities,  the  Institute  has  framed  the  guidelines  to
regulate  the  grant  of  Child  Care  Leave  to  the  women  employees/  single
parent of the Institute. Prof. Akhil Ranjan Garg, Member, BoG, observed that
the Point No.10 of the said guidelines may be framed as under:
“The child's medical needs will be accorded Priority I, and the child's
academic needs will be accorded Priority II.”
The  Board  approved  the  suggestion  of  Prof.  Garg  for  better  clarity  in  the
Guidelines and approved the same.
S-11.4.2  Senate  Nominee  on  the  Board  of  Governors  as  per  Section  11  (e)  of
the Institutes of Technology Act 1961.
The Director briefed the Board of Governors that as per the Section 11 (e) of
the  Institutes  of  Technology  Act  1961  (amended  from  time  to  time),  the
Board  of  Governors  shall  consist  of  two  Professors  of  the  Institute,  to  be
nominated by the Senate on the Board of Governors and term of office shall
be  two  years  from  the    1st  Day  of  January  of  the  year  in  which  he  is
He further briefed the BoG that an agenda item was placed before the Senate
in  its  28th  meeting  held  on  17  December  2021,  and  the  Senate
recommended the following:
“After  detailed  discussion,  the  Senate  recommended  that  out  of  two
Professors be nominated to the BoG, as Senate nominees, one senior-
most  Professor  may  be  nominated  for  one  term,  and  the  Chairman,
Senate  may  nominate  another  professor  keeping  in  view  gender
The Board noted and approved the recommendations of the Senate.
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all members of the Board of
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur