Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
31st October, 2023 (Tuesday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 34th Meeting
31st October, 2023 (Tuesday), 4:30 P.M.
Board Room , IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present in the 34th Meeting of the Board of Governors:
1.    Sh. A. S. Kiran Kumar
2.    Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.    Prof. N.S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur   Member
4.    Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
5.    Prof. Richa Singh, Department of CS&E, IITJ
Member (Through Webex)
6.    Dr. Manish Gupta, Joint Secretary (Technical Education)
Govt. of Rajasthan
7.    Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
8.    Sh. P. G. Basak, Advisor (Administration)
9.    Dr. Somnath Ghosh, Offg. Registrar
Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain and Smt. Saumya Gupta, JS (TE), MoE, GoI could not attend
the Meeting due to other pressing commitments.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:
34.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS
At  the  outset,  Prof.  Santanu  Chaudhury,  Director,  IIT  Jodhpur  extended  a  warm
welcome  to  Sh.  A.  S.  Kiran  Kumar,  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors  as  the
Chairman  was  attending  the  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Governors,  IIT  Jodhpur  for
the  first  time.  The  Director  also  placed  on  record  the  gratitude  on  behalf  of  the
Institute  towards  the  immense  contributions  of  Dr.  R.  Chidambaram,  the
outgoing  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors  of  IIT  Jodhpur  for  his  immense
contributions  to  the  significant  development  and  overall  growth  of  the  Institute
during his tenure.
Later, Sh. A. S. Kiran Kumar, Chairman, BoG welcomed the members of the Board
of  Governors  especially  Dr.  Manish  Gupta,  Joint  Secretary,  Technical  Education,
Govt. of Rajasthan who joined the meeting online.
The  Chairman  further  praised  the  contributions  of  Dr.  R.  Chidambaram  as  the
Chairman, BoG of IIT Jodhpur during his tenure.
The  Chairman  further  emphasized  that  we  all  should  work  together  with  more
enthusiasm  towards  the  further  development  of  the  Institute  and  called  the
meeting in order.
34.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes of the 33rd Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 28th June, 2023 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The Board of Governors, confirmed the Minutes of the 33rd Meeting of the Board of
Governors, as circulated.
34.2  Institute Report by the Director, IIT Jodhpur
The  Director  presented  the  Institute  Report  before  the  Board  of  Governors  as
1.  The Institute is offering 89 Academic Programmes including the following New
Academic Programmes starting from AY 2023-24:
•  MBA in Fin-Tech. and Cyber Security
•  M. DeS. in XR / Immersive Media
•  M. Tech. in Quantum Technologies
•  M. Tech. in Data Engineering
•  M.Sc.-M.Tech. in Chemistry and Materials Engineering
•  Ph.D. in Centre for Education & Technology for Education
•  M.Tech.-Ph.D. in Intelligent VLSI Systems
•  PG Diploma in Next Generation OMICS Technologies and Applications
•  M.S. by Research in the following 7 areas:
a.  Centre of Excellence on Brain Science and Application
b.  Centre for Mathematical and Computational Economics
c.  Centre of Excellence in AI based Precision Healthcare
d.  Centre for Emerging Technologies for Sustainable Development
e.  Centre for Technology Foresight and Policy
f.  Intelligent Infrastructure
g.  Centre of Excellence on Art and Digital Immersion
•  Certificate in Data Analytics
2.  The  Board  of  Governors  was  also  apprised  that  the  present  student  strength
is 4554 in the AY 2023-24;
3.  The  present  Faculty  strength  is  261  and  27  faculty  positions  have  been
offered as on 27 October 2023;
4.  Non-faculty  strength  has  also  been  increased  from  120  to  233  as  of  27
5.  The  Financial  parameters  such  as  Status  of  Funds,  Budget  Sanction  by  the
Ministry  of  Education  (MoE)  for  F.Y.  2023-24,  Grant  Received,  and  Actual
expenditure of 2023-24 were also briefed to the Board of Governors;
6.  It was also apprised to  the  Board  of  Governors that the expected IRG for FY
2023-24 of the Institute would be approximately to the tune of ₹ 52 Crores;
7.  It was also briefed that the funds received by the Institute under CSR to the
tune of ₹145.57 Lakhs and a Philanthropic Donation of ₹ 70.00 crores.;
8.  The progress made in  securing Research & Development (R&D) projects and
funds  was  also  reported.  It  was  briefed  to  the  Board  of  Governors  that  65
Projects  and  grants  of  ₹  19.15  Crores  have  been  sanctioned/received  as
compared  to  51  and  ₹  12.72  Crores  during  the  same  period  in  the  last
Financial Year till 27th October, 2023; and
9.  The Board of Governors further briefed that presently there are 14 Start-ups
the  IIT  Jodhpur  Technology  Innovation  and  Start-up  Center
New Initiatives at IIT Jodhpur
A.  The  Director  further  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  Hon’ble  Prime
Minister  of  India  dedicated  the  Permanent  Campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur  to  the
service of the Nation on 5th October, 2023.
B.  The  Director  also  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  Prof. Ajay Kumar Sood,
Principal  Scientific  Adviser  to  the  Government  of  India  recently  visited  IIT
Jodhpur  in  connection  with  the  all  S&T  Cluster’s  meet  during  26-27th  October
2023.  Prof.  Sood  also  interacted  with  the  Faculty  Members  of  IIT  Jodhpur
during his visit.
C.  Center  for  Digital  Health-  The  Director  further  briefed  the  Board  of
Governors that IIT Jodhpur formed a Knowledge Alliance for Digital Health with
the  Industry  Partner,  M/s.  Libra  Social  Research  Foundation  (LSRF)–Not-for-
profit  organization  and  the  Institute  has  also  collaborated  with  Ayushman
Bharat Digital Mission.
The Center aims to Build up the strong inter–disciplinary academic ecosystem
of  IIT  Jodhpur  and  will  also  focus  on  Health  for  all  through  digital
transformation  of  healthcare  involving  cutting-edge  research,  state-of-the-art
academic programmes, open data eco-system and disruptive innovations. The
Center  will  work  to  make  affordable  digital  healthcare  reach  to  the  people
without  corresponding  increase  in  the  requirement  of  physical  infrastructure
and human resources.
Major Initiatives @ IIT Jodhpur
1.  iHub  Drishti,  the  Technology  Innovation  Hub  (TIH):  iHub  Drishti,  the
Technology  Innovation  Hub  (TIH)  at  IIT  Jodhpur,  is  a  Section-8  Company,
established  under  National  Mission  on  Interdisciplinary  Cyber-Physical
System (NM-ICPS) in 2020.
2.  Jodhpur City Knowledge  and Innovation  Foundation  (JCKIF):    JCKIF
is  one  of  the  six  S&T  Clusters  set  up  in  the  country  by  the  Office  of  PSA,
Government  of  India  under  the  Prime  Minister’s  Science,  Technology  and
Innovation Advisory Council initiative.
3.  Technology  Innovation  &  Start-up  Centre  (TISC):  IITJ-TISC,  the
umbrella incubation center of IITJ has also been incorporated as Section-8
Company,  with  a  mandate  to  incubate  Deep-Tech  Startups  along  with  the
aim of developing a vibrant entrepreneurship ecosystem in the Institute and
the larger region in the state of Rajasthan.
4.  Rishabh  Centre  for  Research  and  Innovation  in  Clean  Energy
(RiCRICE)  for  the  purpose  of  conducting  research  and  technology
development  in  close  collaboration  with  relevant  industries,  academia  and
other  organizations  in  areas  of  Clean  Energy.  This centre is  aimed
at facilitating  generation  of  commercialisable  technologies   for  energy
sustainability. This will  be the first R&D Centre at IIT Jodhpur being set-up
through philanthropic contributions.
5.  Ayurtech: A Centre of Excellence in Ayurtech supported by the Ministry of
Ayush  with  an  outlay  of  ₹  10  Cr.  has  been  established  recently  at  the
Institute under the School of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science (AIDE),
in  medical  technology  to  our  country,  IIT  Jodhpur
6.  Deep-Tech  Biodesign  Centre  for  Medical  Technology:  To  bring
collaboration  with  AIIMS  Jodhpur  has  established  a  Multi-disciplinary
Biodesign  Centre,  funded  by  Department  of  Biotechnology,  Government  of
India,  to  train,  nurture  and  transform  clinicians  and  engineers  into  the
Deep-Tech innovators in the field of Medical / Health Technology.
7.  IIT  Jodhpur  -  Jal  Jeevan  Mission  Centre  for  Sustainable  Drinking
Water:  In  January  2022,  National  Jal  Jeevan  Mission,  Department  of
Drinking  Water  &  Sanitation,  Ministry  of  Jal  Shakti  has  conveyed  the
sanction of the President of India and the Institute has set up JJM-Professor
Chair on 'Sustainability of Drinking Water Sources' in IIT Jodhpur at a total
cost of ₹ 6.02 crore for five years duration.
8.  MeitY  Centre  for  Advanced  Security  Technology  Development  in
Cyber  Physical  Systems:  Ministry  of  Electronics  and  Information
Technology  (MeitY)  has  funded  the  setting  up  of  a  Centre  for  Advanced
Security Technology Development in Cyber Physical Systems in March 2022
with a sanctioned grant of ₹ 5.92 Crore.
9.  Centre of Excellence(s) (CoE)
A.  The  School  of  Artificial  Intelligence  and  Data  Science  (AIDE),  IIT  Jodhpur
has  Centres  of  Excellence  to  enable  a  group  of  faculty  to  focus  on  very
specific  areas  for  high  quality  research  output  and  specialised  courses.
Centres  of  Excellence  provide  a  unique  and  distinguished  transdisciplinary
capability to carry out high quality fundamental and translational research :
➢  Brain Science and Applications
➢  Mathematical and Computational Economics
➢  Centre of Excellence in Intelligent Infrastructure
➢  Centre of Excellence in AI based Precision Healthcare
B.  The Centre of Excellence for Arts and Digital Immersion (ADI)  is an
upcoming  transdisciplinary  center  located  within  the  School  of  Liberal  Arts
(SoLA)  at  IIT  Jodhpur.  It  is  envisioned  as  a  futuristic  research  hub  for
exploring  the  intersections  emerging  from  Art  and  Digital  Technologies.  It
aims  to  excel  in  creative  work  in  Visual  arts,  such  as  painting,  sculpture,
Performing  Arts  such  as  Theatre,  Music,  Dance,  and  other  creative  art
forms.  As  for  digital  immersion,  ADI  encourages  the  use  of  digital
technologies,  such  as  Virtual  Reality  (VR),  Augmented  Reality  (AR),  Mixed
Reality (MR), and Extended Reality (ER), all of which create an alternate or
C.  Center of Excellence on Intellectual Property (IP) with following
➢  To be coveted destination for Education and Research on IP and related areas
➢  To  be  leading  Center  for  IP  generation,  IP  Portfolio  construction  and  IP
➢  To be the prime mover for creating IP strategy for Start-ups and innovators
D.  DRDO Industry Academia-Centre  of  Excellence  (DIA-CoE),  IIT
Jodhpur  for  collaborative  directed  research  under  the  identified  research
areas. DRDO and IITJ have jointly decided the following research verticals:
➢  Desert Warfare Technologies
➢  Futuristic Omni Mobility Systems
➢  AI for information and war gaming technologies
The Chairman, Board of Governors and members appreciated the Institute Report
presented  by  the  Director  on  the  continuous  growth  of  the  Institute  through  his
determined  efforts  and  appreciated  the  same.  He  especially  mentioned  the  effort
put  forward  by  the  Institute  towards  the  Mission  Mode  Recruitment  to  fill  up  the
34.2.1  Action Taken Report on the decisions taken by the Board of Governors in its
33rd Meeting held on 28th June, 2023
The Board of Governors noted the Action Taken Report (ATR) with satisfaction.
34.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  30th  Meeting  of  the
Finance  Committee  scheduled  for  31st  October,  2023  (at  11:30  AM)  in  the
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The  recommendations  of  the  Finance  Committee  made  in  its  30th  meeting  held  on
31st  October,  2023  (at  11:30  AM)  were  presented  before  the  Board  of  Governors.
The  BoG  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  30th  Meeting  of  the  Finance
Committee as under:
30.2.2: Revised Estimates FY 2023-24 and Budget Estimates FY 2024-25
On the recommendation of the Finance Committee made in its 30th Meeting held on
31st October, 2023, the Board of Governors approved the following:
1.  Revised Budget Estimates for the F. Y. 2023-24 and Budget Estimates for the
F. Y. 2024-25; and
2.  Suggested the Institute to request the Ministry of Education to sanction atleast
an  additional  Budget  of  ₹93.90  Crores  for  the  F.  Y.  2023-24  to  enable  the
Institute to effectively manage its core activities.
The Board also approved the following recommendation of the Finance Committee
and suggested to the Institute to take necessary action:
•  To  present  the  cash  flow  at  the  time  of  budget  discussion  in  the  Finance
Committee in the future;
•  To take into account all the demands as per increased sanctioned strength
in Budget Estimates judiciously;
•  Appropriate  Explanatory  notes  should  be  given  for  specific  Budget  Heads,
having significant changes in two consecutive financial years; and
•  Additional fields of budget may be added, if required, for better clarity and
comparability while analyzing the overall Budget proposal.
30.2.4:  To  consider  and  approve  the  rationalization  of  the  Non-Faculty
Positions  as  per  the  revised  sanctioned  strength  by  the  Ministry  of
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  approval  of  the  Ministry  of  Education,  Govt.  of
India  conveyed  vide  Letter  No.  F.  No.  12-12/2018-TS-I  dated  04th  October,  2023
towards the increase of sanctioned strength of Faculty and Non-faculty positions in
line with the already approved ratio by the Ministry of Education as below:
The Board of Governors also noted that the rationalization of the above Non-faculty
positions as per the requirement of the Institute was presented before the Finance
Committee in its 30th Meeting held on 31st October, 2023 and the FC recommended
the same to the Board of Governors for approval.
The Board approved the rationalization of the 447 Non-faculty positions.
30.2.5:  To  consider  and  approve  Faculty  &  Non-faculty  positions  in  line
with the approved ratio by the Ministry of Education
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  that  the  Ministry  of  Education,  Govt.  of  India  has
approved  the  increased  sanctioned  strength  of  Faculty  and  Non-Faculty  Positions
vide  letter  F.No.12-12/2018-TS-I  dated  4th  October,  2023  as  per  the  Institutes  of
Technology Act 1961 and the Statutes of the Institute.
As per the approval of the Ministry of Education and on the recommendation of the
Finance  Committee  made  in  its  30th  Meeting  held  on  31st  October,  2023,  the  BoG
approved the revised sanctioned strength as below:
455 - Faculty
501 - Non-faculty
30.2.6: To consider and  approve the Final Report of the Task Force for the
New Financial Model of the Institute
The Director apprised the Board of Governors that the Interim Report of the Task
Force  for  New  Financial  Model  of  Institute  was  presented  before  the  Finance
Committee  in  its  28th  Meeting  held  on  13th  March,  2023,  and  subsequently  to  the
Board  of  Governors  in  its  32nd  Meeting  held  on  14th  March,  2023.  The  Finance
Committee  and  the  Board  of  Governors  suggested  minor  revisions  in  the  Report
and now the Task Force has submitted the Final Report.
The Director further briefed that the Final Report of the Task Force was presented
before  the  Finance  Committee  in  its  30th  Meeting  held  on  31st  October,  2023  and
Finance  Committee  recommended  the  following  to  the  Board  of  Governors  for
1.  Final  Report  of  the  Financial  Task  Force  on  New  Financial  Model  of  the
Institute ; and
2.  Forming a Committee for effective implementation of the recommendations of
Task Force and dynamic tracking of the same.
The Board of Governors appreciated the efforts put in by the Task Force to prepare
such a comprehensive Report and approved the same and suggested the Institute
to take necessary steps to implement the recommendations of the Task Force.
To consider and approve the recommendations of 31st Meeting of
the  Building  & Works  Committee  (B&WC)  held  on  18th  October,
2023 at IIT Jodhpur- Proposal for HEFA Loan of ₹570 Crores for
Phase 3B Development of the Institute
To  consider  the  Proposal  for  HEFA  Loan  of  ₹150  Crores  for
procurement of Research Equipment
To Consider the recommendation of the 31st Meeting of the Building
&  Works  Committee  (B&WC)  held  on  18th  October,  2023:  Proposal
for  HEFA  Loan  of  ₹570  Crores  for  Phase  3B  Development  of  the
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  on  the  recommendation  of  the
Building  &  Works  Committee  made  in  its  31st  Meeting  held  on  18th  October,  2023
and considering the requirement of the Institute, the Finance Committee in its 30th
Meeting  held  on  31st  October,  2023  recommended  the  proposal  of  Phase  3B
Development  work  of  IIT  Jodhpur  for  an  amount  of  ₹570.00  Crores  through  HEFA
loan to the Board of Governors for approval.
To  consider  the  Proposal  for  HEFA  Loan  of  ₹150  Crores  for
procurement of Research Equipment
The Director also briefed the Board of Governors that the on the recommendation
of  the  Executive  Committee  of  Senate  (ECS),  IIT  Jodhpur  made  in  its  Special
Meeting  held  on  16th  October,  2023  and  after  analyzing  the  demand  for  further
establishing the Research facilities in the Laboratories of the Institute, the  Finance
Committee  in  its  30th  Meeting  held  on  31st    October,  2023  also  recommended  to
procure  equipment  of  ₹150  Crores  through  HEFA  Loan  to  the  Board  of  Governors
After  detailed  deliberation,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  proposal  of  (i)
Phase 3B Development work of IIT Jodhpur for an amount of  ₹570.00 Crores and
(ii) Proposal for procurement of Research  equipment of  ₹150  Cr. (Total:  ₹570 Cr.
(Infrastructure)  +  ₹150  Cr  (Equipment)  =  ₹720  Cr.)  through  HEFA  loan  and
further submission to the HEFA as per new guidelines issued through O.M. No. 41-
01/2023-TS-VII (Pt. 2) dated 21.09.2023 for consideration.
34.3.3  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  35th  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on 12th October, 2023 at IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  Senate  and
suggested that the Minutes of the Senate may be recorded more elaborately.
To  consider  and  approve  the  conferment  of  the  Award  of  B.Tech.,  M.Sc.,
M.Tech.,  MBA,  MBA-Technology,  Masters  in  Medical  Technologies,  M.Sc.-
M.Tech.,  and  Ph.D.  Degrees,  PG  Diploma  /  Certificate  to  students,  who
meet the various academic requirements during the 9th Convocation of the
Institute scheduled for 21st November, 2023 at IIT Jodhpur
The Director briefed the Board of Governors that the Senate in its 35 th Meeting held
on  12th  October,  2023  based  on  the  verification  of  various  academic  requirements
for the award of B.Tech.,  B.Tech. Minor/Specialization,  M.Sc., M.Tech., MBA, MBA-
Technology, Masters in Medical Technologies, M.Sc.-M.Tech., and Ph.D. Degrees, PG
Diploma/Certificate  in  respective  disciplines  recommended  following  814  students
for the award of Degrees / Diploma / Certificates:
1.  315 students registered in the B.Tech.(CSE), B.Tech.(ME), B.Tech.(EE), and
2.  92  students  registered  in  the  M.Sc.(CY),  M.Sc.(DH),  M.Sc.(MA)  and
3.  04 students registered in the M.Sc.-M.Tech. Program;
4.  282  students  registered  in  the  M.Tech.(BB),  M.Tech.(CH),  M.Tech.(AI),
M.Tech.(SIoT),  M.Tech.(DCS),  M.Tech.
5.  77 students registered in the MBA and MBA-Technology Programs;
6.  06 students registered in the Masters in Medical Technologies Programs;
7.  18 students registered in the Ph.D. Program; and
8.  20 students registered in the PG Diploma/Certificate.
The  Board  of  Governors  also  noted  that  out  of  315  B.Tech.  students,  17  B.Tech.
students  have  also  met  the  requirements  for  the  award  of  Minor  /  Specialization
in  Entrepreneurship,  Management,  Visual  Computing,  Artificial
The BoG was further apprised that for any other outstanding cases that the Senate
in its 35th Meeting held on 12th  October, 2023 authorized the Chairman, Senate to
approve the names of students for the award of the degrees subject to fulfillment of
the academic requirements and accordingly the Final Graduation List will be placed
before the Board of Governors.
To consider and approve the appointment of Deans at the Institute.
The Director apprised the Board of Governors that considering the fast expansion of
the  Institute  and  the  need  for  engaging  Faculty  Members  in  the  decision-making
process,  the  Institute  appointed  various  Deans  and  Associate  Deans  to  assist  the
Director w.e.f. 1st September, 2023 in various functions of the Institute.
The Board of Governors approved the appointment of Deans and Associate Deans.
To  consider  and  approve  (i)  Adoption  of  Separate  Audit  Report  (SAR)  on
Annual  Accounts  of  the  Institute  for  the  Financial  Year  2022-23  and  (ii)
Annual Report of the Institute for the FY 2022-23.
(i)  Adoption  of  Separate  Audit  Report  (SAR)  on  Annual  Accounts  of  the
Institute for the Financial Year 2022-23
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee  on  the  adoption  of  SAR  on  Annual  Accounts  of  the  Institute  for  the  FY
2022-23 and approved the same:
“The  Director  apprised  the  Finance  Committee  that  the  Final  Separate  Audit
Report  (SAR)  on  Account  of  the  Institute  for  F.  Y.  2022-23  and  Certified
Annual Accounts have been received from the Office of CAG.
The  Finance  Committee  discussed  minor  observations  by  the  CAG  and
expressed  satisfaction  on  the  overall  report.  The  Finance  Committee  further
suggested  incorporating  required  changes  in  Annual  Statement  of  Accounts
for  the  Current  Financial  Year  2023-24  to  avoid  the  recurrence  of  similar
observations from the CAG.
The Finance Committee recommended the Final Separate Audit Report (SAR)
and Audited Annual Accounts for the F. Y. 2022-23 to the Board of Governors
(ii) Annual Report of the Institute for the FY 2022-23
The  Annual  Report  for  the  year  2022-23  was  presented  before  the  Board  of
Governors. After careful review of the Annual Report, the BoG approved the Annual
Report  and  directed  the  Institute  to  send  the  Annual  Accounts  and  Annual  Report
for  the  FY  2022-23  to  the  Ministry  of  Education  for  laying  on  the  Table  of  the
To  consider  the  re-constitution  of  the  Building  &  Works  Committee  of  IIT
The Board of Governors was briefed that as per Clause 8(1) of the Statutes of the
Institute,  the  Building  and  Works  Committee  shall  consist  of  not  less  than  five
and  not  more  than  seven  members  as  may  be  appointed  by  the  Board  of
The Director briefed that as per the existing constitution of the B&WC approved by
the  Board  of  Governors,  Superintending  Engineer,  IIT  Jodhpur  was  nominated  as
the  Member  of  the  B&WC  and  at  present  the  post  of  Superintending  Engineer  is
vacant. Therefore, EE (Civil), IIT Jodhpur may be nominated as Member, B&WC and
Associate Dean (Infrastructure-Civil) and Associate Dean (Infrastructure-Electrical),
IIT Jodhpur may be nominated as Special Invitees in the B&WC.
After  detailed  deliberation,  the  Board  of  Governors  resolved  that  the  Director  may
nominate  the  SE  /  EE  of  IIT  Jodhpur  as  Member  of  the  B&WC  and  report  to  the
Board of Governors for information and ratification.
To  consider  and  approve  the  Delegation  of  Financial  and  Administrative
Powers to various functionaries of the Institute as per the provisions of the
Act & Statutes
The  Board  of  Governors  was  briefed  that  as  per  the  Clause  12  (2)  (xvi)  (Director
and its powers and functions) of the Statutes of the IIT Jodhpur “The Director may,
with the approval of the Board delegate any of the powers, vested in him by the Act
and Statutes to one or more members of the academic or administrative staff of the
It  was  further  briefed  to  the  BoG  that  as  per  the  above  provision  of  the  Act  &
Statutes of IIT Jodhpur, the draft of the  Delegation of Financial and Administrative
Powers  to  various  functionaries  of  the  Institute  has  been  prepared  for  the  smooth
functioning of the Institute.
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  Delegation  of
Financial and Administrative Powers to various functionaries of the Institute as per
the provisions of the Act & Statutes w.e.f. 1st September, 2023.
34.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
34.4.1  Report on the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020
The Board noted the report on the implementation of the National Education Policy-
2020  as  presented  in  the  Agenda  and  appreciated  the  initiatives  taken  by  the
Institute towards the implementation of the NEP-2020.
34.4.2  Report on the status of filling up Backlog vacancies
The  Board  noted  the  report  on  the  status  of  the  filling-up  of  backlog  vacancies  as
presented in the Agenda and appreciated the efforts made by the Institute towards
filling up vacancies.
The Board of Governors requested the Director to brief the BoG that if there is any
Fellowship  being  provided  as  an  option  to  young  Ph.D’s  (belonging  to  reserved
categories)  to  have  rich  Post-doctoral  research  and  teaching  experience  at  IIT
The  Director,  IIT  Jodhpur  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Institute  has
Fellowship  approved  by  the  Board  of  Governors  named  after  Prof.  Meghnad  Saha,
an  eminent  astrophysicist  to  provide  an  option  to  young  Ph.D’s  (belonging  to
reserved categories) to have rich Post-doctoral research and teaching experience at
IIT  Jodhpur  with  a  Fellowship  amount  of  ₹75K  per  month  after  defence  of  Ph.D.
Thesis,  whereas  ₹55  K  per  month  will  be  awarded  before  the  defence  of  Ph.D.
The Chairman, Board of Governors emphasized that the fellowship guidelines should
be  revised  to  make  the  Fellowship  more  attractive.  The  Fellowship  should  also  be
available to the Ph.D. graduates of the Institute.
The  Director  assured  that  the  Agenda  item  will  be  placed  before  the  Board  of
Governors in its regular meeting for discussion and approval.
34.4.3  Report  on  Faculty  Members  and  Staff  Members  joining  and  resigning  from
The Board of Governors noted the report.
34.4.4  Adoption of Circulars of Ministry of Education, Government of India
The Board approved the adoption of the O.Ms. as presented in the Agenda.
34.4.5  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
since the last meeting of the BoG
The Board noted the Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of
the Institute since the last meeting of the BoG.
The  Chairman,  BoG  suggested  that  the  Institute  may  consider  to  constitute  a
Project  Monitoring  Committee  for  effective  monitoring  of  the  ongoing  Projects  and
their  targeted  delivery  because  their  performance  is  linked  with  credibility  of  the
The Director welcomed the suggestion of the BoG and  stated that the Institute will
constitute a Committee for Project monitoring and report the status to the Board.
34.4.6  Report  of  MoUs/Agreement(s)  signed  with  different  Institutions  /
organizations / companies by the Institute
The Board noted the Report of MoUs/Agreement(s) signed with different Institutions
/ Organizations / Companies by the Institute.
34.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
34.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
Reports of Selection Committees of Faculty Members
The Board of Governors noted the Selection Committee Reports of the appointment
of 33 Faculty Members in various Departments and for one Selection Committee on
18-19 July, 2023 for the Department of Chemistry reported None Found Suitable
(NFS). The BoG ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG.
(b)  Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note on extension /
appointment through Standing Committee
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  various  approvals  accorded  by  the  Chairman,
BoG on appointments /extensions of 17 Young Faculty Associate / Adjunct Faculty /
Adjunct  Professor  of  Practice  /  Visiting  Professor  /  Professor  of  Practice  (Sports)
through  Standing  Committees.  The  BoG  ratified  the  various  above  approvals
accorded by the Chairman, BoG.
Reports of Selection Committees of Staff Members
The Board of Governors noted the Selection Committee Reports of the appointment
of  95  Non-teaching  positions  and  15  Non-teaching  positions  reported  as  None
Found  Suitable  (NFS).  The  BoG  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,
BoG / Director (for the case of Group B and C positions).
Reports  of  Selection  Committees  under  the  Limited  Departmental
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  Selection  Committee  Reports  under  Limited
Departmental  Examination  (LDE)  for  the  appointment  of  16  Non-teaching  Staff
Members  against  a  total  of  28  vacancies  in  different  cadres.  The  BoG  ratified  the
approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG / Director.
Various approvals accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note
The Board of Governors noted the following approvals accorded by the Chairman,
BoG through U.O. Notes.
34.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  various  initiatives  undertaken  by  the  IIT  Jodhpur  and
appreciated the committed efforts under the visionary leadership of the Director.
The Meeting concluded with thanks to the Chair and Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur