Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
8th October 2021 (Friday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 27th Meeting
8th October 2021 (Friday), 11:00 A.M.
Board Room/ Webex, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present/ attended through Video-conferencing:
Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to Govt. of India
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Dean (R&D), IIT Jodhpur
Sh. N.L. Meena, Secretary, Higher & Technical Education, Govt. of
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admin.) & Offg. Registrar
The following members were not present
Sh. Rakesh Ranjan, Additional Secretary (TE), Ministry of Education, *  Member
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, MD & CEO, Jain Irrigation, Jalgaon
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur**
*The Ministry of Education had issued the Comments on the Agenda vide letter No. F.No.12-8/2018-TS.1
(pt.1) dated 08.10.2021, and the same was considered in the Meeting.
**Prof. Akhil R. Garg,  Member, BoG,  was granted leave  of absence  as he  had  intimated  his inability to
attend the meeting due to pre-occupancy.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the items of the Agenda:
27.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
The  Chairman,  BoG,  welcomed  all  the  members  of  the  Board  of  Governors  and
recalled  the  visit  of  Sh.  M.  Venkaiah  Naidu,  the  Hon’ble  Vice  President  of  India,  to
the  Institute  on  28  September  2021  and  appreciated  the  efforts  made  by  the
Institute  for  successfully  conducting  the  event.  Then,  the  Chairman  called  the
meeting in order.
27.1.1  To  Confirm  the  Minutes  of  26th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of  Governors
held on 1 July 2021 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur.
The Board confirmed the Minutes of the 26th Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 1 July 2021, as circulated.
27.1.2  Presentation  by  the  two  faculty  members  on  their  research  work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
As  per  the  decision  of  the  BoG  taken  in  its  24th  Meeting  held  on  5.12.2020,  the
following  two  Faculty  Members  of  the  Institute  made  presentation  before  the  BoG
about their research work:
1.  Dr. Kaushal A. Desai
Dr. Kaushal A.  Desai,  Associate  Professor,  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering,
presented  research  activities  of  the  Automated  Manufacturing  Research  group  at
Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering,  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  presentation  highlighted
research  expertise  and  facilities  available  with  the  group,  focusing  on  three  major
research  domains;  CAD/CAM  and  CNC  Machine  Tools;  Technologies  for  Smart
Manufacturing  and  Industry  4.0  and;  New  Product  Design  and  Development.  The
outcomes  of  the  recently  completed  SERB  project  on  developing  physics-based
error  control  approaches  during  CNC  milling  of  thin-walled  components  were
presented.  The  ongoing  projects  on  transforming  legacy  equipment  into  a  Smart
Manufacturing  framework  and  developing  vision-based  solutions  for  inspection
applications  (in  collaboration  with  local  MSME  and  National  Mission  on  Cyber-
Physical  Systems)  were  also  presented.  The  ongoing  work  about  the  development
of indigenous medical devices was presented.
The  Chairman,  BoG,  asked  Dr.  Desai  to  explore  the  possibility  of  linking  with
Research  groups  working  on  Medical  technologies  /medical  devices  to  benefit
society at large from new inventions in medical technologies.
The BoG appreciated the research work and advised collaboration of activities with
the  groups  in  other  IITs.  The  Chairman  also  emphasized  establishing  collaborative
platforms  to  accelerate  medical  device  development  activities  in  the  country,  and
IIT Jodhpur may lead the initiative.
The  Director  seconded  Chairman,  BoG,  and  felt  the  need  to  develop  and
manufacture  medical  devices  in  India,  as  most  medical  devices  /technologies  are
being imported by the Country.
The BoG appreciated the research work presented by Dr. Desai.
2.  Dr. Sushmita Jha
Dr  Sushmita  Jha,  Associate  Professor  in  the  Department  of  Bioscience  and
Bioengineering,  presented  her  research  titled  "Retro-engineering  of  Brain  tumours
for  Personalized  medicine".   Dr.  Jha  explained  that  her  research  work  at  IITJ
focuses  on  understanding  innate  immunity,  inflammation,  and  tumor  biology  in
brain  tumour  (glioma)  pathogenesis  and  inflammatory  pathways  at  the  nano-bio
interface utilizing 1) mini tumours created in the laboratory from patient samples 2)
cell culture 3) omics approaches 4) microscopy. Dr. Jha's presentation talked about
the multipronged  data-driven  and  experimental  approaches  utilized  to  elucidate  a
novel biomarker for glioblastoma prognosis and identify novel cellular and molecular
pathways  of  inflammation  in  the  brain.  Dr.  Jha  briefed  the  BoG  that  she  has
collaborated  with  colleagues  within  the  Institute  across  Departments,  Institutes  in
India,  and  abroad  to  innovate  transdisciplinary  approaches.  The  BoG  members
appreciated  the  research  work  and  congratulated  her  on  tackling  a  challenging
The  Chairman,  BoG,  requested  Prof.  N.S.  Shekhawat,  Member,  BoG,  to  share  his
views on the presentation made by Dr. Jha. Prof. Shekhawat suggested  advancing
her  research  using  Cell  Culture  from  native  plants  to  treat  disease(s)  as  many
countries use this technique.
The Chairman, BoG, and Members appreciated the presentations made by Dr. Desai
and Dr. Jha.
27.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The Director presented the Institute Report before the Board of Governors as below:
The  Board  of  Governors  was  apprised  that  the  number  of  Academic  Programs  of  IIT
Jodhpur  will  reach  66  (+1  proposed)  from  21  Academic  Programs  in  AY  2018-19  and
new programs (i) 3 years M.Tech. (ii) M.Tech. Executive DCS and (iii) Doctoral Program
in  Artificial  Intelligence  and  Data  Science  will  be  offered  from  AY  2021-22.  The
Program-wise Student strength in AY 2021-22 of 2618.
The Director also apprised the BoG that the Institute is offering M. Tech. programmes
with  Cognizant  in  Data  and  Computational  Science  and  presently  120  engineers
enrolled in the programs.
Implementation of National Education Policy (NEP) by the IIT Jodhpur
The Director briefed the BoG about ongoing plan for implementation of NEP by IIT
Jodhpur as below:
•  A multi-entry, multi-exit programme leading to Certificate, Diploma and Degree
•  Virtual and Augmented Reality
Is being planned to  be offered jointly by faculty from IITJ, IITD, IITB and and
other Institutions under the aegis of iHub-Drishti.
•  Multiple exit and course options implemented in B.Tech.
•  Exit with B.Sc.  in Engineering Science
•  Switch to B.Tech. in Engineering Science
•  Option Branch change twice (at the end of first year and Second year)
•  Double Degree Engineering Science + Discipline (With additional credits)
•  Option of choosing B.Tech.-M.Tech.  OR B.Tech.-MBA Dual Degree at the
end of three years
•  Provision for Capability Linked Minor areas and Specialisations
The Director further briefed the BoG that new B.Tech. Admission is likely to happen
in  November  2021,  and  classes  are  likely  to  start  from  the  1st  week  of  December
The  BoG  was  also  briefed  that  faculty  strength  reached  201  compared  to  129    in
March  2020,  including  Professor,  Associate  Professor,  Assistant  Professor,  Visiting
Professor,  Professor  of  Practice,  Professor  on  deputation,  Young  Faculty  Associates
The  progress  of  R&D  Projects  was  also  apprised,  and  the  Director  briefed  the  BoG
that  the  new  R&D  Projects  and  Grant  is  currently  lower,  but  Institute  will  likely  to
get  more  projects  and  grants  during  Feb-March  2022.  Fund  Analysis  regarding  RE
2020-21,  Fund  received  from  MoE,  actual  expenses,  and  fund  Sources  was  also
apprised to the Board.
The Director briefed the BoG that the Institute is planning for the 7th Convocation of
the  Institute  either  on  15/16/17  December  2021.  He  briefed  the  BoG  that
Convocation  will  be  organized  in  the  Hybrid  mode  in  which  a  limited  number  of
students will be allowed physically, and the rest will attend online.
The Director further apprised the BoG that the Institute is pursuing to have Hon’ble
Education Minister, MoE, Govt. of India, as the Chief Guest of the Convocation.
The BoG noted the same.
Honoris Causa Doctoral Degree
The Director briefed the Board of Governors that  Honoris Causa Doctoral Degree is
the most distinguished honor the Institute can bestow on an individual. This honour
is to be conferred on a distinguished person who has consistently made outstanding
contributions  over  a  considerable  period  of  time  in  the  pursuit  of  knowledge  and
achievements  in  human  progress,  mainly  in  the  Academic  and/or  Research
environment in the field of Science, Technology, Humanities, and Social Sciences.
But,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  no  provision  of  conferment  of  the  Honoris  Causa  Doctoral
Degree, and the Institute is proposing to frame the guidelines for the Honoris Causa
The Chairman and members of the BoG was in opinion that the IIT Jodhpur should
have the provision of conferment of Honoris Causa Doctoral Degree.
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  detailed  Institute  report  presented  by  the
Director and appreciated the progress achieved by the Institute.
27.2.1  Report on Action Taken on the 26th Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 1 July 2021 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The Board of  Governors noted the Action Taken Report (ATR) on  various decisions
taken in the 26th Meeting of the Board of Governors held on 1 July 2021.
27.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
27.3.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  22nd  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee to be held on 06 August 2021 at IIT Jodhpur.
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  Finance  Committee
made  in  its  22nd  meeting  held  on  6  August  2021.  The  BoG  also  noted  the
recommendations of the Finance Committee on the guidelines for faculty members
joining  the  Institute  upon  availing  Sabbatical  leave  and  approved  the  payment  of
honorarium/remuneration to such faculty members from the date of the approval of
the Finance Committee.
27.3.2  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  23rd  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee to be held on 07 October 2021 at IIT Jodhpur
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  23rd  meeting  of  the  Finance
Committee  was  held  on  7  October  2021  in  IIT  Jodhpur  and  then  presented  the
recommendations of the Finance Committee before the BoG. The BoG approved the
recommendations of the 23rd Meeting of the Finance Committee, made observations
on the following items, and approved as under:
23.1.4: To consider payment of HRA at par with “Y” Class city to the employees as
an interim measure.
The Board of Governors noted and approved the following recommendation of the
“The  Finance  Committee  noted  the  communication  received  from  the  MoE.
The Finance Committee was of the opinion that the request of the IIT Jodhpur
for HRA as per “ Y” Class city is logically correct in light of the recent gazette
notification  by  the  Govt.  of  Rajasthan  declaring  the  area  where  IIT  Jodhpur
situated  under  the  Urban  Agglomeration  (UA)  and  other  nearby  Institutions
are paying HRA as per “Y” Class city.”
The Board of Governors noted the recommendations of the Finance Committee and
expressed  that  the  Institute  should  continue  to  follow-up  the  matter  with  the
Ministry of Education to resolve it at the earliest.
Annual Accounts for FY 2020-21
The FC noted that the Institute had forwarded the Annual Account to the CAG after
taking  approval  from  the  Chairman,  BoG.  The  Audit  by  the  CAG  has  already  been
initiated w.e.f. 27.9.2021 and undergoing.
The  outcome  of  the  Committee  constituted  to  analyze  expenditure  under  the
A report on review of recurring expenditure under OH-31 was also presented in the
meeting;  Chairperson  emphasized  implementing  the  suggestions  given  by  the
Committee  and  suggested  that  a  clear  footnote  should  be  included  where
comparisons have been made for better clarity.
The BoG noted the same.
23.2.2: Proposed Revised Estimates for FY 2021-22 and Budget Estimates
for FY 2022-23
The Board of Governors noted and approved the following recommendation of the
”The Finance Committee was apprised about the Proposed Revised Estimates
for FY 2021-22 and Budget Estimates for FY 2022-23. The FC noted that the
demands in line with progress of the Institute. The Committee recommended
the following to the Board of Governors for approval:
Rs. In Crores
RE 2021-22  BE 2022-23
Recurring Expenditure OH-31
Salary Expenditure OH-36
Creation of Capital Assets OH-35  58.68
The Committee expected additional release of Grants-in-Aid from Ministry of
Education, Government of India in view of aforementioned demand.”
23.2.5: To consider the recommendations of the 5th Meeting of Research &
Development Management Committee held on 05 July 2021
The Board of Governors noted and approved the following recommendation of the
“The  Finance  Committee  noted  the  comments  received  from  the  Ministry  of
Education  that  only  Director  and  Dean  (R&D)  may  be  considered  for
delegation  of  powers.  After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Finance  Committee
suggested  that  IIT  Jodhpur  may  adopt  the  practice  followed  by  the  IIT
27.3.3  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  25th  Meeting  of  the
Building & Works Committee held on 20 September 2021.
The  Director  briefed  the  BoG  that  the  recommendations  of  the  B&WC  made  in  its
25th  meeting  held  on  20.09.2021  was  placed  before  the  Finance  Committee  in  its
23rd  meeting  held  on  7  October  2021.  The  Board  noted  the
recommendations of the Finance Committee on the recommendations of the B&WC:
“The  Finance  Committee  noted  the  recommendations  of  the  B&WC  and
comments of the MoE that “May be considered. Civil works & infrastructure are to
be met from HEFA loan.”
The Director apprised the FC that Institute has already submitted a proposal for
an  additional  HEFA  Loan  to  meet  the  urgent  need  of  the  Institute  to  cater  the
need, but the MoE has not yet approved it.
He  further  apprised  that  the  Institute  is  in  urgent  need  of  accommodation  for
faculty  and  students  on  campus,  as  the  Institute  has  ran  out  of  built-up
accommodation in campus.
B&WC Agenda No. 25.2.3: Construction of one Hostel G+3 (~320 Capacity) and
Transit accommodation (40 nos. capacity) is proposed for
Faculties to meet the urgent requirement.
The  Finance  Committee  noted  the  recommendation  of  the  B&WC  and
recommended    to  BoG  for  accord  of  Administrative  Approval  and  Expenditure
Sanction  (AA&ES)  amounting  to  Rs.43,59,90,710/-  out  of  IRG/Corpus  of  the
Institute  for  the  construction  of  one  Hostel  G+3  (~320  Capacity)  and  Transit
accommodation (40 nos. capacity) for faculty members to meet the urgent need.
B&WC Agenda No.25.2.5: Additional cost for Running Operations, Maintenance
and minor work of student hostels,  B-type faculty
housing, Academic buildings and External Infrastructure
i/c internal and external structure like tunnel, roads,
WTP, DWTS and other services for Permanent Campus of
IIT Jodhpur at Karwar (Phase I & II) from 01 January
2020 to 10 May 2021 amounting to Rs. 1,41,60,693; the
cost increased due to extended time for extra 04 months
(i.e., from January 2021 to April 2021) and additional
The  Finance  Committee  endorsed  the  recommendations  of  the  B&WC  and
recommended  to  BoG  for  accord  of  Administrative  Approval  and  Expenditure
Sanction (AA&ES) amounting to Rs.1,41,60,693/-.”
The Board of Governors noted the recommendations of the Finance Committee on
the recommendations of the B&WC and approved as below:
The  BoG  accorded  Administrative  Approval  and  Expenditure  Sanction
(AA&ES)  amounting  to  Rs.43,59,90,710/-  out  of  IRG/Corpus  of  the
Institute  for  the  construction  of  one  Hostel  G+3  (~320  Capacity)  and
Transit accommodation (40 nos. capacity) for faculty members to meet
the urgent need.
The  BoG  accorded  Administrative  Approval  and  Expenditure  Sanction
(AA&ES)  amounting  to  Rs.1,41,60,693/-  towards  the  additional  cost
for  Running  Operations,  Maintenance  and  minor  work  of  student
hostels,    B-type  faculty  housing,  Academic  buildings  and  External
Infrastructure  i/c  internal  and  external  structure  like  tunnel,  roads,
WTP,  DWTS  and  other  services  for  Permanent  Campus  of  IIT  Jodhpur
at Karwar (Phase I & II) from 01 January 2020 to 10 May 2021.
27.3.4  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  26th  meeting  of  the
Senate held on 17 July 2021 at IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  recommendations  of  the  Senate  and  approved
27.3.5  To  consider  and  approve  the  Recruitment  and  Promotion  Rules  for  Non-
faculty positions 2021.
The  Director  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  the  agenda  item  was  placed  before
the  Finance  Committee  in  its  23rd  meeting  held  on  7  October  2021.  The  Finance
Committee recommended the following:
“After  a  detailed  discussion  on  the  distribution  of  281  non-teaching  posts  as
per  the  approved  ratio  as  presented  in  Annexure-A  of  the  RR&PR,  the  FC
noted  and  recommended  the  same  to  BoG.  Further,  the  FC  noted  the
comments  received  from  the  Additional  Secretary  (TE)  and  IFD,  MoE  and
recommended the following:
1.  IIT Jodhpur may continue with the existing RR&PR approved by the Board
as amended from to time;
2.  IIT  Jodhpur  may  adopt  RR  of  IIT  Delhi,  appropriately,  wherever
3.  As per comments of the MoE, send the RR&PR to the Ministry separately.”
27.3.6  To  consider  and  approve  the  delegation  of  financial  powers  to  various
functionaries of the Institute.
The  Director  briefed  the  BoG  that  as  per  the  Statutes  12  (2)  (xvi),  the  Director
may, with the approval of the Board delegate  any of the powers vested in him by
the  Act  and  Statutes  to  one  or  more  members  of  the  academic  or  administrative
staff  of  the  Institute.  The  Director  further  briefed  that  the  delegation  of  financial
powers  was  already  approved  by  the  BoG  earlier,  and  Institute  is  only  making
amendments  as  per  current  need.  The  Director  also  apprised  the  BoG  that  the
Ministry  of  Education  has  sent  comments  that  being  financial  matter  it  may  be
routed through the Finance Committee.
After detailed deliberations on the matter, the BoG resolved as under:
Financial  Powers  in  respect  of
of financial power for Works
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  BoG  approved
the  same  for  the  smooth  functioning  of  the
The  Finance  Committee  noted  the  comments
received from the Ministry of Education that only
the Director and Dean (R&D) may be considered
for  delegation  of  powers.  After  detailed
deliberations,  the  BoG  suggested  that  the  IIT
Jodhpur  may  adopt  the  practice  followed  by the
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Chairman,  BoG,
suggested  that  the  Institute  may  follow  the
Delegation  of  financial  powers  for  works  in  line
with IIT Delhi. Annexure-A.
The  details  are  as  per  Annexure-A,  which  is
similar to that of IIT Delhi.
27.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
27.4.1  Report on Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and resigning from
The Board noted the report on the Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and
resigning from the Institute.
27.4.2  Adoption of Circulars of MoE and Government of India
The Board approved the adoption of OM circulated by the MoE.
27.4.3  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
from last Meeting of the BoG.
The Board noted the report on the R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty members
of the Institute and appreciated the efforts made by the Faculty Members.
Institutions/organizations/companies by the Institute.
The Board noted the report of the MoUs/Agreement(s) signed by the Institute with
different Institutions/organizations/companies and appreciated the Institute.
27.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
Reports of Selection Committees of Faculty Members
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG for Selection of  11
Faculty Members, as presented in the Agenda.
(b)  Report of Standing Committee
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG,  on  the
appointment of Sh. Siddharth Srivastava as Professor of Practice
(C)  Approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  through  U.O.  Note  on
appointment /extension of appointment through Standing Committee
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG, as presented in the
Promotion /pay movement of Staff Member
The Board ratified the pay movement of Sh. Ashok Kumar Khanduri, Joint Registrar,
as presented in the Agenda.
Extension of term of Staff Member appointed through Standing Committee
The Board ratified approval of the extension of term of Audit Officer for 6 months.
Reports of Review Committee of Staff Members
The Board noted and approved the same.
(g)  Various approvals accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note.
The Board ratified various approvals accorded by the  Chairman, BoG, through U.O.
Notes on behalf of the BoG, as presented in the Agenda.
27.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
27.6.1  Status of filling up of backlog vacancies
As  per  the  comments  received  from  the  Ministry  of  Education,  the  status  of  the
filling up of backlog vacancies for non-teaching staff was presented before the BoG
No. of backlog vacancies
The BoG was also apprised that the Institute has published advertisement in the
month of April 2021 for filling up above vacancies. The recruitment for which is
The BoG noted the same.
27.6.2  Fellowship  to  provide  an  option  to  young  Ph.D.’s  (belonging  to  SC  /ST/
The Chairman, BoG, suggested the Director to explore the possibility of instituting a
Fellowship  to  provide  an  option  to  young  Ph.D.’s  (belonging  to  SC  /ST/  NCL-
OBC/EWS  categories)  to  have  rich  post-doctoral  research  and  teaching  experience
at  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  Chairman,  BoG,  requested  the  Director  to  explore  the  scheme
after consultation at the Institute level and send him the proposal for approval. The
BoG members seconded the Chairman’s suggestion.
The  Director  welcomed  the  suggestion  of  the  Chairman,  BoG,  and  said  that  the
Institute would work out the guidelines after Institute level consultation and submit
to the Chairman for kind approval.
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur