Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MINUTES OF 37th MEETING
29th June 2024 (Saturday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 37th Meeting
29th June 2024 (Saturday), 09:00 A.M.
Board Room , IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present in the 37th Meeting of the Board of Governors:
1.    Sh. A.S. Kiran Kumar, Former Chairman, ISRO
2.    Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.    Smt. Saumya Gupta, IAS
Joint Secretary (Technical Education)
Ministry of Education, Govt. of India
(Issued  Comments  vide  Letter  No.  12-
9/2018-TS-I  Department  of  Higher
Education,  Ministry  of  Education,  Govt.
of India dated 28th June 2024)
4.    Prof. Akhil Ranjan Garg
Professor, MBM University, Jodhpur
5.    Prof. Richa Singh, Deptt. of CS&E, IITJ
6.    Prof. Neeraj Jain
Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengg., IITJ
7.    Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera
Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
8.    Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar
Prof.  N.S.  Shekhawat,  Former  Professor,  JNVU,  Member,  BoG  could  not  attend  the  Meeting  due  to
personal reasons. Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain and Secretary, Govt. of Rajathan, did not attend the Meeting.
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the Agenda items:
37.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS (BoG)
Sh.  A.S.  Kiran  Kumar,  Chairman,  of  Board  of  Governors  welcomed  Prof.  Avinash
Kumar  Agarwal,  Director,  of  IIT  Jodhpur  who  was  attending  the  Meeting  of  the
Board of Governors for the first time. He appreciated the initiatives being taken by
Prof. Agarwal and extended best wishes for his fruitful tenure as the  Director,  of
Dr.  Hari  Om  Yadav,  the  Registrar  &  Secretary,  BoG  joined  welcoming  Chairman
and  Members  of  the  BoG  in  congratulating  and  welocoming  Prof.  Agarwal  to  the
first meeting of the BoG convened after the assumption of charge of the Director,
The  Chairman  further  placed  on  record  the  appreciation  for  the  efforts  of
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, former Director for the overall growth of the Institute.
Thereafter, he welcomed all Members and called the meeting to order.
37.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes of the 36th Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 28th March 2024 in the Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  of  Governors  confirmed  the  Minutes  of  36th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of
Governors, as circulated.
37.2  Presentation of the Institute Report by the Director, IIT Jodhpur
At  the  outset,  Prof.  Avinash  Kumar  Agarwal,  Director,  IIT  Jodhpur  profusely
thanked  the  Chairman,  BoG,  and  Members  for  their  warm  welcome  and  best
wishes.  The  Director  further  stated  that  he  would  like  to  adopt  a  transparent
system  of  Administration  and  streamline  various  processes  to  bring  efficiency  in
After that, he presented his vision to bring IIT Jodhpur among the country's Top
Ranked  Institutions  and  transform  it  into  a  mature  Institute  of  Technology.  He
also  stated  that  the  focus  would  be  to  enhance  the  Academic  Excellence  of  the
Institute and augment the infrastructure to the next level.
He added that immediately after joining the Institute, several rounds of meetings
were  conducted  with  the  Deans  and  Heads  of  Departments  and  Schools.  During
these  meetings,  many  new  initiatives  were  discussed.  Some  major  initiatives
have  been  included  as  separate  Agenda  items  for  discussion  in  the  present  BoG
Thereafter,  the  Director  briefly  apprised  the  BoG  on  the  key  initiatives  taken  so
far e.g. :
•  Constituted  ‘Deans  Group’  and  ‘Heads  Group’  to  roll  out  Inclusive
Governance in IIT Jodhpur;
•  Proposal  on  rationalization  of  Administrative  Structure,  including  the
creation of new Administrative Positions;
•  Comprehensive  revision  in  the  structure  of  Academic  Governance  and
Administration. The same has been approved by the Senate;
•  Proposal for the revision of the Faculty Shortlisting and Review Processes;
•  The Institute has nominated several Faculty Members to attend Leadership
Development Programmes of various IITs and IIMs;
•  The  proposal  for  revision  in  International  Mobility  Research  Grant  Policy
and Processes to the BoG for approval. The same has been recommended
by the FC;
•  MoUs are being signed with NITs to induct the best Quality Ph.D. Students
in IIT Jodhpur;
•  The proposal of Teaching B.Tech. Courses in Hindi to support the students
who are facing Language Barriers. This has been approved by the Senate;
•  Proposal to institute Endowment Student Awards and Faculty Chairs;
•  Proposal to appoint Ombudpersons for Grievance Redressal of Students;
•  Formation of a Quick Reaction Team to Effectively Handle Emergencies;
•  Reimagination  of  Chanakya  Complex  (Admin  Building)
Optimisation. The proposal has been recommended by the B&WC and FC;
•  The  B&WC  recommended  the  proposal  for  a  New  HEFA  Loan  of  Rs.  670
Crore  for  Phase-4  Development  of  the  Institute.  This  has  been  included
here for BoG approval after the recommendation of FC;
•  Creation of Green Cell to augment Flora and Fauna of the Institute; and
Interaction  Meetings  with  Local  Administrative,  Academic,  and  R&D
Organizations  were  held  to  strengthen  the  relationship  with  the  local
The BoG appreciated the Director  for taking  the above initiatives in such a short
time  of  his  joining  and  wished  all  success  for  the  implementation  of  the  new
37.2.1  Action Taken Report on the decisions taken by the Board of Governors in its
36th Meeting held on 28th March 2024 and its previous Meetings
The  BoG  was  briefed  on  the  Action  Taken  Report  and  the  BoG  suggested  the
36.3.7:  To  consider  and  approve  the  adoption  of  the  rules  pertaining  to
“Scheme  for  Compassionate  Appointment  under  Central  Government”  at
The  Board  of  Governors  suggested  issuing  an  Office  Order  of  adoption  of  the
“Scheme  for  Compassionate  Appointment  under  Central  Government”  at  IIT
The Board of Governors noted the Action Taken Report (ATR) with satisfaction.
37.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
37.3.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  32nd  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee held on 28th June 2024 in the Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The  recommendations  of  the  Finance  Committee  made  in  its  32nd  Meeting  held  on
28th  June  2024  were  presented  before  the  Board  of  Governors.  The  BoG  approved
the recommendations of the FC as under:
32.2.1:  To  consider  and  recommend  the  Annual  Accounts  for  the Financial
On  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee,  the  Board  of  Governors
approved the Annual Accounts for the Financial Year 2023-24. The BoG suggested
that  as  per  the  comments  of  the  IFD,  Ministry  of  Education,  the  reasons  for  the
hike  in  Expenditure  in  a  few  Heads  may  be  annexed  with  the  Minutes  of  the  32nd
32.2.3:  To  consider  and  recommend  the  revised  Policy  and  Guidelines  for
the  International  Mobility  Research  Grant  (IMRG)  Scheme  for
On  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee,  the  Board  of  Governors
approved the Revised Policy and Guidelines for the International Mobility Research
Grant  (IMRG)  Scheme  for  Faculty  Members  of  the  Institute.  The  BoG  further
suggested  that  a  comparison  of  existing  provisions  and  proposed  amendments
may be annexed with the Minutes of the Finance Committee.
The  BoG  also  noted  and  approved  the  Reporting,  Adopting,  and  Noting  Items  of
the Finance Committee.
37.3.2  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  38th  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on  26th June 2024 at IIT Jodhpur
The Minutes of the 38th Meeting of the Senate held on 26th June 2024 were placed
before the BoG. The Director briefed  on the following key recommendations to the
Course Curriculum for the B.Sc.-B.Ed. Program (ITEP)
The BoG noted that the Senate approved the Course Curriculum for the B.Sc.-B.Ed.
Program  (ITEP)  for  the  first  two  Semesters.  The  BoG  appreciated  the  “Jodhpur
Model  of  Teacher’s  Education”  envisioning  the  Guru-Shishya  Parampara  of
the  Indian  context  and  culture.  The  BoG  noted  that  the  Institute  is  starting  the
B.Sc.–B.Ed. Program with a Vision of holistic development of the Graduate Teachers
and  emphasizing  that  a  significant  portion  of  the  Program  content  will  be  uniquely
developed  by  the  Institute.  The  unique  Courses  being  offered  by  IIT  Jodhpur
together with the embedding of technology-enabled innovative technology-learning
process will differentiate the Jodhpur Model from similar Programmes being offered
by the other Institutes / Universities in the Country.
Proposal  for  Direct  Admission  to  Ph.D.  Programme  for  Graduating  B.Tech.
Students of NITs
The BoG noted that the Senate approved the proposal for Direct Admission to Ph.D.
Programme  for  Graduating  B.Tech.  Students  of  NITs.  The  BoG  was  briefed  that
Students  having  a  CGPA  of  8.0  or  above  and  in  the  top  10  Ranks  in  their  Classes
after the 7th Semester will be offered provisional admission to Ph.D. Program as an
early  entry  without  any  need  to  appear  and  qualify  GATE  or  any  other  written
examination. The selection can be completed by a quick  online/in-person interview
or direct admission offers can be made. To attract only serious students, they need
to  pay  an  application  fee  of  ₹5000/-  which  would  be  adjusted  in  the  academic  fee
The BoG appreciated the proposal for boosting the research ecosystem by attracting
the best Students of NITs to join Ph.D. Programs of the Institute.
Proposal  for  a  Revised  Academic  Structure  and  Creation  of  the  Sub-
Committees of the Senate
It was briefed to the BoG that the Senate approved the Revised Academic Structure
and the creation of Sub-Committees of the Senate. The BoG was apprised that the
Academic  Structure  would  have  two  tracks,  namely  the  Administrative  Track  and
the Academic Track. The Academic Track would have the following Sub-Committees
of the Senate:
1. Senate Undergraduate Committee (SUGC);
2. Senate Postgraduate Committee (SPGC); and
3. Senate Online Education Committee (SOEC).
The proposed Sub-Committees of the Senate will align with the respective sections
of the Office of Academics, with administrative operations overseen by the Dean of
Academic Affairs (DoAA), while the Chairpersons of the SUGC, SPGC, and SOEC will
manage  the  academic  track  to  coordinate  Senate  activities  and  make  academic
policies.  These  Sub-committees  of  the  Senate,  would  effectively  streamline  the
activities of Undergraduate, Postgraduate and Online Education Programs and make
appropriate  policies.  The  implementation  of  these  policies  will  be  done  by
The  BoG  appreciated  the  initiative  of  the  Senate  and  approved  the  following
Academic Structure :
Proposal for an amendment in the Attendance Policy of the Institute
for the Students
The  BoG  noted  the  Senate  approved  the  Attendance  Policy  of  the  Institute
considering  the  teaching-learning  process  as  an  integral  part  of  an  IIT.  Under  the
Policy,  a  Student  is  expected  to  have  full  attendance  in  each  Course  unless  a
student  takes  a  leave  of  absence  for  valid  medical  or  bonafide  reason(s).  In  any
case, the attendance of a student should not fall below 75% in a Course.
The  BoG  suggested  that  after  implementation  of  the  new  Attendance  Policy,  the
Instiute  may  compare  the  impact  by  comparing  the  new  System  on  various
parameters with the existing Attendance Policy after a year.
Proposal for teaching B.Tech. Courses in Hindi Language
The  BoG noted that the Senate, in line with the  NEP-2020, approved  that all first-
year  courses  be  taught  in  Bilingual  (both  Hindi  and  English)  Mode  in  two  different
sections.  This  would  enhance  students'  comprehension  and  interaction  with  the
environment. The first-year courses would be taught for English and Hindi Sections
by the same Instructor to ensure the same rigor in the teaching-learning processes.
All evaluation would also be identical.
The  BoG  appreciated  the  new  initiative  taken  by  the  Senate  to  help  the  First  Year
Students who might be facing language barrier.
Proposal  regarding  increasing  the  efficiency  in  organizing  Senate
The  BoG  noted  that  the  Senate  approved  organizing  the  Senate  meetings  in  two
parts for enhancing the efficiency and enabling focused discussion toward important
academic  matters.   In  the  first  part  of  the  Senate  meeting,  on  the  first  day,  an
online portal shall be opened for Senators for their comments / observations on all
agenda items. Most routine items having by and large consensus would be disposed
of  and  Chairman,  Senate  would  give  final  ruling  on  those  items.  The  Chairman,
Senate based on the comments provided by the Senators would approve the list of
agenda  items  for  discussion  in  the  physical  meeting  on  the  next  day.  This  would
ensure  that  most  routine  Agenda  Items  having  largely  consensus  opinion  are
disposed of efficiently in online mode.
The BoG noted and appreciated the initiative of the Senate.
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  and  approved  all  the  recommendations  of
the Senate made in its 38th Meeting held on 26th June, 2024.
37.3.3  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  33rd  Meeting  of  the
Building  &  Works  Committee  (B&WC)  held  on  24th  June  2024  at  IIT
The BoG was briefed that the recommendations of the Building & Works Committee
(B&WC)  made  in  its  33rd  Meeting  held  on  24th  June  2024  were  placed  before  the
Finance  Committee  in  its  32nd  Meeting  held  on  28th  June  2024.  The  Finance
Committee considered and recommended the following to the BoG for its approval:
1.  Proposal  for  Phase  4  Development  work  of  IIT  Jodhpur  through  HEFA
Loan of Rs. 670 Cr;
2.  Payment for the work of “Construction of 01 Hostel Building (G+3) of 320
capacity and Transit Accommodation for 48 Faculties (Y-4 Hostel)”;
3.  Additional work  of providing and fixing Aluminum Louvers in shaft in the
work  of  “Construction  of  Type  B(-)  Housing  -6  Blocks  (G+3)  including
allied services at IIT Jodhpur; and
4.  Re-imagining  the  optimum  utilization  of  the  internal  space  of  the
Chanakya Complex and other Buildings at IIT Jodhpur.
It was further briefed to the BoG that the Institute has to plan for expansion of the
Infrastructure  considering  the  continuous  growth  of  the  Institute  for  the  next  5
years  by  proposing  to  submit  a  Proposal  for  Phase  4  Development  Work  of  IIT
Jodhpur through HEFA Loan of  ₹670 Cr. to HEFA and MoE for consideration.
The  BoG  was  also  apprised  that  presently,  the  space  in  the  Chanakya  Complex
(Admin Building) has not been optimally utilized and Offices are facing acute space
constraints.  The  matter  was  initially  discussed  in  the  Deans  Group  Meetings  and  it
was  discussed  to  re-imagine  the  optimum  utilization  of  the  internal  spaces  of  the
Admin  Building  without  major  Structural  changes.  Subsequently,  the  proposal  was
discussed  in  the  B&WC  meeting  and  it  was  recommended  by  the  B&WC  to  the  FC
and BoG for approval.
After detailed deliberations and on the recommendation of the Finance Committee,
the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  B&WC  made  in  its
33rd Meeting held on 24th June 2024.
37.3.4  To  consider  and  approve  extension  of  the  provision  of  appointments
through Standing Committee and modification in its constitution
After detailed deliberations, the Board of Governors approved the extension of the
provision of the Standing Committee for 5  Years w.e.f. June 01, 2024, to cater to
the needs of the Institute.
The BoG also approved the following constitution of the Standing Committee:
1.   Director, IIT Jodhpur or his nominee
2.   Deputy Director / One of the Deans
(To be nominated by the Director)
3.   Two Experts
(To  be  nominated  by  the  Director  from
the  panel  of  experts  approved  by  the
Board of Governors)
To  consider  and  approve  the  re-structuring  of  the  Administration  by
appointment of various Deans / Associate Deans / other Functionaries for
smooth and efficient functioning of the Institute
The  BoG  was  apprised  that  considering  the  needs  of  the  Institute,  the
re-structuring  of  the  Administration  by  appointment  of  various  Deans  /  Associate
Deans  /  other  Functionaries  for  smooth  and  efficient  functioning  of  the  Institute
has been proposed.
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Board  of  Govenors  approved  the  creation  /
renaming  of  various  Deans  /  Associate  Dean  /  Professor-in-Charge  positions  to
assist  the  Director  for  smooth  functioning  of  the  Institute  and  for  increasing
The revised Adminstrative Structure is enclosed as Annexure-I.
To consider and approve formation of Advisory Committees for suggesting
various policies to the Deans
The BoG was briefed that on approval of the proposed re-structuring and in order to
further  strengthen  various  Offices  of  the  Deans,  the  Institute  is  proposing  to
constitute the various Advisory Committees to deliberate policy matters and submit
recommendations to the respective Deans.
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  BoG  suggested  that  in  the  constitution  of  the
respective  Committees  “One  Faculty  Member  from  each  Department  and
School”  may  be  replaced  with  “One  Faculty  Member  from  each  Department
and  School  to  be  nominated  by  the  Head”  and  approved  the  formation  of  the
To  consider  and  approve  the  revised  process  for  the  Selection  and
Assessment of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur
The Board of Governors was briefed that the BoG in its 19th and 20th Meetings held
on  25th  March  2019  and  11th  June  2019  respectively,  approved  the  Norms  for  the
Selection and Assessment of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur. Since the Norms were
approved in the year 2019, the Institute has now formulated the revised process for
the  Selection  and  Assessment  of  Faculty  Members  of  IIT  Jodhpur  to  smoothen  the
process(es) of Faculty Recruitment and Assessment.
Professor-in-Charge  (Faculty  Affairs)  presented  revised  process  for  the  Selection
and  Assessment  of  Faculty  Members  of  IIT  Jodhpur  with  detailed  comparison  of
existing provisions and revised policy before the Board of Governors.
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  revised  process
for the Selection and Assessment of Faculty Members of IIT Jodhpur.
To  consider  and  approve  process  for  Secondary  Affiliation  of  Regular
Faculty with Multiple Departments / Centers / Schools
The BoG  was apprised  that considering the present needs of interdisciplinary and
multidisciplinary  approach  of  imparting  Teaching,  to  conduct  Research  &
Development not  only individually but also in the  collaborative mode  and beyond
the traditional boundaries of Academics, a Faculty Member at the Institute may be
affiliated jointly (Joint Faculty and Affiliate Faculty) in two Departments / Schools /
Centers  in  addition  to  his  /  her  parent  Departments  /  Schools  for  his  /  her
overlapping research interests.
Professor-in-Charge  (Faculty  Affairs)  presented  process  for  Secondary  Affiliation  of
Regular Faculty with  Multiple Departments / Centers / Schools  before the Board  of
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  process  for
Secondary  Affiliation  of  Regular  Faculty  with  Multiple  Departments  /  Centers  /
To consider and recommend the revised process for the appointment of the
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  comments  received  from  the  Ministry  of
Education  on  the  Agenda  item  that  “the  proposed  action  is  not  in  line  with
extant  provisions  of  IIT  Jodhpur  Statutes,  therefore  the  proposal  is  not
The Director briefed the BoG that as per the Statutes, there is a requirement of one
Expert to be nominated by the Visitor (Hon’ble President  of India) in the Selection
Committee  for  the  appointment  of  the  Deputy  Director.  Many  times,  the
appointment  of  the  Deputy  Director  takes  considerable  time  due  to  delays  in  the
nomination of the Visitor’s Nominee from the MoE, GoI.
Therefore, IIT Jodhpur is proposing to amend the Statute 17 (5) (Appointments
and procedures for appointment) as per below:
Selection Committee as per the
(i)  Chairman – Director
(ii) Member  -  One  Expert  nominated  by
(iii) Members  –  Three  from  the  Panel  of
Experts  approved  by  the  Board  of
Proposed Amendment in the
(i)  Chairman     – Director
the  Board  of
Considering  the  difficulty  being  faced  by  the  Institute,  the  Board  of  Governors
recommended  that  the  Insitute  may  write  to  the  Ministry  of  Education,  Govt.  of
India to amend the relevant Clause of the Statutes and take assent from the Visitor
(Hon’ble President of India).
37.3.11  To  consider  and  approve  minor  amendments  in  the  guidelines  to  engage
Scholar-in-Residence and Part-time Advisor(s)
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  following  minor  amendments  in  the
guidelines to engage Scholar-in-Residence and Part-time Advisor(s):
Tenure: 03 to 10 days at a time
Tenure:  One  year  to  a  maximum  of  Three
years at a time.
Spend 03 to a maximum of 10 days in a year.
₹15,000/- per day
Remuneration: ₹5,000/- to ₹10,000/- per day
Tenure:  Maximum  of  8  days  in  a
Tenure:  One  year  to  a  maximum  of  Five  years
with annual renewal.
Spend a maximum of 8 days in a month
The  remaining  guidelines  on  eligibility,  appointment  procedure  and  other  benefits
shall remain unchanged as approved by the BoG earlier.
37.3.12  To consider and approve the appointment of Student Ombudsperson(s)
It  was  briefed  to  the  BoG  that  the  Institute  is  committed  to  maintaining  a  safe
campus  environment  while  ensuring  that  the  Wellbeing  of  the  Students  is  well
protected.  The  Institute  is  also  for  fostering  &  nurturing  inclusivity  inside  the
campus and a supportive environment for the academic and personal growth of the
Students, being the primary stakeholders of the Institute.
The BoG was further apprised that many IITs such as IIT Madras, IIT Roorkee, IIT
Gandhinagar,  have  appointed  Student  Ombudspersons  for  the  redressal  of
grievances of students. IIT Jodhpur is also willing to further strengthen the existing
Well-being mechanism for the Students by appointing Student Ombudsperson(s).
The  BoG  appreciated  the  initiative  and  approved  the  proposal.  The  BoG  further
authorized the Director to identify and appoint suitable person(s) of such stature as
Student Ombudspersons up to a maximum of three. The BoG also approved that a
token  Honorarium  of  ₹5,000/-  per  visit  could  be  provided,  if  the  Ombudsperson  is
from outside IIT Jodhpur. The term of each Ombudsperson would be one year at a
time and can be renewed any number of times, depending on their performance.
37.3.13  To review the provision of Young Faculty Associates (YFA)
It was apprised to the BoG that the Board of Governors in the year 2019 approved
the  policy  for  the  appointment  of  Young  Faculty  Associates  (YFA)  for  Graduating
Ph.D.  Students  who  have  submitted  his  /  her  Thesis,  satisfying  the  minimum
criteria  for  shortlisting  for  the  post  of  Assistant  Professor  and  having  at  least  2
Research Papers published in reputed Journals.
The  Board  of  Governors  was  further  briefed  that  the  BoG  had  approved  the
provision of YFA owing to the shortage of Faculty Members at that time to support
various  Academic  Programs  of  the  Institute.  The  Institute  has  now  grown
significantly  and  has  sufficient  Faculty  Members  to  support  the  Academic
requirements  of  the  Institute.  Therefore,  it  is  proposed  to  review  the  need  for  the
provision  of  Young  Faculty  Associates  (YFA)  as  a  good  number  of  regular  Faculty
Members are in position.
Considering the above, the BoG approved to discontinuation of the provision of the
Young  Faculty  Associate  (YFA).  The  BoG  further  approved  that  the  existing  YFA
should be allowed to continue its present term.
37.3.14  To  consider  and  approve  the  proposal  for  setting  up  Endowed  Awards  for
The BoG was briefed on the proposal for setting up of Endowed Awards for Student
Excellence  as  presented  in  the  Agenda.  The  endowments  may  be  invited  from  the
Alumni,  Well-wishers,  Friends,  and  Faculty  Members  of  the  Institute  to  set  up
Annual Cash Awards and Medals to honor Student excellence in various domains.
The  Awards  shall  be  given  to  Students  during  the  Institute  Convocation  or  other
award  excellence  ceremonies  to  instill  motivation  and  enthusiasm  to  excel  in  their
professional endeavors or to provide financial assistance to needy Students.
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  initiative  and  approved  the  proposal  for
setting up Endowed Awards for Student Excellence.
37.3.15  To consider and approve the guidelines for setting up an Endowed Faculty
Chair / Endowed Young Faculty Fellowship at IIT Jodhpur
The  BoG  was  briefed  that  the  Board  of  Governors  in  its  29th  Meeting  held  on  17th
June 2022 approved the guidelines for appointment of Chair Professor. It needs to
be revised to ensure that talented Academicians within the Ecosystem progress into
Academic  and  Technology  Leadership  roles  with  a  higher  motivation  and  desired
Therefore,  the  Institute  has  formulated  detailed  guidelines  for  setting  up  Endowed
Faculty Chairs / Endowed Young Faculty Fellowships at IIT Jodhpur to seek financial
support  from  generous  donors  or  well-wishers  of  the  Institute,  Esteemed  Alumni,
Corporate  Entities  and  Government  Agencies.  The  Chairs  and  Fellowships  set
through  such  generous  endowments  will  help  IITJ  in  honoring  outstanding  Faculty
Members  by  providing  support  and  resources  required  to  achieve  goals  as
researchers and educators. It was briefed to the BoG that this proposal supersedes
the earlier BoG-approved guidelines in this regard.
The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  the  initiative  and  approved  the  guidelines  for
setting  up  Endowed  Faculty  Chairs  /  Endowed  Young  Faculty  Fellowships  at  IIT
37.3.16  To consider and approve the policy for the “Research Excellence Award” of
The  BoG  was  briefed  that  the  Institute  has  formulated  a  Policy  for  instituting  the
“Research Excellence Award” of IIT Jodhpur to encourage the  Faculty Members
for  excellence  in  Research  and  Publications.  The  BoG  was  briefed  on  the  following
1.  This  Award  shall  be  decided  by  a  Selection  Committee  constituted  by  the
2.  The Award recognizes and honors Faculty Members who, through their work
at IIT Jodhpur, have achieved excellence in Research, as demonstrated by a
high-impact  publication,  showing  technology  development  published  in  the
Calendar Year under consideration.
3.  Nominations  /  Self-Nominations  shall  be  invited  for  this  Award  from  the
current  Faculty  Members  of  IIT  Jodhpur.  The  nomination  should  include  a
brief description of the work, its impact, and justification, along with a copy
of the publication for which the nomination is made.
4.  The  publication  must  appear  in  the  Journal  in  the  Calendar  Year  under
consideration  for  the  Award.  An  Individual  is  welcome  to  nominate  one  or
more colleagues for this Award or Self-Nominate herself/himself.
5.  The  period  under  consideration  will  be  the  Calendar  Year.  The  last  date  of
nomination would be 31st March of the next year. The Award will be given on
the Institute’s Foundation Day.
6.  The Award shall consist of a Silver Plaque and a Citation. The expenditure
for  this  Award  shall  be  made  from  the  endowment.  In  the  absence  of
endowment, the R&D Overhead fund may be utilized.
7.  The number of such Awards in a year can be decided by the Institute as per
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  BoG  approved  the  policy  for  the  “Research
Excellence Award” of IIT Jodhpur.
37.3.17  To consider and approve the policy for the “Teaching Excellence Award” of
IIT Jodhpur for the Faculty Members
The  BoG  was  briefed  that  the  Institute  has  formulated  a  Policy  for  instituting  the
“Teaching  Excellence  Award”  of  IIT  Jodhpur  for  the  Faculty  Members.  The  Aim
of instituting the Award is to recognize Faculty Member(s) who consistently exhibit
exceptional  teaching  practices,  significantly  contribute  to  student
outcomes,  and  inspire  excellence  by  serving  as  role  models  within  the  IITJ
The BoG was briefed about the following guidelines:
1.  Students  and  Alumni  will  be  invited  to  nominate  a  Faculty  Member  for  this
Award  who  has  positively  impacted  their  life.  The  nomination  could  be  on  the
➢  Engagement  and  Interaction:  Showing  proactive  engagement  with  the
students within and beyond the classical boundaries of a classroom, creating
an interactive and participatory learning environment;
➢  Support and Mentorship: Offering assistance, guidance, and mentorship to
students,  helping  them  navigate  challenges  and  reach  their  academic  goals
➢  Innovative  Teaching  Methods:  Utilizing
approaches  to  teaching  that  enhance  student  learning,  foster  critical
thinking, and accommodate diverse learning styles; and
➢  Passion  and  Dedication:  Demonstrates  sincere  enthusiasm  for  teaching
and  the  subject  matter,  inspiring  students  through  their  dedication  and
commitment to going beyond the call of duty.
2.  The last date of nomination would be 31st March of the next year. The Award will
be given on Teacher’s Day, i.e. 5th September every year.
3.  The Award shall consist of a Silver Plaque and a Citation. The expenditure for
this  Award  shall  be  made  from  the  endowment.  In  the  absence  of  an
endowment, an Institute Fund may be utilized.
4.  A duly constituted Committee by the Director will select Faculty Members for the
proposed Award based on the nominations received from the Students.
5.  The  number  of  such  Awards  in  a  year  can  be  decided  by  the  Institute  as  per
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  BoG  approved  the  policy  for  the  Teaching
Excellence Award of IIT Jodhpur.
37.3.18  To  consider  and  approve  the  Panel  of  Experts  for  the  selection  of  Non-
Faculty positions, in addition to the existing panel
The BoG approved the Panel of Experts for the selection of Non-Faculty positions, in
addition to the existing Panel.
37.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING, AND NOTING ITEMS
37.4.1  Report on the implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 at IIT
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  report  on  the  implementation  of  the  National
Education Policy - 2020 at IIT Jodhpur as presented in the Agenda.
37.4.2  Report on the status of filling-up of Backlog vacancies
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  report  on  the  status  of  the  filling-up  of  Backlog
vacancies as presented in the Agenda. The BoG requested the Director to expedite
the Recruitment Process for both Faculty and Non-Faculty Positions.
37.4.3  Report  on  the  joining  and  resigning  of  the  Faculty  Members  and  Staff
Members of the Institute
The Board of Governors noted the report on the joining and resigning of the Faculty
Members and Staff Members of the Institute.
37.4.4  Adoption  of  Circulars/  Orders/  O.Ms.  of  the  Ministry  of  Education,
Government of India
The Board approved the adoption of the O.M. as presented in the Agenda.
37.4.5  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
since the last meeting of the BoG
The Board noted the Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty  Members of
the Institute since the last meeting of the BoG.
37.4.6  Report  of  MoUs/Agreement(s)  signed  with  different  Institutions  /
organizations / companies by the Institute
The Board noted the Report of MoUs/Agreement(s) signed with different Institutions
/ Organizations / Companies by the Institute.
37.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
37.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note on extension /
appointment through Standing Committees
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG as presented in the
Reports of Selection Committee of Staff Members
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG as presented in the
Reports of Standing Committees of Staff Members
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG as presented in the
Reports  of  the  Performance  Review  Committee  Meeting  of  newly  joined
Staff Members (Group B & C) placed under probation & Approvals accorded
by the Director:
The Board noted  and approved reports of the Review Committees, as presented in
37.6  Presentation  by  the  2  Faculty  Members  on  their  research  work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
As  per  the  decision  of  the  BoG  taken  in  its  24th  Meeting  held  on  5.12.2020,  the
following  2  Faculty  Members  of  the  Institute  made  presentations  before  the  BoG
about their research work:
1.  Prof.  Prodyut  Ranjan  Chakraborty,  Department  of  Mechnaical
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur presented the concepts and operational framework
of  the  Jodhpur  Hydrogen  Valley  Innovation  Cluster  (JHVIC)  at  IIT  Jodhpur.
He  informed  that  the  Hydrogen  Valley  is  proposed  to  be  established  at  IIT
Jodhpur in collaboration with prominent academic partners (IIT Delhi, BARC-
Mumbai,  IIT  Gandhinagar,  IIT  Bhubaneswar,  MNIT  Jaipur,  BITS  Pilani,  and
Manipal  University  Jaipur)  and  industry  partners  (NTPC,  Waaree  Energies
Ltd.,  Ashok  Leyland,  AG&P  Pratham,  Schneider  Electric,  Indraprastha  Gas
Ltd.,  Inch  Enviro  Technologies  Pvt.  Ltd.,  and  Technip  Energies),  as  well  as
government  and  non-government  agencies  (Government  of  Rajasthan,
Council  on  Energy,  Environment  and  Water  (CEEW),  and  Jodhpur  and
Marudhara Industries Associations). A Section 8 Company and its governing
body will support the overall operation of the Hydrogen Valley.
Prof. Prodyut further highlighted that the primary goal of establishing JHVIC
is  to  address  the  entire  value  chain  of  Hydrogen  (production,  storage,
transportation,  end-use,  and  marketing)  through  technological  innovation
and an integrated systems approach. This will be achieved through industrial
deployment  at  a  small  scale,  leading  to  the  commercial  viability  of  Green
Hydrogen  Technology  in  both  Indian  and  Global  contexts.  Some  of  the
envisioned  innovations  include  the  development  of  an  indigenous  Alkaline
Water  Electrolyzer  (AWE),  the  use  of  grey  water  for  the  electrolyzer,  novel
power electronics topology, skid-mounted small ammonia plants, small-scale
biomass-to-hydrogen production, hydrogen fuel cells, and the establishment
of world-class testing facilities.
The  Chairman,  BoG  suggested  that  a  comprehensive  plan  be  developed  to
evaluate  the  merits  and  demerits  of  the  proposed  AWE  compared  to
commercially  available  alternatives.  Additionally,  the  Chairman  suggested
that  the  scope  of  the  facility  should  remain  open  to  accommodate  future
identifying  niche  areas  relevant  to  Green  Hydrogen
2.  Dr.  Rachel  Philip,  Assistant  Professor,  School  of  Liberal  Arts presented the
work  being  done  to  develop  a  'Jodhpur  Model  of  Teacher  Education'
through  the  new  B.Sc.-B.Ed.  (Secondary  Stage)  Program. Commencing  from
AY  2024-2025,  IITJ's  B.Sc.-B.Ed.  Program  will  follow  the  guidelines  of  the
Integrated  Teacher  Education  Program  (ITEP),  recommended  by  the  National
Council of Teacher Education (NCTE). Students can major in Maths, Physics or
Chemistry in addition to B.Ed. for the Secondary Stage. Dr. Rachel presented
the  unique  features  of  the  'Jodhpur  Model'  which  gives  students  the
opportunity  to  acquire  holistic  technological,  pedagogical  and  disciplinary
content  knowledge  along  with  a  strong  ethical  foundation  and  diverse
opportunities  for  school  exposure.  The  pedagogy  and  curriculum  philosophy
program  draws  on  and  reinterprets  the Guru-Shishya  Parampara  for
modern school education.
The Chairman, BoG enquired about the contemporary best practices on which
the  IITJ's  Program  is  based.  He  also  queried  about  the  role  that  IITJ  would
play  in  the  selection  of  students  into  the  Program.  It  was  clarified  that  the
main  selection  criteria  would  be  the  student's  rank  in  the  National  Common
Entrance  Test  (NCET)  conducted  by  NCTE,  provided  they  satisfy  other basic
The  Chairman,  BoG,  and  Members  appreciated  the  presentations  made  by
both the Faculty Members.
37.7  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
37.7.1  Matter of SME, IITJ functioning in the Project Mode
It was briefed to the Board of Governors that presently the School of Management
&  Entrepreneurship  (SME),  IIT  Jodhpur  is  functioning  in  the  Project  Mode  which  is
causing  administrative  difficulty  and  disparity  among  all  Academic  Units  of  the
Institute. It was submitted to the BoG that if approved, the SME may also function
like  any  other  Academic  Unit  of  the  Institute  to  keep  the  parity.  The  existing
operating model of SME in the Project Mode through the Office of R&D, IITJ shall be
reviewed and aligned as being followed for other Academic Units.
After detailed deliberations, the Board  of Governors approved  that the SME  should
function like any other Academic Unit of the Institute to keep the parity.
After the conclusion of the Meeting  of  the  BoG,  the  Registrar & Secretary, BoG thanked the  Chairman,
BoG, the Director, and the Members for their invaluable time and critical input.
Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur
New Administrative Structure
1.  Dean of Faculty Affairs (DOFA)
2.  Dean of Students Affairs (DOSA)
3.  Dean of Academic Affairs (DOAA)
4.  Dean of International Relations (DOIR)
5.  Dean of Research and Development (DORD)
6.  Dean of Infrastructure Planning (DOIP)
7.  Dean of Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DDIA)
8.  Dean of Resources & Alumni (DORA)
9.  Dean of Administration (DOAD)
Associate Deans (15)
1.  Associate Dean, Faculty Affairs   (ADFA)
2.  Associate Dean, Students Affairs (ADSA)
3.  Associate Dean, Hostel Affairs  (ADHA)
4.  Associate Dean, Awards & Scholarships  (ADAS)
5.  Associate Dean, Academic Affairs (ADAA)
6.  Associate Dean, Executive Education (ADEE)
7.  Associate Dean, International Connect (ADIC)
8.  Associate Dean, Research and Development (ADRD)
9.  Associate Dean, Civil Infrastructure (ADCI)
10. Associate Dean, Electrical Infrastructure (ADEI)
11. Associate Dean, Airconditioning & Other Services (ADAO)
12. Associate Dean, Computer Center (ADCC)
13. Associate Dean, Network and Cybersecurity (ADNC)
14. Associate Dean, Alumni Relations (ADAR)
15. Associate Dean, Corporate Relations (ADCR)
Professor In-charge (PICs) (10)
1. PIC, Training & Placement [PIC (TP)]
2. PIC, Center for Continuing Education [PIC (CCE)]
3. PIC, Vocational Training and Upskilling [PIC (VTU)]
4. PIC, Campus Security & Transport [PIC (CST)]
5. PIC, Visitors Hostel and Allied Services [PIC (VH)]
6. PIC, Research Park [PIC (RP)]
7. PIC, Innovation & Incubation [PIC (II)]
8. PIC, Companies Oversight [PIC (S8)]
9. PIC, IITJ Connect [PIC (IIC)]
10.PIC, Green Cell [PIC (GC)]