Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MINUTES OF 36th MEETING
28th March, 2024 (Thursday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 36th Meeting
28th March, 2024 (Thursday), 11:30 A.M.
Board Room , IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present in the 36th Meeting of the Board of Governors:
1.    Sh. A.S. Kiran Kumar, Former Chairman, ISRO
2.    Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
3.    Prof. Narpat S. Shekhawat, Formerly JNVU, Jodhpur
4.    Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, MBM University, Jodhpur
5.    Prof. Richa Singh, Deptt. of CS&E, IITJ
6.    Prof. Neeraj Jain, Deptt. of Bioscience & Bioengg., IITJ
7.    Dr.  H.S.  Mewara,  Joint  Secretary,  Technical  Education,  Govt.
of Rajasthan (Nominee of Govt. of Rajasthan)
8.    Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Deputy Director, IIT Jodhpur
9.    Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Administration), IIT Jodhpur
10.   Dr. Hari Om Yadav, Registrar
Sh. Govind Jaiswal, IAS, Joint Secretary (TEL), Ministry of Education, Govt. of India could not attend the
Meeting  due  to  prior  engagement.  Sh.  Anil  Bhavarlal  Jain,  Member  of  the  BoG  did  not  attend  the
The following are the decisions of the BoG on the Agenda items:
36.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF GOVERNORS (BoG)
The  Chairman,  BoG  welcomed  all  the  Members  and  Special  Invitees  to  the
36th Meeting and called the meeting in order.
36.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes of:
(i)  35th  Meeting  of  the  Board  of  Governors  held  on  2nd  December,  2023  in  the
Senate Room, IIT Jodhpur
(ii) 13th Special Meeting of  the Board  of Governors held  on 25th February, 2024
in the Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The Board of Governors confirmed the Minutes of 35th Meeting and the 13th Special
Meeting of the Board of Governors, as circulated.
36.1.2  Presentation  by  the  2  Faculty  Members  on  their  research  work
/accomplishments before the BoG.
As  per  the  decision  of  the  BoG  taken  in  its  24th  Meeting  held  on  5.12.2020,  the
following 2 Faculty Members  of the Institute  made presentations before the BoG
about their research work:
1.  Prof.  Shree  Prakash  Tiwari,  Department  of  Electrical  Engineering,  IIT
Jodhpur,  presented the  summary  of  his  research  work  carried  out  on  the
flexible and sustainable electronics by Flexible Large Area Microelectronics
(FLAME) led by him during the last 13 years at IIT Jodhpur.  He  informed
how E-waste is becoming a challenge for mankind and how R&D activities
on  biodegradable  electronics  can  help  in  reducing  its  negative  impact  on
the  environment.  An  approach  to  design  useful  eco-friendly  flexible
electronic systems was presented with individual devices being developed
with natural material ingredients.  He  opined  on  how multi-functionality of
electronic  devices  can  help  in  inducing  smartness  at  lower  costs.  It  was
highlighted that use of synaptic behaviour of fabricated transistors can be
utilized  to  mimic  a  human  synapse,  which  can  eventually  be  helpful  for
ultra-low  power  computing  in  the  future.  Heterogeneous  integration  of
flexible  and  rigid  technologies  was  suggested  as  the  best  way  for  system
development  in  the  areas  of  real  time  health  /  environment  monitoring
The  BoG  lauded  the  efforts  of  Prof.  Tiwari  towards  development  of
technologies  for  biodegradable  electronics  and  for  publishing  a  good
number of research papers in high impact journals. The BoG suggested to
protect  the  outcomes  of  the  work  through  IPs  at  various  stages  for  a
quantitative  analysis  of  biodegradability  and  other  aspects  of  developed
technologies  to  highlight  the  impacts  for  industry  adaptation.  Upcoming
facility for flexible electronics, especially an advanced material printer was
also discussed. Finally, Prof. Tiwari’s immense efforts in outreach activities
on  semiconductor  technology  and  edible  /  ingestible  electronics  across
were appreciated by all the members.
2.  Dr.  Angshuman  Paul, Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Computer
Science  &  Engineering,  IIT  Jodhpur presented the  work  about  the  recent
research  collaboration  with  Society  for  Applied  Microwave  Electronics
Engineering  &  Research  (SAMEER),  Mumbai  [Ministry  of  Electronics  &
Information  Technology  (MeitY),  GoI]  on  MRI.  He  mentioned  that  a  team
of  researchers  from  IITJ  and  SAMEER  has  recently  submitted  a
research proposal  to  MeitY  on  the  translation  of  low field  strength  MRI
images to high field strength MRI images.
The Chairman, BoG appreciated the effort and suggested that IITJ should
also  focus  on  collaborating  to  improve  various  other  aspects  of  MRI
scanner  of  SAMEER  and  be  a  part  of  the  effort  to  build  high  quality
indigenous  MRI  Scanners with  SAMEER.  The  Director  suggested  that
improving the various aspects of MRI should be added as a major research
area  in  the  Med.-Tech.  Program  of  IITJ.  This  suggestion  was  appreciated
by the Chairman BoG.
The  Chairman,  BoG,  and  Members  appreciated  the  presentations  made  by  both
the Faculty Members.
36.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The  Director  presented  the  Institute  Report  on  various  activities  and  new
initiatives  that  happened  after  the  last  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Governors  as
1.  Presently,  the  Institute
A.Y.  2023-24.  The  Director  apprised  BoG  on  the  following  New  Academic
is  offering  91  Academic  Programmes
Increase  in  the  total  intake  in  B.Tech.  Programs  from  490  to  540
(an increase of 50 Seats);
•  Starting  B.Sc.-B.Ed.  Integrated  Teachers  Education  Program  (ITEP)
Program  from  A.Y.  2024-25  in  line  with  NEP-2020  initially  with  50
•  Establishing  a  Joint  Center  of  Law  and  Technology  with  National  Law
University  Jodhpur  (NLUJ)  for  Joint  Masters  Program  in  Law  and
Technology  of  minimum  duration  of  2-Years  from  Semester-I,  A.Y.
2024-25  in  Regular,  Part-time,  and  Hybrid  Modes  with  a  maximum  of
10 seats initially;
•  Starting  a  M.S.(Res.)  and  M.S.(Res.)-Ph.D.  Program  in  Astronomy  and
Astrophysics  in  collaboration  with  Aryabhatta  Research  Institute  of
Observational Sciences (ARIES), Nainital;
•  Starting an unique stackable Program in Applied AI and Data Science in
collaboration with an External Partner; and
•  Ph.D. Program in Design through recently established School of Design
at IIT Jodhpur.
2.  The  Director  informed  about  the  current  student  strength  of  IIT  Jodhpur
which has reached 4758, and out of which 820 are the Ph.D. Students - a
good sign for Research Ecosystem of the Institute. The Institute is aiming to
have 1000 Ph.D. Scholars in coming years. The Director further added that
the Institute is trying to maintain a ratio of 60:40 for UG and PG Students.
The Institute is also aiming to reach the student strength to 7000 in the next
4~5 Years and thereafter to 10000 in the next 10 years.
3. The current Faculty and Non-Faculty Strengths are 267 (excluding PDFs and
offered  positions)  and  228  respectively.  The  Director  informed  that  during
the  Finance  Committee  meeting  held  on  27th  March,  2024,  it  was
recommended  that  the  Institute  should  work  out  to  build  Post
Doctoral Fellows (PDFs) Cadre.
The  Members  appreciated  the  suggestion  of  the  Finance  Committee
and requested the Director to work in that direction.
2.  The present Fund position, Status of HEFA Loans, other Financial parameters
and expected deficit were discussed in the Finance Committee in its Meeting
held on 27th March, 2024.
The  Board  of  Governors  requested  the  Director  to  brief  about  the
position of Internal Resources of the Institute to meet out the deficit
due to shrinking Grant-in-Aid support from the Ministry of Education
(GoI) in comparison of actual expenditure. The Director briefed that
the  Institute  has  already  requested  the  MoE  to  provide  /sanction
additional  grant.  In  case  the  additional  grant  is  not  sanctioned
during  the  current  FY,  then  the  Institute  may  have  to  pay  from  the
The  Board  noted  the  same  and  asked  the  Institute  to  request  the
Ministry  of  Education  to  sanction  additional  Grant-in-Aid  as  per  the
requirement  of  the  Institute,  especially
3.  While  presenting  the  progress  of  securing  Research  &  Development  (R&D)
projects and funds, it was informed that 157 Projects and grant of ₹44.34
Crores have already been sanctioned / received as on 18th March, 2024. IITJ
is expecting further increase in this before / by 31.3.2024 itself.
4.  The Placement Statistics were also presented to the BoG as under:
•  Over  220+  organizations  (Private  &  Govt.  Sector)  rolled  out  close  to
359 offers to IIT Jodhpur Students; and
Thereafter, the BoG was informed about the New Research Initiatives as under:
Joint Centres with Collaborating Institutes:
➢  AIIMS Jodhpur - IIT Jodhpur: Joint Med.-Tech. Centre
➢  National Law University (NLU), Jodhpur - IIT Jodhpur: Joint Centre on Law
➢  ARIES, Nainital - IIT Jodhpur: Joint Centre on Astronomy and Astrophysics
In  these  Centres,  Joint  Research  /  Innovation  Programmes  in  Interdisciplinary
areas  would  be  taken  up  by  Affiliate  Faculty  from  both  the  Institutes  in
collaboarating mode through different Departments of IITJ. Faculty appointments
in these Centres would be made in future as part of the growth of the academic
activities of the Centres.
The  Director  informed  that  these  Centres  will  be  part  of  the  Inter-Disciplinary
Research Division (IDRD), IIT Jodhpur.
The  Chairman,  BoG  asked  the  Director  about  the  response  of  AIIMSJ-IITJ
Academic  Programs  on  which  the  Director  responded  that  the  Doctors  of  AIIMS
Jodhpur have also enrolled for Ph.D. Program.
One  of  the  Members  requested  IIT  Jodhpur  to  explore  the  possibility  of
R&D work in the area of Agriculture / Protected Agriculture. The Director
informed  that  the  Institute  has  already  discussed  the  possibility  of
collaboration  with  CAZRI,  Jodhpur  and  Agriculture  University  Jodhpur
and is open for collaborations. At this point, the Chairman opined that the
initiative should also be taken from the other side.
The  BoG  requested  the  Director  try  to  move  forward  for  possible
collaborations in Protected Agriculture Research area.
The Director further briefed the BoG about the new Research Initiatives as under:
➢  5  Projects  have  already  been  approved  by  Governing  Council  (GC)  of
DRDO Industry-Academia – Center of Excellence with a financial outlay of
~ ₹30 Crores.
Initial selection for a Pilot Project with Financial Outlay of ₹2.00 Crores on
the AI-CoE on Sustainable City is completed.
➢  Joint  Project  submitted  with  SAMEER,  Mumbai  on  enhancement  of  MRI
images  (transforming  field  strength)  of  the  SAMEER  developed  MRI
System using Generative AI.
The Board of Governors noted the Institute Report with appreciation.
36.2.1  Action Taken Report on previous decisions of the Board of Governors
The  Director  briefed  the  Action  Taken  on  the  following  items  to  the  Board  of
34.4.2:  Review  the  Prof.  Meghnad  Saha  Fellowship  to  provide  an  option
to young Ph.D.’s (belonging to SC / ST / NCL-OBC / EWS categories)
As per the direction of the BoG  in its 34th Meeting held on 31st October, 2023 to
revise  the  guidelines  of  the  Meghnad  Saha  Post-Doctoral  Fellowship  (PDF),  the
Director  informed  the  BoG  that  the  Institute  has  revised  the  guidelines  which
were presented to the Finance Committee.
The  Finance  Committee  recommended  the  revised  guidelines  to  the  Board  of
Governors for its approval.
SP.12.3.1: Review the guidelines of the award of Best Thesis Work
As  per  the  direction  of  the  BoG  in  its  Pre-Convocation  12th Special  Meeting  held
on  21st  November,  2023  to  review  the  guidelines  of  Award  of  Best  Ph.D.  Thesis
Work, the Institute has revised the  existing guidelines and the  same  was placed
before the Senate in its 37th Meeting held on 20th March, 2024.
The Director  apprised the BoG that the Senate discussed the guidelines in detail
and opined that the proposed guidelines  should be shared with all the Academic
Units  first  for  their  suggestions.  Thereafter,  it  will  be  discussed  in  the  next
meeting  of  the  Senate  before  recommending  the  revised  guidelines  for  the
consideration of the BoG.
The Board of Governors noted the Action Taken Report (ATR) with satisfaction.
36.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
36.3.1  To  consider  &  approve  the  recommendations  of  31st  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee held on 27th March, 2024 at IIT Jodhpur
The recommendations of the Finance Committee made in its 31st Meeting held on
27th March, 2024 were presented before the Board of Governors.
The  BoG  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  31st  Meeting  of  the  Finance
Committee as under:
31.2.1: Statement of Expenditure as on 15th March, 2024
On  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee,  the  Board  of  Governors
considered and approved the following:
“The  Statement  of  Fund  received  from  the  Ministry  of  Education  and
Expenditure  incurred  by  the  Institute  under  Object  Head-31  (Recurring),
Object  Head-36  (Salary)  and  Object  Head-35  (Non-Recurring)  were
presented to the Finance Committee.
It was briefed to the Finance Committee that the expected shortfall would
be ₹20 Crores in Recurring (OH-31), ₹8.00 Crores in Salary (OH-36) and
₹4.21  Crores  in  Non-Recurring  (OH-35).  It  was  also  briefed  that  the
Institute  requested  to  the  Ministry  of  Education  to  allocate  Additional
Budget  of  ₹35.00  Crores  (₹10.00  Crores  under  OH-36,  ₹20.00  Crores
under  OH-31  and  ₹5.00  Crores  under  OH-35)  to  the  Institute  for  the
ongoing FY 2023-24.
The  Finance  Committee  was  further  briefed  that  if  the  Ministry  of
Education,  Govt.  of  India  would  not  release  the  Grant-in-Aid  as
demanded, the shortfall may increase further.
The  Finance  Committee  noted  the  status  of  Funds  and  recommended  to
the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  shortfall  due  to  excess  of  expenditure
over  the  Grant-in-Aid  received  from  the  MoE  be  met  out  from  IRG,  if
additional Grant-in-Aid is not sanctioned by the MoE.”
31.2.3:  To  consider  and  recommend  the  Revised  Manual  for  Processes
and Procedures of Internal Audit-2024
The Board of Governors noted that the Finance Committee provisionally accepted
the  Revised  Manual  and  authorized  the  Director  to  make  amendments  as
required.  The  Finance  Committee  recommended  to  have  discussion  with  its
Member(s) and  stakeholders. The analysis of financial activities and the updated
Manual may be revised further and be presented in six months.
31.2.4:  To  consider  and  recommend  the  revision  of  the  Sitting  Fee
payable  to  the  Members  of  the  Statutory  Bodies  such  as,  the
Board  of  Governors,  Finance  Committee,  B&WC,  Senate  and  the
external experts of the Selection Committees, etc.
On  the    recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee,  the  Board  of  Governors
approved  the  revision  in  the  Sitting  Fee  from  ₹5,000  to  ₹7,500  per  meeting
payable to the Members of the Statutory Bodies such as, the Board of Governors,
Finance  Committee,  B&WC,  Senate  and  the  external  experts  of  the  Selection
Committees / eminent experts invited for talks / lectures.
31.2.7:  To  consider  and  recommend  the  revised  guidelines  of  Meghnad
Saha Post-Doctoral Fellowship (PDF)
The BoG went through the revised guidelines of the Meghnad Saha Post-Doctoral
Fellowship (PDF) and after detailed deliberations, approved the same.
The Board of Governors also resolved that the revised guidelines shall be
made  applicable  for  existing  Post  Doctoral  Fellows  and  will  be  effective
from 1st May, 2024.
31.4.1: To consider and recommend the Fee Structure for new B.Sc.-B.Ed.
The BoG noted that IIT Jodhpur is starting a four-year (8 Semesters) B.Sc.-B.Ed.
Integrated  Teachers  Education  Program  (ITEP)  Program  from  Semester  I,  A.Y.
2024-25 with an intake of 50 Students. Subsequently, the Institute proposed the
Fee  Structure  for  the  B.Sc.-B.Ed.  (ITEP)  Program.  The  Fee  Structue  was  placed
before  the  Finance  Committee  and  it  recommended  the  Fee  Structure  for  the
B.Sc.-B.Ed. (ITEP) Program to the BoG for approval.
The BoG approved Fee Structure for the B.Sc.-B.Ed. (ITEP) Program.
36.3.2  To consider and approve the recommendations of the 37th Meeting of the
Senate held on 20th March, 2024 at IIT Jodhpur
The Board of Governors noted and approved the recommendations of the Senate
made in its 37th Meeting held on 20th March, 2024.
The Board of Governors suggested the following to the Institute:
1.  The  Board  of  Governors  appreciated  and  approved  the  Proposal  of  the
Institute  to  start  stackable  B.Sc./BS  Program  in  Applied  AI  and  Data
Science.  The  Board  of  Governors  suggested  to  have  a  review  of  the
programme after 2 Years of its initiation for further action; and
2.  The BoG appreciated the Proposal to start B.Sc.-B.Ed. (ITEP) Program and
suggested that the Institute may also explore to include the Life Sciences
subjects in the Program.
The  Director  welcomed  the  suggestions  and  stated  that  the  Institute  would  take
36.3.3  To consider and approve the recommendations of the 32nd Meeting of the
Builiding & Works Committee held on 19th March, 2024 at IIT Jodhpur
The  BoG  was  briefed  that  the  recommendations  of  the  Building  &  Works
Committee  (B&WC)  made  in  its  32nd  Meeting  held  on  19th  March,  2024  were
placed before the Finance Committee in its 31st Meeting held on 27th March, 2024.
The Finance Committee recommended the same to the BoG for its approval.
The  BoG  discussed  the  recommendations  of  the  B&WC  and  appreciated  that  the
Institute is taking initiative for Solid Waste Management in the Campus. The BoG
suggested to the Director that the Institute should also explore the possibility to
work in the area of Electronic Waste Management.
The Director welcomed the suggestions and stated that the Institute would  work
After  detailed  deliberations  and  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee, the Board of Governors approved the recommendations of the B&WC
made in its 32nd Meeting held on 19th March, 2024.
36.3.4  To  consider  and  approve  the  proposal  to  provide  10  additional  Special
Casual  Leave  to  Visiting  Professors  /  Distinguished  Professors  /  Advisor
The  Director  apprised  the  BoG  that  at  present  the  Visiting  Professors  /
Distinguished  Professors  are  entitled  to  30  Days  of  Annual  Leave  and  8  Days  of
Casual  Leave.  The  Institute  is  receiving  requests  from  Visiting  Professors  /
Distinguished Professors for grant of Special Casual Leave or Duty Leave for which
they are not entitled as per existing BoG guidelines.
Subsequently,  the  matter  was  discussed  in  the  Executive  Committee  of  Senate
(ECS), IIT Jodhpur in its 31st Meeting held on 13th February, 2024 and the ECS was
of  the  view  that  the  Visiting  Professors  /  Distinguished  Professors  /  Advisor
(Academics)  are  very  senior  faculty  /  scientist(s)  and  they  get  invitations  for  the
Selection  Committees  /  Project  Review  Committees,  Invitations  as  Speakers  at
Conferences, and to be Members / Chairpersons of various National / Industry-level
Committees.  Considering  the  same,  the  ECS  recommended  to  provide  additional
(maximum  of  10  days)  Leave  as  a  Special  Casual  Leave  in  a  year  to  Visiting
Professors  /  Distinguished  Professors  /  Advisor  (Academics)  and  to  place  the
proposal before the Board of Governors for its approval.
After  detailed  deliberation,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  to  provide  15
additional Special Casual Leave to Visiting Professors / Distinguished  Professors /
Advisor (Academics) considering their rich experience and seniority.
To  consider  and  approve  the  minor  revision  in  the  guidelines  for
enrolment in Part-time Ph.D. for the Staff Members of the Institute
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Staff  Members  of  the
Institute  have  been  requesting  to  amend  the  existing  guidelines  related  to  the
criteria  of  5  years’  service  in  the  Institute  for  enrolment  in  the  Part-time  Ph.D.
Therefore,  the  Institute
consideration of the Board of Governors:
is  proposing  the
should  have  worked  at
the Institute for at least
Group-A Officers  will be eligible  for enrolment in  the
Part-time  Ph.D.  Program  of  IIT  Jodhpur  after  their
confirmation  of  services  and  minimum  of  1  Year
Group-B  and  Group-C  Staff  Members  will  be  eligible
for  enrolment  in  the  Part-time  Ph.D.  Program  of  IIT
Jodhpur  after  their  confirmation  of  services  and
minimum of 2 Years continuous service.
After  detailed  deliberations,  the  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  above
amendment  in  the  existing  guidelines  to  provide  better  opportunities  to  the  Staff
Members  of the Institute. The other guidelines  mentioned in the Office Order No.
IITJ/Admin/2020-21/131 dated 15th July, 2020 shall remain unchanged.
To consider  and  approve the expert panel for the  appointment of Faculty
positions in the Centre for Education & Technology for Education (CETE)
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  panel  of  experts  for  the  appointment  of
Faculty positions in the Centre for Education & Technology for Education (CETE).
To consider and approve the adoption of the rules pertaining to “Scheme
for  Compassionate  Appointment  under  Central  Government”  at  IIT
After detailed deliberations, the Board of Governors approved the adoption of the
rules  pertaining  to  “Scheme  for  Compassionate  Appointment  under  Central
Government” at IIT Jodhpur.
To  consider  and  approve  the  eligibility  criteria  for  the  post  of  Hindi
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  the  revised  eligibility  criteria  and  the
Recruitment Rules for the sanctioned post of Hindi Officer.
To consider and approve addition of experts in the existing panel for the
selection of Non-Faculty positions
The Board of Governors approved the addition of experts in the existing panel for
the selection of Non-Faculty positions.
36.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
36.4.1  Report on the implementation of the National Education Policy-2020
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  report  on  the  implementation  of  the  National
Education Policy - 2020 as presented in the Agenda.
36.4.2  Report on the status of filling-up of Backlog vacancies
The Board of Governors noted the report on the status of the filling-up of Backlog
vacancies as presented in the Agenda.
36.4.3  Report  on  the  joining  and  resigning  of  the  Faculty  Members  and  Staff
Members from the Institute
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  report  on  the  joining  and  resigning  of  the
Faculty Members and Staff Members from the Institute.
36.4.4  Adoption  of  Circulars/  Orders/  O.Ms.  of  the  Ministry  of  Education,
Government of India
The Board approved the adoption of the O.Ms. as presented in the Agenda.
36.4.5  Report  of  R&D  Projects  sanctioned  to  the  Faculty  Members  of  the
Institute since the last meeting of the BoG
The Board noted the Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of
the Institute since the last meeting of the BoG.
The  Chairman,  BoG  suggested  that  the  Institute  may  consider  to  put  in  place  a
mechanism  for  effective  monitoring  of  the  ongoing  Projects  and  their  targeted
delivery because their performance is linked with the credibility of the Institute.
The  Director  apprised  the  BoG  that  the  matter  was  discussed  in  the  R&D
Management  Committee  of  the  Institute  and  the  Institute  will  undertake
performance analysis on the different parameters and submit the outcome before
the Board of Governors in its ensuing Meeting.
36.4.6  Report  of  MoUs/Agreement(s)  signed  with  different  Institutions  /
organizations / companies by the Institute
The  Board  noted  the  Report  of  MoUs/Agreement(s)  signed  with  different
Institutions / Organizations / Companies by the Institute.
36.4.7  Report  approval  accorded  by  the  Director,  IIT  Jodhpur  for  the
registration  of  the  IIT  Jodhpur  Employees  Thrift  Society  in  line  with  the
The Board of Governors noted and ratified the approval accorded by the Director,
IIT  Jodhpur  for  registration  of  the  IIT  Jodhpur  Employees  Thrift  Society  in  line
with other IITs.
36.4.8  Report on the status of the Court Cases of the Institute
The Board of Governors noted the same.
36.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
36.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors/Director.
Reports of Selection Committees of Post-Doctoral Fellowships
The Board noted the Selection Committee reports of appointment of  5 PDFs and
ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG as presented in the Agenda.
Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note on extension
/ appointment through Standing Committees
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG, as presented in
36.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
36.6.1  To  consider  and  approve  publishing  of  Advertisement  for  Non-Teaching
positions (Direct & Limited Departmental Examination)
The  Director  briefed  to  the  BoG  that  the  total  sanctioned  strength  of  Non-
teaching Positions is 447 and out of which only 229 Staff Members are in-position
which  are  not  catering  to  the  current  requirement  of  the  Institute.  Considering
the present student strength of 4758 and to support the administrative as well as
technical  functions  of  the  Institute,  it  is  submitted  to  the  BoG  that  the  Institute
Departmental Examination (LDE)) to support the functions of the Institute.
the  non-teaching  positions
Further,  the  Board  of  Governors  also  discussed  that  the  Election  Commission  of
India  has  announced  the  schedule  of  General  Elections  2024  and  as  per  Model
Code  of  Conduct  issued  by  the  ECI  “Regular  recruitment  /  appointment  or
promotion  through  the  UPSC,  State  Public  Service  Commissions  or  the  Staff
Selection  Commission  or  any  other  Statutory  Authority  can  continue.
Recruitments  through  non-statutory  bodies,  will  require  prior  clearance  of  the
The  Chairman,  Board  of  Governors  suggested  that  the  Institute  should  continue
the Recruitment process for Faculty and Non-Faculty Positions and set targets to
fill-up  maximum  vacancies  in  order  to  maintain  the  pace  of  growth  of  the
The  members  of  the  Board  of  Governors  also  seconded  the  suggestion  of  the
The  Chairman,  BoG  highly  appreciated  the  commendable  work  done  in  the  last  5+  years  and
new  initiatives  taken  by  the  Director  for  excellent  and  visible  growth  of  the  Institute.  The
Institute is also taking good steps in line with the Viksit Bharat-2047 Initiative of Govt.  of
India. All the members of the BoG agreed and appreciated able and visionary leadership.
After  the  conclusion  of  the  Meeting  of  the  BoG,  the  Registrar  &  Secretary,  BoG  thanked  the
Chairman, BoG, the Director and the Members for their invaluable time and critical inputs.
Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur