INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
Minutes of 40th Meeting
06 March 2025 (8.00 AM to 8.00 PM)
Through online e-Senate web portal
07 March 2025 at 3.00 PM
In physical mode at Senate Room, Chanakya Complex, Admin Wing (West), IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Minutes of 40th Meeting
6-7 March 2025
The following members participated in e-Senate Meeting held on 06th March 2025 and/or
Senate Meeting held in physical mode on 07th March 2025:
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Vinod K. Singh, Department of Chemistry, IIT Kanpur
Prof. Munmun Jha
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT Kanpur
Prof. Mayank Vatsa, Department of CS&E
Prof. Richa Singh, Department of CS&E
Prof. Mitali Mukerji, Department of BSBE
Prof. Ajay Agarwal, Department of EE
Prof. Gaurav Bhatnagar, Department of Mathematics
Prof. Mahesh Kumar, Department of EE
Prof. Deepakkumar M. Fulwani, Department of EE
Prof. Anil Kumar Tiwari, Department of EE
Prof. Manikandan Paranjothy, Department of Chemistry
Prof. Ananya Debnath, Department of Chemistry
Prof. B. Ravindra, Department of ME
Prof. Anand Krishnan Plappally, Department of ME
Prof. Prodyut Ranjan Chakraborty, Department of ME
Prof. Rahul Chhibber, Department of ME
Prof. Sushmita Jha, Department of BSBE
Prof. Asif Ekbal, SAIDE
Prof. Sandeep Kumar Yadav, Department of EE
Prof. Hari Narayanan V, SoLA
Prof. Bhabani Kumar Satapathy, Metallurgical and Materials Engg.
Prof. Neeraj Jain, Dean of Faculty Affairs (DOFA)
Prof. Samanwita Pal, Dean of Research and Development (DORD)
25.  Dr. Aashish Mathur
Acting Dean of Digital Infrastructure & Automation (DDIA)
Prof. Atul Kumar, Dean of Academic Affairs (DOAA)
Prof. Ankita Sharma, Dean of Student Affairs (DOSA)
Prof. Ram Prakash, Dean of Infrastructure Planning (DOIP)
Prof. Kaushal A. Desai, Dean of Resources & Alumni (DORA)
Prof.  Shree Prakash Tiwari, Dean of Administration (DOAD)
Prof. Amit Mishra
Head, Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
Prof. Parag Arvind Deshpande
Head, Department of Chemical Engineering
Prof. Gaurav Harit
Head, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Prof. Bharat Singh Rajpurohit
Head, Department of Electrical Engineering
Prof. Suril V. Shah
Head, Department of Mechanical Engineering
Prof. K.R. Ravi
Head, Department of Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
37.  Dr. Deepika Bhattu
Acting Head, Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering
38.  Dr. Reetanjali Moharana, Head, Department of Physics
39.  Dr. V.V. M.S. Chandramouli, Head, Department of Mathematics
40.  Dr. Sandip Murarka, Head, Department of Chemistry
41.  Dr. Deepak Saxena
Acting Head, School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME)
42.  Dr. Alok Ranjan
Head, School of Liberal Arts (SoLA)
43.  Dr. Dipanjan Roy
Acting Head, School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science (AIDE)
44.  Dr. Nimish Vohra, Head, School of Design
45.  Dr. Neha Jain, Department of Bioscience and Bioengineering
46.  Dr. Vikky Anand, Department of Chemical Engineering
47.  Dr. Rohan Diliprao Erande, Department of Chemistry
48.  Dr. Saran Aadhar, Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engg.
49.  Dr. Angshuman Paul, Department of Computer Science & Engineering
50.  Dr. Saakshi Dhanekar, Department of Electrical Engineering
51.  Dr. Dilpreet Kaur, Department of Mathematics
52.  Dr. Arun Kumar R, Department of Mechanical Engineering
53.  Dr. Jaiveer Singh, Department of Metallurgical & Materials
54.  Dr. Santosh Mogurampelly, Department of Physics
55.  Dr. Ramesh Metre, Inter-disciplinary Research Division (IDRD)
56.  Dr. Anuj Pal Kapoor, School of Management & Entrepreneurship
57.  Dr. Bhivraj Suthar, School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science
58.  Dr. Farhat Naz, School of Liberal Arts
59.  Dr. Gaurav Vinod Vaidya, School of Design
60.  Dr. Goverdhan Dutt Puri, Executive Director, AIIMS Jodhpur
61.  Chairman, Senate Under Graduate Committee (SUGC)
62.  Chairman, Senate Post Graduate Committee (SPGC)
63.  Chairman, Senate Online Education Committee (SOEC)
Prof. S. R. Vadera, Advisor to the Director
65.  Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury,
Department of Civil & Infrastructure Engineering
66.  Dr. Sumit Kamal, School of Design
67.  General Secretary, ACAC
68.  General Secretary, Student Senate
69.  Dr. Ankur Gupta, Offg. Registrar
The following members could not participate in the Meeting
1.    Prof.  Manoj  K.  Tiwari,  Director,
Prof. Surajit Ghosh, Department of BSBE
Prof. Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Department of Chemistry
Prof. Subhashish Banerjee, Department of Physics
Prof. Ambesh Dixit, Department of Physics
Prof. Meenu Chhabra, Department of BSBE
Prof.  Krishna  P.  Kaliappan,  Department  of  Chemistry,  IIT
Prof. Somitra K. Sanadhya, Department of CS&E
The following were the outcomes of the Senate Meeting:
Welcome by the Chairman, Senate
The  Chairman  welcomed  all  the  members  including  the  external  members
(online)  for  joining  the  40th  meeting  of  the  Senate  in  Physical  mode.  The
Chairman  of  the  Senate  further  introduced  and  welcomed  the  following
Senate  members  who  attended  the  meeting  for  the  first  time  as  Senate
1)  Prof. Ravi K. R., Department of Metallurgical and Materials Engineering
2)  Prof. Sandeep Kumar Yadav, Department of Electrical Engineering
3)  Prof. Hari Narayanan V, School of Liberal Arts
4)  Prof.  Bhabani  Kumar  Satapathy,  Department  of  Metallurgical  and
The  Chairman  apprised  the  members  that  the  first  three  faculty  members
have been recently promoted, and Prof. Satapathy joined IIT Jodhpur from
IIT  Delhi.  He  also  thanked  all  Senate  Members  for  their  enthusiastic
engagement and wholehearted participation during the e-Senate Meeting of
IIT  Jodhpur  held  on  March  6,  2025,  and  noted  that  the  initiative  of  the
e-Senate had been a fruitful decision.
The Chairman further mentioned that, based on the agreement and feedback
from the Senate Members on the e-Senate web-portal, he had approved a
few agenda items and requested confirmation from the Senate members in
the  physical  meeting  regarding  the  approved  e-Senate  agenda  items.  The
Senate affirmed the Chairman's ruling.
Additionally, the following faculty members, who were present at the Senate
meeting as Permanent Invitees for the first time, were also welcomed:
1)  Dr.  Amit  Bhardwaj,  Chairperson,  Senate  Under  Graduate  Committee
2)  Dr.  Kirankumar  R.  Hiremath,  Chairperson,  Senate  Post  Graduate
3)  Dr. Rajendra Nagar, Chairperson, Senate Online Graduate Committee
The Chairman of the Senate also welcomed and introduced Dr. Ankur Gupta,
Associate Professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, who was
attending  the  Senate  meeting  for  the  first  time  in  the  capacity  of  the
Officiating Registrar. He also expressed gratitude to Dr. Hari Om Yadav, the
outgoing Registrar, for his contributions to the Institute.
Confirmation of Minutes of the 39th Meeting of the Senate held on 22-
23 October 2024
The  Senate  confirmed  the  Minutes  of  the  39th  Meeting  of  the  Senate,  as
Report on Action Taken on decisions of the 39th Meeting of the Senate
held on 22-23 October 2024
The Senate noted the following Action Taken Report (ATR) on the decisions
of the 39th Meeting of the Senate held on 22-23 October 2024:
Item  Discussion Items
Proposal  for  issuance  of  SSI  based  Degree  based  on
blockchain  technology  and  Digital Wallet  with  inhouse
Degree & Certificate printing
Proposal for approval of Degree/Diploma certificates for
new  programs  in  which  students  are  graduating  this
for  Direct  Admission  of  Meritorious
International Graduating/Graduated UG/PG Students of
Reputed  International  Universities  at  IIT  Jodhpur  into
Proposal  for  revised  guidelines  for  comprehensive
examination of Ph.D. students
39.3  Procedural Items
Recommendations  to  confer  the  Award  of  B.Tech.,
B.Tech.  Minor/Specialization,  M.Sc.,  M.Tech.,  MBA,
MBA-Technology,  MBA  Double  Degree,  Masters
(Medical  Technologies),  M.Sc.-M.Tech.,  and  Ph.D.
Degrees, PG Diploma/Certificate to students, who meet
the various academic requirements
Updated Information related to the endowed Award for
Proposal  for  norms  for  Scholarships  and  Prizes  and
details of Award winners for 10th Convocation
Proposal  to  restructure  all  M.Tech.  and  Ph.D.  Programs  of  the
Prof. Kirankumar Hiremath, Chairperson, Senate Post Graduate Committee
(SPGC) presented the proposal to restructure all M.Tech. and Ph.D. programs
of the Institute before the Senate. He shared that in line with the Institute's
vision  to  provide  programs  with  a  strong  research  focus,  alongside  core
courses that address both fundamental knowledge and translational research
needs,  the  reforms  to  the  M.Tech.  and  Ph.D.  curricula  and  structure have
Reforms in M.Tech. programs:
Chairperson  SPGC  apprised  the  members  that  the  M.Tech.  curriculum
requires students to complete between 58 and 62 credits, depending on the
specific requirements of their academic unit. As part of the M.Tech. program,
students  are  required  to  register  for  17-20  credits  of  compulsory  courses,
16-18 credits of program electives, 6 credits of open electives, and 16 credits
The  existing  structure  places  disproportionate  emphasis  on  coursework,
which  limits  the  opportunity  for  M.Tech.  students  to  make  substantial
contributions to research. To address this, the Institute is now proposing a
revised  M.Tech.  program  structure,  which  includes  fundamental  and
advanced courses in the first two semesters, followed by a dedicated M.Tech.
thesis in the final two semesters and the summer/s.
L-T-P  Credits    Cat.
NG2  HSN7XX0  Non-
The coursework in the first two semesters includes four compulsory and four
elective courses with a flexibility of having either three or four compulsory
courses in the first semester as per the program requirements. The elective
courses  must  be  relevant  to  the  theme  of  the  M.Tech.  program  of  the
respective  academic  units.  The  departments  can  restructure  the  Senate
approved  courses  (Compulsory  as  well  as  Elective)  to  make  them  more
relevant  to  the  restructured  program or  propose  new  ones  with  adequate
justifications in line with the concept note of the M.Tech. programs.
The Senate appreciated the proposal and approved the revised structure of
all M.Tech. programs. This proposal would be applicable to the batches from
Academic  Year  2025-26.  The  M.Tech.  students  can  also  convert  their
program to the Ph.D. program as per the existing norms.
Reforms in Ph.D. programs:
The  Chairperson  SPGC  presented  the  following  changes  for  the  Ph.D.
1.  Minimum Course Credits to be earned by Ph.D. students:
Chairperson SPGC presented the approved regulation (existing) of the credit
requirements for a Ph.D. student to the Senate.
Given the vision of the Institute to attract direct Ph.D. students from NITs
and other CFTIs, he shared that to enhance the research ecosystem at IIT
Jodhpur,  it  is  imperative  for  these  students  to  register  for  fundamental
courses offered by the respective academic units. These courses will not only
help  Ph.D.  students  strengthen  their  understanding  of  the  minimum
fundamental  aspects  of  their  academic  units  but  will  also  provide  a  broad
spectrum of translational research in their areas of interest. In light of this,
the  following  was  proposed  regarding  the  minimum  credits  to  be  earned
M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc.
(Engineering) in an
4 Compulsory (equivalent
to a minimum of 12
Credits, same as that of
the M.Tech. program)
M.Sc. degree in a Science
4 Compulsory (Same as
Above) + 4 Electives
B.Tech., B.S., B.E. or
B.Sc. (Engineering) in an
M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil.
degree in a Science,
Humanities or Social
As per approved norms
after 2 years of Masters
degree in appropriate
4 Compulsory (Same as
Above) + 4 Electives
Further,  the  Chairperson  SPGC  shared  that  the  departments  can  design
various sets of compulsory courses based on the department. These courses
should  be  newly  proposed  by  the  department  and  reflect  the  minimum
essential foundational knowledge of the department's domain, regardless of
the research theme of the Ph.D. thesis. The four compulsory courses should
account for a minimum of 12 credits. This will further optimize the teaching-
learning  outcomes.  The  science  departments  and  academic  units  with  no
M.Tech.  program  can  prepare  four  common  compulsory  courses  or  create
two  common  compulsory  courses  and  two  compulsory  courses  in  the
The  Senate  appreciated  and  approved  the  proposal.  The  Senate  further
suggested that this proposal be implemented for the batches from Academic
2.  To award an additional M. Tech. Degree to direct Ph.D. Students
Chairperson, SPGC proposed that the direct Ph.D. students holding a B.Tech.
degree have the option to pursue an additional M.Tech. degree by fulfilling
the  M.Tech.  thesis  requirements,  in  addition  to  completing  the  prescribed
coursework.  These  students  must  complete  four  compulsory  courses  (the
same as Ph.D. students) and four elective courses. The coursework would be
counted towards both degrees. The M.Tech. thesis topic and content must
be different from the Ph.D. thesis topic and content. The additional M.Tech.
degree will be awarded simultaneously with the Ph.D. degree, but only upon
the  completion  of  the  Ph.D.  program.  This  initiative  will  help  the  Institute
attract  high-quality  students  and  promote  a  strong  research ecosystem  at
After a detailed discussion, the Senate approved the proposal to award an
additional  M.Tech.  degree  to  direct  Ph.D.  students,  but  only  upon  the
completion of their Ph.D. program. The Senate also recommended extending
this implementation to direct Ph.D. students who are already enrolled in the
3.  To  combine  State-of-the-Art  (SOTA)  Seminar  with  Research
The Chairperson SPGC briefed that to strengthen and accelerate the Ph.D.
program, it is proposed to combine SOTA and RP. Ph.D. students will now
be required to present a literature survey along with patent landscaping in
their area of research and make a brief research proposal towards the end
of  SOTA  seminar.  In  view  of  this,  the  separate  defense  of  RP  will  be
withdrawn. This modification will enable students to complete the candidacy
requirements within a year, but in no case later than three semesters after
the first registration of Ph.D. program.
The Senate discussed the proposal in detail and approved it to strengthen
and accelerate the Ph.D. program. The Senate also recommended extending
this  implementation  to  all  Ph.D.  students  in  the  institute  with  immediate
4.  To  restructure  comprehensive  examinations  (two  written  and
The  Chairperson  SPGC  presented  to  the  Senate  that  the  comprehensive
examination  should  be  designed  to  assess  the  student's  overall  capability
and the breadth of their knowledge in their departmental discipline, primarily
in the area covered by the compulsory courses.
He proposed to modify this format to include two written examinations and
one oral examination as part of the comprehensive examination. The written
examinations will be scheduled, preferably once in two months for the entire
department. The oral examination committee (for individual students) will
consist of the Student Research Committee (SRC) and at least one faculty
member  responsible  for  preparing  one  of  the  written  question  papers  as
recommended by the DPGC (Convener).
The  Senate  approved  the  proposal  for  the  new  students  joining  from  AY
5.  To withdraw part-time (online) Ph.D. category from admission
The Chairperson SPGC, shared that a part-time (online) student is a working
professional who, while employed, attends classes in a synchronous audio-
visual mode according to the Institute's schedule, including limited contact
The implementation and execution of the part-time (online) Ph.D. program
presents  significant  challenges  for  both  the  Institute  and  the  supervisor.
Since  the  students  are  not  physically  available  for  coursework,  they
complete  the  requirements  solely  through  a  hybrid  mode,  making  the
teaching-learning  process  inadequate  throughout  the  semester.  While  the
regulations  require  such  students  to  spend  at  least  one  year  on  campus
before submitting their Ph.D. thesis, monitoring their physical presence on
campus  is  a  complex  task.  Additionally,  tracking  the  progress  of  these
students over time poses significant challenges for departments.
Given these issues, the Chairperson SPGC proposed to discontinue the part-
time online Ph.D. category.
After a detailed discussion, the Senate approved the immediate withdrawal
of  the  part-time  (online)  Ph.D.  category  from  the  admission  process  and
suggested the following:
(a)  The  candidates  who  have  already  applied  under  the  part-time  (online)
category  may  have  their  applications  considered  under  the  external
category, provided the candidates agree. Otherwise, their application fees
may be refunded;
(b)  The part-time (online) Ph.D. students already enrolled with the institute,
may  be  converted  to  the  external  Ph.D.  students  category,  once  they
complete their candidacy requirements;
In view of the emphasis on direct Ph.D. admissions, awarding additional
M.Tech.  degree  to  direct  Ph.D.  students,  and  the  existing  provision  to
convert M.Tech. to M.Tech.-Ph.D. program, the Senate further suggested
withdrawing  separate  M.Tech.-Ph.D.  programs  existing  in  various
academic  units.  These  programs  are  also  not  attracting  a  significant
number of students; and
(d)  Further, in principle the Senate also approved to withdraw the admission
of Masters-Ph.D. dual degree program in Med-Tech subject to the approval
of  the  AIIMS  Jodhpur  governing  body.  Further  Masters  students  in  the
Med-Tech program may also be provided with an option to convert their
Masters program to the Ph.D. program.
6.  To  revise  Clause  13.4  from  the  PG  regulations  regarding  a
maximum  of  one-year  academic  leave  to  other  academic
The Chairperson SPGC presented that as per the current regulation, a Ph.D.
student  may  be  allowed  to  spend  a  maximum  duration  of  one  year  on
including  Field  work,  Library  work,  Experimental
work/training  using  specialized  facility  not  available  at  IITJ,  Collaborative
work as  part  of joint  M.  Tech./Ph.D. supervision,  Collaborative work for a
specific  problem  related  to  his  ongoing  Ph.D.  programme    as  indicated  in
his  research  proposal  and  Exchange  program  as  part  of  an  exchange
program with sister institution in India or abroad.
In the past few years, the number of students applying for academic leaves
for 6 or more months have increased significantly. The need for independent
supervision by IITJ faculty members and regular interactions with the Ph.D.
students for timely completion of their Ph.D. program cannot be emphasized
more. Further, in the last few years, the institute has expanded its state-of-
the-art  facilities  in  diverse  academic  domains  to  cater  the  growing  needs
and demands of advanced instruments and research facilities.
He proposed that the Institute must allow academic leave only in exceptional
circumstances and genuine cases on a case-to-case basis with well-defined
departmental  processes,  following  monitoring  and  review  mechanisms  in
place after the completion of academic leave. Any such academic leave may
be approved for a maximum of two months in a year and a maximum of four
months during the entire academic program. Any exceptional and genuine
need-based case can be further approved by the Chairman Senate, once the
established  process  has  been  duly  followed  by  the  academic  unit.  These
guidelines  are  not  applicable  to  government  approved  international
The Senate approved the proposal with immediate effect.
Action: Chairman SPGC and DOAA
Proposal to award one-year of post-doctoral fellowship to the Ph.D.
students submitting their thesis within 3/4 years
The Chairperson SPGC presented the proposal in the e-Senate that in light
programs and reward outstanding Ph.D. students, it is proposed to offer a
one-year  Post-Doctoral  fellowship  to  Ph.D.  students  who  complete  their
doctoral studies within three or four years. Students who submit their thesis
within  three  years  will  receive  a  one-year  Post-Doctoral  fellowship  of
75,000/-, while those who submit their thesis after three years but before
50,000/-. No exceptions will be
completing their fourth year will receive
made regarding the submission timeline or the fellowship duration.
He  further  presented  that  this  proposal  aimed  to  increase  the  number  of
doctoral  graduates  from  the  Institute  while  also  enhancing  the  career
prospects of faculty members. The Post-Doctoral fellowship will serve as a
strong incentive  for  Ph.D. students to  focus on  and complete  high-quality
research within the specified time frame. Additionally, Post-Doctoral fellows
will continue to support faculty in finalizing research articles and mentoring
new  Ph.D.  students.  Furthermore,  this  initiative  will  not  only  support
research capabilities, fostering long-term growth and recognition.
Based on the consensus and inputs of the Senate members on e-Senate, the
Chairman Senate approved the guidelines and recommended the same to
the Finance Committee and BoG for approval.
Revised  norms  for  partial  financial  support  Ph.D.  students  for
attending and presenting their work in international conferences
The  Chairperson  SPGC  presented  the  current  scheme  of  the  institute
providing partial financial support to the students of UG, PG & Ph.D. before
the  Senate.  In  brief  he  stated  that  funding  has  proven  valuable  in
encouraging students to present their research to a wider audience to interact
with  global  experts  and  gain  exposure.  However,  the  number  of  requests
received by the office of Academic Affairs is overwhelming with a variety of
conferences, some of which do not meet the expected standards of quality
The revised norms presented were as under:
A. Financial support up to   25,000/- to regular Bachelors /Masters
students for presenting research papers in a conference:
1.  The  committee  proposes  financial  support  of
25,000/-  during  their
entire tenure. This fund can be utilized for more than one conference.
2.  Master  students  in  their  2nd  year  with  a  CGPA  of  8.5  and  above  and
Bachelor students after their 3rd year with a CGPA 8.5 and above may be
allowed to avail the partial support.
3.  The applications for funding should be thoroughly discussed at the level
of respective Academic Units (by respective DUGC/ScUGC/DPGC/ScPGC
as applicable) before forwarding to the Office of Academic Affairs.
B. Financial  Support  to  the  regular  Ph.D.  students  for  presenting
The  following  schemes  of  financial  support  to  the  Ph.D.  students  are
proposed  for  attending  conferences  and  presenting  research  papers  in  the
B1. Financial support up to
25,000/- within India to regular Ph.D.
1.  The  committee  proposes  continuance  of  partial  financial  support  of
25,000/-, during entire tenure, to all full-time regular Ph.D. students
(who  are  not  receiving  financial  support  for  attending  conferences  to
present  their  research  as  part  of  their  contingency  from  any  other
agency). This fund can be utilized for more than one conference.
2.  The  Ph.D.  students  will  be  allowed  to  avail  this  assistance  subject  to
completion of their course work requirements at the Institute.
3.  The applications for funding should be thoroughly discussed at the level
of respective Academic Units (by respective DPGC/ScPGC as applicable)
before  recommending  with  due  justification  to  the  Office  of  Academic
B2. Financial support of more than   25,000/- and up to   1,00,000/-
to  regular  Ph.D.  students  (Only  once  in  the  entire  tenure  of  Ph.D.
1.  Eligibility:  Support  will  only  be  provided  after  the  completion  of  all
candidacy requirements for the Ph.D. program.
2.  Funding Condition:
a.  Students seeking this support must provide proof of attempts to secure
financial support from external funding agencies.
b.  The student must have at least one publication from their Ph.D. work in a
journal or conference of high repute.
c.  Only the presenting author of the accepted paper will be eligible for partial
d.  In  case  funding from  another  agency  and IIT  Jodhpur both is  received,
the student will return the excess amount to IIT Jodhpur.
3.  Conference  Quality:  The  international  conference  must  be  of  global
4.  Additional  Support:  Priority  will  be  given  to  students  whose  Ph.D.
supervisor commits to providing partial financial support from their own
5.  The applications for funding should be thoroughly discussed at the level
of respective Academic Units (by Respective DPGC/ScPGC as applicable)
before  recommending  with  due  justification  to  the  Office  of  Academic
6.  Approval to be granted by the Director based on the final recommendation
of SPGC through DOAA.
B3.  Financial  support  of  more  than
1,00,000/-  and  up  to
2,00,000/-  to  regular  Ph.D.  students  (Only  once  in  the  entire
tenure of Ph.D. programme):
For truly exceptional Ph.D. students, who demonstrate outstanding research
quality  and  whose  work  is  being  presented  at  conferences  of  exceptional
repute, the committee proposes financial support between   1,00,000/- and
1.  Eligibility: All the conditions outlined is Section B2 (1) to B2 (4) shall
2.  Exceptional  Research:  DPGC/ScPGC  in  its  recommendation  should
research and the proposed international conference.
3.  Recommendation:  Each  academic  unit,
DPGC/ScPGC, may nominate a maximum of 2 candidates, at the end of
each  semester,  for  the  financial  support  up  to  a  maximum  of
2,00,000/- for presenting their paper at the international conference.
4.  Shortlisting:  An  Institute  wide  committee,  to  be  appointed  by  the
Director, will discuss the recommended applications to select the worthy
students for this category of financial support.
The  applications  of  Ph.D.  students,  seeking  support  in  all  the  above
categories, must be submitted with due recommendation of the supervisor
and DPGC/ScPGC. In its recommendation, the DPGC/ScPGC should provide
comments on the exceptional quality of research and high reputation of the
All  the  students  provided  with  funding  support  for  attending  conferences
outside  India  shall  be  required  to  give  presentations  in  their  respective
academic units. Respective conveners of DPGC/ScPGC will be responsible to
organize these presentations at their respective academic units.
1.  A regular Ph.D. student can avail the financial support for B1, B2, and
B3 schemes until the date of Thesis submission or until the End of the
Institute Fellowship tenure, whichever is earlier.
2.  A regular Ph.D. student can avail only one scheme out of B2 and B3.
3.  The  application  for  financial  support  should  be  submitted  to  the  DoAA
office well in advance of the travel date. Post-facto approvals for travel
will not be permitted.
A committee comprising of the following will scrutinize the applications (All)
1.  Dean (Academic Affairs), Chairperson
2.  SPGC, Chairperson
3.  Dean (Student Affairs)
4.  Associate Dean (Academic Affairs)
This  committee  will  meet  once  in  a  month  to  recommend  the  applications
and quantum of funding up to    10 lakh are disbursed in a given month and
the  applications  are  sent  to  the  Directorate  on  1st  of  every  month  with  a
covering letter indicating the details for approval.
After  a  detailed  discussion,  the  Senate  noted  the  revised  guidelines  and
suggested the following:
(a)  For  Clause  B3-3,  each  academic  unit,
DPGC/ScPGC, may nominate a maximum of 4 candidates, at the end
of  each  semester,  for  the  financial  support  up  to  a  maximum  of
their  paper  at
(b)  Before  submitting  a  paper  for  presentation  at  an  international
conference abroad, the Ph.D. student should first attend a national or
international  conference  within  India.  This  experience  will  enrich  the
student's  knowledge  and  improve  their  paper  preparation  and
presentation,  enhancing  their  performance  at  the  international
(c)  The  maximum  partial  financial  support  for  presenting  their  work  in
international conferences will be  2,00,000/- during their entire tenure.
Proposal  for  Implementation  of  Half  Time  Research  Assistantship
(HTRA)  for  an  additional  year  for  female  Ph.D.  Students  in
compliance of MoE directives
The  Chairperson  SPGC  presented  the  proposal  for  implementation  of  Half
Time Research Assistantship (HTRA) for one additional year (6 Years in total)
in respect of female Ph.D. Students before the Senate. He shared that the
33rd BoG meeting held on 28 June 2023 approved the proposal to provide
Half  Time Teaching  Assistantship  (HTRA) to  female  Ph.D.  students  for  one
additional  year  (6  Years  in  total)  based  on  the  discussion  in  the  55th  IIT
council meeting held on 18 April 2023.
The  Institute  requested  MoE  for  a  clarification  on  the  source  of  financial
support to female Ph.D. students through HTRA. The letter F.No.5-17/2023-
TS.1, dated 01 December 2023, received from the MoE stated that IITs can
provide  HTRA  to  female  Ph.D.  Research  Scholars  on  justifiable  reasons,
exceptional circumstances, on the case-to-case basis subject to the following
A.  Fellowship  for  the  extended  period  of  one  year  may  be  offered  by  the
respective institute from their IRG, after due diligence with the approval
B.  There  shall be a ceiling of 15% of the female scholars to be considered
for the extension.
In light of the above letter, the Chairperson SPGC presented the following
revised guidelines for awarding HTRA to female Ph.D. students:
1.  To be eligible for HTRA, the female student must have completed all Ph.D.
program requirements, including candidacy, and must have published at
least one article in a peer-reviewed journal or high-quality conference.
2.  Requests  for  HTRA  in  the  6th  year  must  be  recommended  by  the
Department/School Faculty Board after reviewing inputs from the SRC and
justification and exceptional circumstances for awarding HTRA in the 6th
year. A detailed report must be submitted to the Office of Academic Affairs
(OoAA) and the Office of Student Affairs (OoSA) for further review.
3.  An institute-wide committee, appointed by the DoAA and headed by DoSA,
must meet before the start of each semester to review the reports from
Departments/Schools and make recommendations to the Chairman of the
Senate for further decision.
4.  If awarded HTRA, the student may be assigned a maximum of four hours
of TA duty per week.
5.  A review committee from the Department/School must assess the Ph.D.
progress after the first six months of the HTRA and recommend whether
to continue the HTRA, if necessary.
6. The HTRA will continue until the student submits the thesis or completes
6 years in the program, whichever occurs first.
7.  The  funding  for  the  assistantship  for  female  Ph.D.  students  for  the
additional year will be processed through the IRG.
8.  There shall be a ceiling of 15% of the female scholars to be considered for
the extension from among those female scholars who have registered in
the 6th Year from the date of registration.
In view of the consensus and inputs of the Senate members on e-Senate,
the Chairman Senate approved the guidelines and recommended the same
to the Finance Committee and BoG for approval.
Concept  Note  for  a  New  M.Des.  Program  in  Smart  Product  Design
from School of Design
Dr.  Gaurav  Vinodrao  Vaidya,  from  the  School  of  Design,  presented  the
proposal for a new M.Des. program in Smart Product Design from the School
of Design in detail. He shared that The Master of Design (MDes) in Smart
Product Design is crafted to meet the growing demand for professionals who
can create innovative, user-centric products that harness the power of smart
technology.  This  program  is  designed  to  bridge  the  gap  between  cutting-
edge technologies, user experience (UX) principles, and design thinking.
The Senate discussed the Concept Note in detail and suggested the following:
(a)  The eligibility criteria should be included as part of the concept note;
(b)  The program format should align  with the  proposed M.Tech. program,
and  therefore,  a  thesis  component  should  be  added  in  the  last  two
semesters instead of a project; and
(c)  A detailed discussion of the program should be conducted in a workshop
with external experts to assess the need, state-of-the-art developments,
industry alignment, and employability of students.
In  light  of  the  above,  the  school  was  advised  to  revisit  the  proposal  and
present  the  revised  version  at  the  upcoming  Senate  meeting  through  the
SPGC.  The  program  was  approved  in  principle  for  advertising,  but  the
detailed structure will need to be discussed again at the next Senate meeting.
Action: Head School of Design
Concept Note for a New M.Tech. Program in Bridge Engineering from
the department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Dr. Trishikhi Raychaudhury from the Department of Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering  presented  the  proposal  for  a  new  M.Tech.  Program  in  Bridge
Engineering. She shared that the institute had received a letter (13-34/2024-
TQ  dated  5th  Aug  2024)  from  the  Under  Secretary,  Ministry  of  Education,
regarding the need for a focused course on bridge engineering in the country.
She also stated that the bridge engineering academic curriculum in India is
insufficient  for  the current civil engineering industry  requirements.  It  lacks
the required rigor compared to the well-established civil engineering courses
(e.g., earthquake engineering, construction technology, etc.). For instance,
in undergraduate (UG) civil engineering programs, students are usually given
a perspective on bridge structures in structural analysis and design courses
without much attention to aforementioned critical factors. The emphasis on
codal provisions and construction practices is not on par with buildings and
other critical structures. To address this limitation by developing a focused
The  Senate  after  detailed  discussion  on  the  Concept  Note  suggested  the
(a)  To  revisit  the  proposal  with  the  philosophical  changes  proposed  for
M.Tech. and Ph.D. programs;
(b)  The department must initiate a detailed discussion of the program in a
workshop  with  external  experts  to  discuss  the  detailed  structure  of
compulsory and elective courses; and
(c)  For  elective  courses,  the  department  may  have  a  single  bouquet  of
courses aligned with the need and mandate of the program.
The department may place the revised Concept Note with a detailed program
structure in the ensuing Senate meeting through the SPGC. The program was
approved in principle for advertising, but the detailed structure will need to
be discussed again at the next Senate meeting.
Action: Head, Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Concept Note for a New M.Tech. Program in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
from the department of Mechanical Engineering
Dr. Arun Kumar R from the Department of Mechanical Engineering presented
the  Concept  Note  for  a  new  M.Tech.  Program  in  Unmanned  Aerial  Vehicle
before the Senate in detail. He shared that the M.Tech. program in UAV at IIT
Jodhpur is designed to have a unique character such that it focuses on content
that  has  practical  relevance  and  on  imparting  skills  that  help  in  developing
technologies  and  products  in  order  to  provide  solutions  for  the  current  and
future needs of the country.
The Senate discussed the Concept Note in detail and suggested revisiting the
proposal in light of the establishment of the Manekshaw Centre of Excellence
for National Security Studies and Research (MCOENSSR) at IIT Jodhpur. The
Senate  recommended  renaming  the  M.Tech.  program  to  "M.Tech.  in  Drone
and Anti-Drone Technologies." A detailed discussion will be required with
faculty  working  in  allied  areas  and  experts  from  across  the  country  in  a
workshop. The electives should include courses such as computer vision and
deep  learning,  in  addition  to  machine  learning  and  artificial  intelligence,  to
cover aspects of autonomous decision-making. The focus of the program must
be on defense and national security.
The  program  was  approved  in  principle  for  advertising,  but  the  detailed
structure will need to be discussed again at the next Senate meeting.
Action: Head Mechanical Engineering
Revised  publication  requirements  for  Ph.D.  students  graduation  -
School of Management & Entrepreneurship
Dr.  Jitesh  Mohnot  from  the  School  of  Management  and  Entrepreneurship,
presented  the  Publication  requirements  for  submission  of  Ph.D.  thesis  for
School of Management & Entrepreneurship in the e-Senate.
The proposed Publication requirements for submission of Ph.D. thesis for school
of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME) were as under:
1. Two  published  or  accepted  papers
2. Published book chapters in an edited book or a Case study publication may
be  considered  towards  publication  requirements.  However,  only  one  such
instance will be counted towards the requirement above.
In view of the consensus and inputs of the Senate members on e-Senate,
the Chairman Senate approved the proposal.
Revised  publication  requirements  for  Ph.D.  students  graduation-
School of Liberal Arts
Dr.  Gurujegan  M.  from  the  School  of  Liberal  Arts  presented  the  revised
Publication requirements for submission of Ph.D. thesis for SoLA before the e-
The detailed publication requirements for submission of Ph.D. thesis for SoLA
presented were as under:
A.  Minimum  two  publications/acceptances  that  can  be  in  any  combination
from indexed journals, conference proceedings, or book chapters.
B.  The  list  of  indexes  includes  Scopus,  Web  of  Science,  EBSCO,  MLA
International  Bibliography,  ABDC,  Clarivate  Analytics  Arts  &  Humanities
Citation  Index®  (A&HCI)  and  Social  Science  Citation  Index®  (SSCI),
ProQuest, and University Press publications.
C.  The  list  of  index  mentioned  above  is  only  indicative  but  not  exhaustive
because  disciplines  like      Sanskrit,  Indian  Knowledge  System,  theatre,
performance, and vernacular languages may not fit into the index. In all
such  cases,  DRC/DPGC  of  the  school  may  decide  on  the  publication
requirement on a case-by-case basis.
D.  It is also proposed that the present rule applies to those students who have
joined the Ph.D. program after the due approval and formal notification of
the rules. The old rule of a minimum one-publication requirement will apply
to  all  those  students  who  have  joined  the  Ph.D.  program  prior  to  the
notification of the present rules.
In view of the consensus and inputs of the Senate members on e-Senate, the
Chairman Senate approved the proposal.
40.2.10  Revised guidelines for the Award of Best Ph.D. Thesis
Dr. Sumit Kamal, Convener of the committee for evaluating Ph.D. theses for
the Best Thesis Award, presented revised guidelines before the Senate. It was
briefed  that  BoG  in  its  12th  Special  Meeting  held  on  November  21,  2023
recommended revising the Institute's Guidelines for the Award of Best Ph.D.
Thesis Work. Accordingly, the revised guidelines were presented to the Senate
at its 37th meeting on March 20, 2024 and it was suggested that the proposed
guidelines  be  shared  with  all  Academic  Units  for  their  feedback,  and  that
separate  criteria  for  awards  in  various  categories  (Science,  Engineering,
Interdisciplinary Research,  and Humanities, Social  Sciences &  Management)
for Stage A and Stage B selections be clearly defined.
The  Senate  discussed  the  committee's  proposal  in  detail  and  suggested
creating a simple two-tier process,
(a)  The first-tier would involve committees at the level of academic units and
a  recommendation  after  due  process  will  be  sent  to  the  Institute  level
(b)  For a nomination to be considered from an academic unit, there must be
a  minimum  number  of  graduates  from  that  unit.  The  committee  may
elaborate on this point;
(c)  In  the  second-tier,  an  institute-wide  committee  would  shortlist  and
propose  the  best  Ph.D.  Thesis  award  by  taking  presentations  from  the
shortlisted students; and
(d)  Depending on the number of students graduating from an academic unit,
there  may  be  more  than  one  award  for  the  best  Ph.D.  thesis  in  the
The  Senate  further  recommended  circulating  the  fresh  proposal  to  all
departments, schools, and centres, and presenting it at the upcoming Senate
meeting through the SPGC.
Action: Prof. Jaywant H Arakeri, Chairman, Committee for evaluating
Ph.D. theses for the Best Thesis Award
40.2.11  Revised guidelines for Branch-Change of B.Tech. students
The  Chairperson,  SUGC  presented  the  proposal  for  guidelines  for Branch-
Change of B.Tech. students before the e-Senate. He shared that to make the
branch  change  policy  more  effective  and  to  overcome  the  identified
constraints, a committee was constituted to review the current branch change
norms and to frame new branch change rules. The committee reviewed the
existing  guidelines  for  branch  change  and  proposed  to  revise  the  existing
guidelines by adopting the branch change criteria as given below:
E1:  The  student  must  have  completed  all  prescribed  course  credits  for  the
previous semesters (including the non-graded courses).
E2: The student has no backlog.
E3: No disciplinary Action has been imposed on the student.
The Upper and Lower Limits were decided after carefully considering the need
for  competitiveness  and  maintaining  fairly  equitable  student  strength  in
different  branches.  The  committee  further  recommended  that  no  option  of
branch change be allowed post second year. Accordingly, the branch change
option  available  to  Engineering  Science  Students  post  their  second  year  is
It  was  also  proposed  that  the  revised  norms  for  the  branch  change  will  be
applicable to UG students admitted from academic year 2025-26 onwards.
In view of the consensus and inputs of the Senate members on e-Senate, the
Chairman Senate approved the proposal.
40.2.12  To consider and approve the creation of a MedTech Centre
Prof. Sushmita Jha, coordinator, IITJ-AIIMSJ Med. Tech Centre presented the
agenda  before  the  e-Senate.  She  shared  that  the  Medical  Technologies
Program was initiated in collaboration with AIIMS Jodhpur in 2020 which has
grown and evolved significantly over the past few years. In its 37th meeting
held on March 20, 2024, the Senate of IIT Jodhpur approved the creation of
the  MedTech  Centre  under  the broad umbrella of  Interdisciplinary  Research
Further,  she  shared  that  the  Healthcare  industry  has  observed  an
unprecedented surge of innovations in diagnostics and therapeutics enabling
significant  improvement  in  the  quality  of  life  and  its  expectancy.  However,
healthcare  challenges have  risen  with an  equal rate  demanding innovations
that can improve quality, improve access, increase efficiency, eliminate waste,
and lower costs. The healthcare needs of India are dynamic, with a significant
urban/  rural  divide,  epidemiological  transition  from  communicable  to  non-
communicable  diseases,  and  increasing  population  and  life  expectancy.
However, essentially Indian patients receive medical technologies that were
originally created for the developed-world patients and are now adapted for
the local needs. This method of introducing novel medical technologies in India
needs  significant  improvement  as  it  cannot  capture  the  enormously  diverse
needs  of  Indian  patients.  The  health  of  any  individual  depends  on  various
factors  including;  individual  genetic  profile,  work  environment,  climate,
region,  community  and  culture.  These  factors  coupled  with  continuous
evolution of novel pathogens pose great challenges to healthcare. On the other
hand,  newer  scientific  discoveries,  range  of  engineering  innovations  and
inventions, rapid growth in technology, availability of large pools of resources,
development  of  expertise  associated  with  enhanced  global  connectivity
present a plethora of opportunities to develop new and innovative techniques,
devices  and  products  through  entrepreneurial  ventures  in  the  healthcare
substantial  market  disruption  in  healthcare,  spawning  wave  after  wave  of
opportunities  for  traditional  healthcare  organizations,  and  new  start-up
companies  alike.  There  is  a  need  for  professionals  with  multi-disciplinary
backgrounds with training in entrepreneurship and business dynamics to meet
the challenges of future transformations of healthcare technology. This cannot
be  done  by  only  medical  practitioners,  engineers  or  management
professionals.  Such  a
joint  centre  would  catalyse  multi-disciplinary
collaborations and the development of need-based cutting-edge technologies.
The detailed proposal is placed at Annexure. In view of the above, Prof. Jha
proposed to create an independent MedTech Center at IIT Jodhpur.
In view of the consensus and inputs of the Senate members on e-Senate, the
Chairman  Senate  recommended  the  proposal  to  place  the  same  before  the
BoG for approval.
40.2.13  Proposal to award the Honoris Causa Degrees
The Chairperson SPGC presented the Proposal before the Senate that based
on  the  Board  of  Governors  in  its  27th  meeting  held  on  October  8,  2021
approved the provision for conferring the Honoris Causa Doctorate Degree to
eminent personalities, similar to other IITs and institutions. Following this, the
Senate, in its 27th meeting on November 9, 2021, deliberated and established
broad  guidelines  for  the  conferment  of  the  Honoris  Causa  Degree  to
distinguished  individuals  who  have  made  exceptional  contributions  to
knowledge,  industry,  R&D,  societal  work,  arts,  sports,  and  IIT  Jodhpur.  To
date,  IIT  Jodhpur  has  awarded  three  Honoris  Causa  degrees  to  eminent
In light of this, the Institute now proposes the following Eminent Personalities
due to their exceptional contributions for the award of Honoris Causa degree
in the upcoming Convocation:
Dr. Vijay Kumar Saraswat, one of India's most
scientists  and  an  accomplished
researcher  with  more  than  four  decades  of
experience  spanning  over  several  fields  and
areas  in  both  basic  and  applied  sciences  of
defence research. Apart from being a scientist,
he  is  a  rare  combination  of  an  innovator,
technologist and visionary.
A Brief Profile of Dr. Vijay Kumar Saraswat is
attached for consideration.
Professor & C. V.
of Science &
Prof.  Ashutosh  Sharma  is  a  distinguished
academician  known  for  his  contributions  to
nanosciences  and  nanotechnology.  He  served
as Secretary of the Department of Science and
Technology  (2015-2021)  and  is  an  Institute
Chair  Professor  at  IIT  Kanpur.  A  recipient  of
the  Shanti  Swarup  Bhatnagar  Award,  he
became  President  of  the  Indian  National
Science  Academy  in  2022.  In  2025,  he  has
been  honored  with  the  Padma  Shri  by  the
A  Brief  Profile  of  Padma  Shri  Dr.  Ashutosh
Sharma is attached for consideration.
Director & Chief
Shri  Vipin  Sondhi  has  also  worked  with  Tata
Steel  and  Shriram  Honda.  With  37  years  of
the  manufacturing  and
engineering sector, 21 of which were spent as
an MD & CEO, he is currently the Chairperson
of the National Board for Quality Promotion at
the  Quality  Council  of  India,  and
Industry) Council for Green Mobility.
A Brief Profile and CV of Mr. Vipin Sondhi are
attached for consideration.
It is further proposed to confer Honoris Causa Doctorate Degree to Eminent
Personalities when they physically visit the campus.
The Senate, after detailed discussion, approved the proposal.
Action: Registrar and DOAA
40.2.14  Proposal to organize 11th Convocation of the Institute in the last week
of June 2025
The  Chairperson  SPGC  presented  the  proposal  to  organize  the  11th
Convocation of the institute in the last week of June 2025. He shared that the
Institute traditionally holds its convocation in October or November each year.
During this time, the campus is bustling with academic activities, and student
hostels are fully occupied. As an institute, it is essential to provide graduating
students with accommodation and other necessary facilities, allowing them to
create  lasting  memories  and  strengthen  their  final  connection  with  the
Institute. The month of June sees minimal academic activity, primarily focused
on admissions, which enables departments, faculty, and staff to manage the
convocation ceremony more efficiently. Further, timely convocation and award
of degree facilitates students as well as the institute in several ways.
The  Senate  approved  the  agenda  to  organize  the  11th  Convocation  of  the
Institute in the last week of June 2025. The degrees, diplomas, and certificates
will be conferred to students who meet their graduation requirements by the
end of the second semester of the academic year, provided they have cleared
all outstanding dues to the Institute.
Furthermore,  the  Chairman  of  the  Senate  suggested  that  the  convocation
ceremony be split into three parts:
1. A centralized convocation for UG students in the forenoon
2. A centralized convocation for PG students in the afternoon, and
3.  A  decentralized  convocation  for  executive  students'  in  the  evening,
organized through their respective departments/schools/centres.
The regular students will be accommodated on campus, while the executive
students  will  stay  off-campus.  All  students  will  be  invited  for  a  common
convocation  dinner.  In  keeping  with  the  regional  culture,  the  institute  will
follow  the  dress  code  as  per  the  10th  convocation,  and  the  convocation
proceedings  will  be  conducted  in  the  Hindi  language,  with  Sanskrit  shlokas
Action: DOAA and Convocation Committee
40.2.15  Proposal for Endowment Award to Support Inbound and Outbound
Dr.  Ankur  Gupta,  Associate  Dean,  International  Connect  (ADIC)  shared  the
agenda  for  the  Endowment  Award  to  Support  Inbound  and  Outbound
-Senate. The detailed proposal was as under:
Endowment Award for Inbound Students
ENDOWMENT  FOR  AN INTERNATIONAL  STUDENT COMING TO IIT JODHPUR
TO PURSUE UG/PG/Ph.D.
It was proposed to seek financial support to set up an endowment to support
student  exchange  from  generous  donors  or  well-wishers  of  the  institute,
esteemed  alumni,  corporate  entities  and  Government  agencies.  The
endowments under this category will support International Students coming
to  IITJ  to  pursue  the  UG/PG/Ph.D.  program.  The  award  for  international
students shall be used only to support the Registration Fee, Tuition Fee,
Hostel Accommodations, Food Expenses, Any other expenses etc. The
selected student will be allowed to pursue UG/PG/Ph.D. program as per the
norms of the institute. The proposed models are outlined below:
Table: Semester Exchange, Joint/Dual Degree International Program Support
Endowment Award Per
Student Per Month
UG-   Upto INR 15,000/-
PG-   Upto INR 20,000/-
Ph.D.- Upto INR 50,000/-
The operational guidelines for the proposed model are:
1.  The  selection  of  students  will  be  made  by  the  Office  of  International
Relations,  and  the  disbursement  of  the  amount  will  be  managed  by  the
Office of Students.
2.  The  selection  of  the  student  shall  be  based  on  the  parameters  such  as
financial background, type or quality of
research, projects and any other additional achievements etc.
Further, the roles of different offices are outlined below as:
Sr. No.  Office
The  Office  of  IR  will  seek  endowment
support in coordination with the Office of DORA.
The Office will select the student and will
Office of DORA  1.
The Office will run an active campaign for
The Office will disburse the amount of the
seeking endowment support.
The Office will perform all tasks associated
with signing the MoU and donor with the approval
of the competent authority.
award to the selected student.
The Office will maintain all records related
generation  of  the  annual  Utilization  Certificate
(UC) in consultation with DORA Office.
fund  disbursal,  accrued
B. Endowment Award for Outbound Students
ENDOWMENT  FOR  SEMESTER  EXCHANGE,  JOINT/DUAL/DOUBLE  DEGREE
It is proposed to seek financial support to set up an endowment to support
student  exchange  from  generous  donors  or  well-wishers  of  the  institute,
esteemed  alumni,  corporate  entities  and  Government  agencies.  The
endowments under this category will support IITJ students who are travelling
to pursue UG/PG/Ph.D. program at international level. The award for Semester
Exchange, Joint/Dual Degree International Program shall be used to support
the international travel expenditure, visa processing etc. The selected
student will be allowed to pursue Semester Exchange, Joint/Dual Degree as
per the norms of the institute guidelines as specified in the agreement. The
proposed models are outlined below;
Table: Semester Exchange, Joint/Dual Degree International Program Support
Endowment Award Per Student per
Upto INR 1,50,000/-
1.  Air tickets for travel should be booked only from these agencies: 1) Ashoka Travels,
2) IRCTC, and 3) Balmer Lawrie. In case of any changes, the latest applicable Govt.
guidelines will be followed.
2.  Travel support from IITJ will be provided in the form of reimbursement after travel.
Advance support towards travel will not be provided.
3.  IIT Jodhpur will provide travel support up to INR 1.5 lakhs. This travel support can
cover return economy airfare, visa processing fee etc. up to a maximum of
lakhs  (per  year).  IIT Jodhpur  will provide travel support  for  students  enrolled  in
only those programs where travel support is not provided/partially provided.
4.  Before  booking  the  tickets,  students  will  have  to  submit  the  completed  Travel
Approval From (Form No. Student/IRO-01) with relevant approvals to the office of
international relations. After their return from the Partner Institution, students will
be required to complete the Travel Application Form and submit the same in the
office of international relations.
5.  The  Travel  Approval  Form  should  be  submitted  to  the  office  of  international
relations at least two weeks in advance of the date of travel. Post-facto approvals
for travel may not be permitted.
6.  Students should submit the reimbursement claim to the office of Students no later
than 15 days after completion of the travel.
7.  Travel  reimbursement  will  only  be  processed  on  the  submission  of  the  relevant
documents in original.
8.  The selection of the student shall be based on the academic performance,
financial  background,  type  or  quality  of  research  and  projects  and  any  other
additional achievements etc. during his/her tenure at IIT Jodhpur.
9.  The selection of students will be made by the Office of International Relations, and
the disbursement of the amount will be managed by the Office of Students.
10.  Students  can  claim  reimbursement  only  for  travel  to  and  from  the  Partner
Institution undertaken after the approval date of the Director.
The roles of different offices are outlined below as:
Office of DORA
Office of Student
1.  The  Office  of  IR  will  seek  endowment  support  in
coordination with the Office of DORA.
2.  The Office will select the student and will provide
financial support as per requirement.
1.  The  Office  will  run  an  active  campaign  seeking
2.  The  Office  will  perform  all  tasks  associated  with
signing  the  MoU  and  donor  with  the  approval  of
the competent authority.
1.  The Office will disburse the amount of the award
to the selected student.
2.  The Office will maintain all records related to fund
disbursal, accrued interest  and generation of the
annual  Utilization  Certificate (UC)  in  consultation
with DORA Office.
Note: Any operational difficulties will be resolved and regulated in consultation
with the Director, IIT Jodhpur.
In view of the consensus and inputs of the Senate members on e-Senate, the
Chairman Senate recommended the proposal  to  place  the  same before the
Finance Committee and BoG for approval.
Action: ADIC and Registrar
40.2.16  Proposal for the establishment of Manekshaw Centre of Excellence for
National Security Studies and Research (MCOENSSR) at IIT Jodhpur
Prof.  Sampat  Raj  Vadera,  Advisor  to  the  Director  presented  the  proposal
before  the  Senate  to  establish  the  Manekshaw  Centre  of  Excellence  for
National Security Studies and Research (MCOENSSR) with IIT Jodhpur as one
of the founding Institutes.
Prof.  Vadera  shared  with  the  Senate  members  that  the  MCOENSSR  is
envisioned as a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to foster collaboration between
Academia, Government, and Industry in addressing critical national security
challenges. This initiative aims to contribute to the development of a "Security
Industrial  Complex"  advancing  the  vision  of  "Atmanirbhar  Bharat."  The
with a thrust on productization of research along with a unique mandate to
have operational exposure in the projects of national importance (classified),
develop indigenous critical technologies and collaborate with private defence
manufacturers as and when required to achieve higher technology readiness
level. The Leading academic institutions such as IIT Guwahati, IIIT Delhi, IIT
Kanpur,  IIT  Jodhpur,  and  IIT  Dharwad,  in  collaboration  with  the  Indian  tri-
services,  will  play  a  crucial  role  in  advancing  research  and  innovation  in
defense  technology  and  national  security.  Each  participating  institution  will
focus on specialized defense domains.
Role  and  Responsibilities  of  IIT  Jodhpur:  IIT  Jodhpur  will  serve  as  the
Centre  of  Excellence  in  Engine  Design,  UAVs/RPAs,  and  Directed  Energy
Weapons.  The  institute  will  provide  essential  infrastructure,  technical
expertise,  and  administrative  support.  Additionally,  IIT  Jodhpur  will  work
jointly with other institutions to identify and prioritize research areas critical
to national  security,  share resources, data,  and knowledge, and  collaborate
on securing funding from both government and private sectors to achieve the
objectives of the MCOENSSR.
The  proposed  center  would  collaborate  with  key  institutes,  as
mentioned above, in the following technology and/or administrative
areas, as outlined below:
1.  Under Research and Development:
a.  Research, innovation, productization, manufacturing and research- based
consulting/operations (classified and non-classified).
b.  Create a new age Security Industrial Complex/Ecosystem to contribute to
c.  Address  specific  problem  statements  from  the  MoD,  DRDO,  ADB,  Armed
Forces,  DPSUs,  ISRO,  CAPFs,  Security  and  Law-Enforcement  Agencies,
d.  Be the single window communication and bridge between the Armed Forces
and academia/research bodies with an objective to research, productization
and scalability with focus on national security.
e.  Collaborate with foreign institutes, start-ups, industrial partners to achieve
higher  technology  readiness  level  when  and  if  required  catering  the
requirements of the Indian Armed Forces and Security Establishments.
2. Under Capacity building Collaboration
a.  It will offer specially curated courses (Certificate / MDP / Master / Ph.D.)
exclusive  for  the  personnel  from  the  Defence,  Security  Forces  and  Law-
Enforcement Agencies as per New Education Policy (NEP) with a focus on
new-age warfare and emerging technologies.
b.  It  will  offer  re-employment  courses  for  the  Officers,  JCOs,  ORs  and
Agniveers to take care of their smooth transition from forces to industries.
c.  It will arrange a number of dialogue series, workshops, seminars, ideathons
with  a  focus  on  next-gen  National  Security  challenges  and  cutting-edge
Technology Absorption in Defence.
d.  It  will  arrange  a  yearly  conference  on  National  Security  and  new-age
Asymmetric Hybrid Non Contact Warfare.
The Senate appreciated the agenda and recommended the same to place it
before the BoG for approval.
40.2.17  Transfer of Ph.D. Students of the Regular Faculty Members of Other
Institutes Joining IIT Jodhpur
The Chairperson SPGC presented the agenda in the e-Senate. He briefed the
members that the Institute aims to expand its student and faculty base and
has recently completed one cycle of faculty recruitment, with the next cycle
set to begin in a couple of weeks.
A  significant  number  of  faculty  members  from  other  IITs  are  joining  IIT
Jodhpur as regular faculty and have requested to transfer their current Ph.D.
students  from  their  previous  institutions.  To  ensure  a  smooth  transition  for
both  the  faculty  members  and  their  students,  allowing  continued  guidance
without academic disruption, the following policy is proposed:
previous  institution.  The  faculty  member  must  submit  a  No-Objection
Certificate (NOC) from the previous institution confirming no objection
to transferring the students to IIT Jodhpur.
(b)  The  concerned  department/academic  unit  must  constitute  a  standing
committee with faculty members from allied areas to interact/interview
students. All such students must satisfy the minimum eligibility criteria
of Ph.D. admission as described in the Regulations.
(c)  After  the  interview,  the  Chairman  of  the  Senate  will  approve  the
registered, they will be eligible to receive the Ph.D. degree according to