Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Research and Development
Advt. No.: IITJ/R&D(Advt.)/2024-25/064
09 December 2024
Applications  are  invited  from  the  citizen  of  India  for  filling  up  the  following  temporary
position in the Sponsored Research Project at this Institute. The position is purely temporary, initially
for a period of 01 Year, and same extendable but co-terminus with the duration of the project, on a
contractual basis with consolidated pay. The requisite qualification, experience and  other details are
Development  and  testing  of  a  bioinspired  flapping  wing
model  with  morphing  capability  for  aerial  and  aquatic
3.  Name of the Project Investigator   Dr. Nipun Arora
4.  Duration for initial appointment
5.  Name of the Post
7.  Consolidate Pay
Junior Research Fellow
Rs. 37,000/-+HRA @18%
8.  Minimum  Qualification
B.  Tech/M.  Tech/M.S./M.E.
Thermofluids/Aerospace/Applied  Mechanics  or  related
field).  Candidate  with  B.  Tech  degree  only  must  have  a
valid GATE score.
•  Strong foundation in engineering mathematics, fluid
mechanics, and aerodynamics
•  Proficiency in experimental fluid mechanics
•  Practical experience with wind and water tunnel testing
•  Expertise in flow visualization techniques (PIV,
shadowgraphy, Schlieren, etc.)
•  Solid understanding of engineering mathematics, fluid
mechanics, and aerodynamics.
•  Proficiency in numerical methods with a strong grasp of
CFD and FEM principles.
•  Practical experience with ANSYS/COMSOL and
OpenFOAM or similar libraries.
•  Knowledge of MATLAB and Python.
•  Preference will be given to candidates with strong
programming skills in C/C++ and expertise in parallel
•  Conduct experiments on a flapping wing setup in wind
and water tunnels.
•  Measure aerodynamic and hydrodynamic forces, thrust,
and power using force/torque sensors.
•  Perform flow visualization using a PIV-DIC setup to
analyze vortex patterns.
•  Quantify structural deformation due to fluid-structure
•  Develop and validate scaling laws for various wing
shapes and designs.
•  Perform computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and fluid-
structure interaction (FSI) simulations of the flapping
•  Analyze the forces and thrust generated by the flapping
wing model in air and water environments.
•  Review and adapt existing reduced-order models
(ROMs) for flapping aerodynamics from the literature.
•  Apply ROMs to model the wing's dynamics and
This  study  explores  bioinspired  locomotion  for  next-
generation  unmanned  vehicles.  A  morphing  wing  model
will  be  fabricated  and  tested  for  aerodynamic  and
hydrodynamic  performance  in  both  wind  and  water
tunnels. Experiments using force/torque sensors and PIV
flow  visualization  will  elucidate  vortex  dynamics,  while
CFD  simulations  and  reduced-order  models  will  predict
thrust and power to support the experiments. This project
requires  2  JRFs  –  one  for  conducting  experiments  and
another for numerical investigation.
Age  will  be  calculated  on  the  closing  date  of  the  online
submission  of  the  application.  Relaxation  in  age  for  the
category  candidates  only  would  be  admissible  as  per
Central Government Rules. Also kindly enclose the Caste
Certificate along with the application.
10.  Brief description of Project
11.  Maximum Age
12.  Age Bar
The candidates possessing the requisite qualification and experience should apply through the
ONLINE process up to 23 December 2024.
It  is  mandatory  to  send  the  soft  copy  of  the  application  with  all  relevant  documents  to
recruitment_rnd@iitj.ac.in (Please mention the advertisement number in the subject line of the email).
Without documents, your application will not be considered. There is no need to send the hard copy.
General Instructions to Applicant(s)
1.  The  post(s)  is  purely  temporary  and  contractual  for  a  period  of  01  Year  and  extension  based  on
satisfactory performance, but co-terminus with the duration of the project
2.  Application,  which  is  incomplete,  not  in  prescribed  format,  without  photograph  or  unsigned  will  be
3.  Certificate in  support  of  experience  should be in  proper  format  i.e.  it  should  be  on  the  organizations
letter  head,  bear  the  date  of  issue,  specific  period  of  work,  name  and  designation  of  the  issuing
authority along with his signature.
Institute reserves the right to:
a. Fix, modify or revise the eligibility conditions, age and selection criteria as per its requirements, at
b. Fill up the post, not to fill up the post or cancel the advertisement in whole or partly without
assigning any reason.
c. Place a reasonable limit on the total number of candidates to be called for the Written Test and/or
Skill Test, Interview.
5.  The  Institute  shall  verify  the  antecedents  or  documents  submitted  by  a  candidate  at  the  time  of
appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents submitted by
the  candidates  are  fake  or  the  candidate  has  a  clandestine  antecedents/background  and  has
suppressed the said information, then his/her services shall be terminated.
6.  Higher initial pay may be given to exceptionally qualified/deserving candidate.
7.  No TA/DA shall be paid to the candidates for attending the interview.
8.   No correspondence will be entertained from candidates regarding interview and reasons for not being
called for interview.
9.  Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
10.  No interim correspondence will be entertained.
11.  No need to send hard copy.
Research & Development