Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Office of Research and Development
Advt. No.: IITJ/R&D(Advt.)/2024-25/067
12 December 2024
Applications  are  invited  from  the  citizen  of  India  for  filling  up  the  following  temporary
position in the Sponsored Research Project at this Institute. The position is purely temporary, initially
for a period of 01 Year, and same extendable but co-terminus with the duration of the project, on a
contractual basis with consolidated pay. The requisite qualification, experience and  other details are
3.  Name of the Project Investigator
Development  of  Concealed  Object  Detection  and
Prof. Gaurav Bhatnagar
4.  Duration for initial appointment
06 Months (extendable up to another one year)
5.  Name of the Post
7.  Consolidate Pay
Research Associate – I
8.  Minimum  Qualification
10.  Brief description of Project
11.  Maximum Age
Ph  D/MS  or  equivalent  degree  or  having  3-years  of
research  and  teaching  experience  after  ME/M.Tech.  with
at  least  one  research  paper  in  Science  Citation  Indexed
(SCI)  journal  in  the  field  of  Computer  Vision  and  Image
Candidate needs to have research experience in Computer
Vision and Image Processing with quality publications.
• To compile a Terahertz imaging dataset that includes
concealed objects with diverse shapes, sizes, and
• To develop algorithm for concealed weapon detection utilizing
• To develop efficient classification techniques for concealed
To  design  and  develop  protocols  for  concealed  weapon
detection utilizing Tera-hertz imaging.
12.  Age Bar
Age  will  be  calculated  on  the  closing  date  of  the  online
submission  of  the  application.  Relaxation  in  age  for  the
category  candidates  only  would  be  admissible  as  per
Central Government Rules. Also kindly enclose the Caste
Certificate along with the application.
The candidates possessing the requisite qualification and experience should apply through the
ONLINE process up to 26 December 2024.
It  is  mandatory  to  send  the  soft  copy  of  the  application  with  all  relevant  documents  to
recruitment_rnd@iitj.ac.in (Please mention the advertisement number in the subject line of the email).
Without documents, your application will not be considered. There is no need to send the hard copy.
General Instructions to Applicant(s)
1.  The  post(s)  is  purely  temporary  and  contractual  for  a  period  of  06  Months  and  extension  based  on
satisfactory performance, but co-terminus with the duration of the project
2.  Application,  which  is  incomplete,  not  in  prescribed  format,  without  photograph  or  unsigned  will  be
3.  Certificate in  support  of  experience  should be in  proper  format  i.e.  it  should  be  on  the  organizations
letter  head,  bear  the  date  of  issue,  specific  period  of  work,  name  and  designation  of  the  issuing
authority along with his signature.
Institute reserves the right to:
a. Fix, modify or revise the eligibility conditions, age and selection criteria as per its requirements, at
b. Fill up the post, not to fill up the post or cancel the advertisement in whole or partly without
assigning any reason.
c. Place a reasonable limit on the total number of candidates to be called for the Written Test and/or
Skill Test, Interview.
5.  The  Institute  shall  verify  the  antecedents  or  documents  submitted  by  a  candidate  at  the  time  of
appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents submitted by
the  candidates  are  fake  or  the  candidate  has  a  clandestine  antecedents/background  and  has
suppressed the said information, then his/her services shall be terminated.
6.  Higher initial pay may be given to exceptionally qualified/deserving candidate.
7.  No TA/DA shall be paid to the candidates for attending the interview.
8.   No correspondence will be entertained from candidates regarding interview and reasons for not being
called for interview.
9.  Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
10.  No interim correspondence will be entertained.
11.  No need to send hard copy.
Research & Development