INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Index of Tender documents
Tender Notice with Performa for Earnest Money Deposit Declaration
Terms & condition including IITJ/CPWD Form 7/8
6 - 6
Proforma of schedules A, B, C, D, E & F
Bank Guarantee Bond
Special Condition of contract                                                                                          34-38
Scope of work                                                                                                                      41-41
Schedule of Quantities
Price Bid                                                                                                                                45-45
This Tender document contains pages One to Forty five only.
NIT Amounting to Rs.6,51,859.00/- (Rupees Six lacs fifty one thousand eight hundred fifty nine only)
Superintending  Engineer,  Indian  Institute  of  Technology  Jodhpur  invites  online  Percentage  Rate  Tender  from
Firms/ Contractors for the following work:
NOTICE INVITING E-TENDERS
1. NIT No
2. Name of Work
3. Sub Head
4. Estimated cost
5. Earnest Money
6. Period of completion :             25 Days
7. Last time & date of submission of bid:   19/03/2026 up to 3:00 pm (on line)
Partition and electrical works in Bays–2, 3, 4 of W-17 Berm
The bid forms and other details can be obtained from the website www.iitj.ac.in or www.e-procure.gov.in free of cost.
For more clarification you may visit on above website.
Copy to: -
Executive Engineer (Civil)
Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil-II)/Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical-I)
Junior Engineer (Civil-III)/Junior Engineer (Electrical-I)
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR BIDDERS FOR e-TENDERING (Tender Notice)
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur invites online Percentage Rate Tender on two bid systems through CPP
Portal from Firms/ Contractors for the following work:
Name of Work
Name  of  work:  -  Partition
and  electrical  works  in
Bays–2, 3, 4 of W-17 Berm
Sub Head: - Composite
Work (Civil and Electrical)
Last date and time of submission of financial & Technical bid  : -    19/03/2026 upto 3:00 pm (on line)
Date and time of opening of Online Technical bid
Price/Financial bids of eligible bidders as per NIT shall be opened at a later date after scrutiny of Technical
:-     20/03 /2026 at 3:00 pm
1.  The successful bidders shall be required to submit a performance guarantee of 5% of the tendered amount
in the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of issue of
letter of intent before award of work. In case the contractor is failed to deposit the performance guarantee
within the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited and the tender shall be treated as void. The
performance guarantee shall be initially valid up to the stipulated date of completion plus 06 months beyond.
2.  Contractors who fulfill the following requirements shall be eligible to apply. Joint ventures are not accepted.
Firms/contractors  must  have  completed  similar  works  satisfactorily  under  Government  organization/
Public Sector Undertaking / Autonomous bodies only.
i.   One similar Composite  work (Civil and Electrical) amounting to Rs. 5,21,487.00
Two similar Composite  work (Civil and Electrical) and each single work amounting to Rs.3,91,115.00
Three similar Composite  work (Civil and Electrical) and each single work amounting to Rs. 2,60,743.00
Firms/Contractors must have satisfactorily completed the Works of the value as defined above
during last 7 years ending on date 31.01.2026
Earnest money of Rs. 13,037.00 in the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts or through
RTGS / NEFT of a schedule bank drawn in favour of Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur or online payment
as  per details given in NIT. No relaxation in EMD will be allowed for  MSME and MSEs as per
CPWD works manual.
3.  The intending bidder must read the terms and conditions of IITJ/CPWD-6 carefully. He should only submit
his bid if he considers himself eligible and he is in possession of all the documents required.
Information and Instructions for bidders posted on website shall form part of bid document.
4.  No exemption for submission of EMD/experience of work shall be allowed for MSME.
6.  The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items to
be executed and the  set of terms and conditions of the  contract to be complied with and other necessary
documents can be seen and downloaded from website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app in free of cost.
7.  Completion certificates issued by an officer not below the rank of Executive Engineer or equivalent level
shall be considered.
●  Similar work means “Composite work (Civil and Electrical)”.
8.  The value of executed work shall be brought to current costing level by enhancing the actual value of work
at simple rate of 7% per annum calculated from the date of completion to last date of submission of financial
IIT  Jodhpur  is  committed  to  follow  the  principle  of  transparency,  equity  and  competitiveness  in  public
procurement. Before submission of bid each bid should sign integrity pact at respective places and submit
the bid, if duly signed integrity pact is not submitted by bidder such bid shall not be considered.
10.  Those contractors not registered on CPP Portal are required to get registered beforehand. If needed they can
be imparted training on online bidding process as per details available on the website
11.  The intending bidder must have valid class-III digital signature to submit the bid.
12.  On opening date, the contractor can login and see the bid opening process. After opening the bids he will
receive the competitor bid sheets.
13.  Contractor can upload documents in the form of JPG format and PDF format.
14.  Contractor must ensure to quote rate of each item, while selecting any of the cells a warning appears that if
any cell is left blank the same shall be treated as “0”.Therefore, if any cell is left blank and no rate is quoted
by the bidder, rate of such item shall be treated as “0” (ZERO).
15.  The department reserves the right to reject any prospective application without assigning any reason and to
restrict the list of qualified contractors to any number deemed suitable by it, if too many bids are received
satisfying the laid down criterion.
16.  In e-Tendering intending bidder can quote his rates in figures only. The rates in words, amount of each item
and total is generated automatically. Therefore, the  rate  quoted by the  bidder in figures is to be taken as
17.  The bid can only be submitted after uploading the mandatory scanned documents such as Demand Draft or
Fixed Deposit Receipts or through RTGS / NEFT towards Tender Fee and EMD (if applicable) in favour of
Director, I.I.T. Jodhpur or to be deposited with http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app/ NEFT facility.
For online payment through RTGS/NEFT IIT Jodhpur Bank details are as below:
Name of Bank A/C
Name of Bank & Branch
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Canara Bank & IIT Jodhpur.
18.  The EMD in original shall be deposited by the lowest tenderer within a week after opening of financial bid
failing which the tender shall be rejected.
19.  Certificate of work experience and other documents as specified in the notice inviting tender shall be scanned
and uploaded to the e-Tendering website within the period of bid submission. However, certified / original
copy of all the scanned and uploaded documents as specified in web notice may be verified by the institute.
20.  The bid submitted shall become invalid if:
i.  The  bidder  does  not  upload  all  the  documents  (including  GST  registration)  as  stipulated  in  the  bid
ii.  The lowest bidder does not deposit original EMD declaration within a week of opening of tender.
iii.  In the event of tender being submitted by a firm, it must be signed separately by each partner thereof or
in the event of the absence of any partner, it must be signed on his behalf by a person holding a power
of attorney authorizing him to do so, such power of attorney to be produced with the tender, and it must
disclose that the firm is duly registered under the Indian Partnership Act 1932, above not submitted.
21.  Bid validity shall be 90 days after opening of bids.
22.  List of Documents to be scanned and uploaded within the period of bid submission:
i.  Affidavit (on Rs. 10 non-judicial stamp with notarized) regarding establishment of proprietorship firm/
partnership deed/ letter of incorporation for  private  ltd/ ltd firm with written power of attorney (in
case of bidder is owner, not required) of authorized signatory.
ii.  Proof of deposit of Tender Fee and EMD.
iii.  Attested copy of work experience certificate.
iv.  Attested copy of valid PAN, GSTIN Registration
v.  Attested copy of up to date filed return of GST.
vi.  Acceptance to execute Integrity Pact.
vii.  FORM “F” (Duly filled with all relevant required details).
viii.  Undertaking on Firm’s Letter Head Regarding blacklist.
ix.  List of Govt. Organization as per Annexure-II
xi.  Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 1.2 of IITJ/CPWD -6 FOR e-TENDERING.
1. Affidavit shall be purchased /notarized on or after NIT published date but on or before last date of
submission of NIT.
2. Affidavit must have “NIT/tender reference number” and “Name of work” and shall be used once for
each fresh tender as per following.
3.  No  back  dated  affidavit  shall  be  entertained  and  non-compliance  of  point  (i)  &  (ii)  shall  lead  to
rejection of the tender.
I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar works(s) has/have not been got executed through
another  contractor  on  back-to-back  basis.  Further  that,  if  such  a  violation  comes  to  the  notice  of
Department,  then  I/we  shall  be  debarred  for  tendering  in  IITJ  in  future  forever.  Also,  if  such  a
violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall
be free to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee. (Scanned copy
to be uploaded at the time of submission of bid).
STRUCTURE & ORGANISATION
1.  Name & Address of the bidder
2.  Telephone no./ Phone no./ Fax no.
4.  Contact Person No.
5.  GST No.
6.  PAN No.
7.  Tender Fee (UTR No.)
(In case of on-line payment of Tender Fee)
8.  EMD (UTR No.)
(In case of on-line payment of Tender Fee)
9.  Legal status of the bidder (attach copies of original document defining the legal status)
a.  An Individual
b.  A proprietary firm
c.  A firm in partnership
d.  A limited company or corporation
5.   Designation of individuals authorized to act for the organization…………………………………………….
6.  Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever abandoned the awarded work
before its completion?  If so, give name of the project and reasons for abandonment…………………………
7.  Has the bidder or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever been debarred/ blacklisted for
8.  Has the bidder, or any constituent partner in case of partnership firm, ever been convicted by the court of
Signature of Bidder/Tenderer
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
NH-62 NAGAUR ROAD KARWAR JODHPUR
Notice Inviting Tender
Terms & Conditions
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur in is in the process of purchasing following item(s) as per details as
given as under.
Details of the item
As per Tender Notice
Earnest  Money  Deposit  to
As per Tender Notice
As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app.  Aspiring  Bidders  who  have  not  enrolled  /  registered  in  e-procurement
should enroll / register before participating through the website http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . The portal
enrolment is free of cost. Bidders are advised to go through instructions provided at ‘Instructions for online Bid
Tenderers can access tender documents on the website (For searching in the NIC site, kindly go to Tender Search
option  and  type  ‘IIT’.  Thereafter,  Click  on  “GO”  button  to  view  all  IIT  Jodhpur  tenders).  Select  the  appropriate
tender and fill them with all relevant information and submit the completed tender document online on the website
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app as per the schedule given in the next page.
No manual bid will be accepted. All quotes (both Technical and Financial should be submitted in the E-procurement
Name of  Organization
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Tender Category (Services/Goods/works)
Type/Form of Contract (Work/Supply/
Product Category (Civil Works/Electrical
Works/Fleet Management/ Computer Systems)
Source of Fund (Institute/Project)
Institute NR Budget
Is Multi Currency Allowed
Date of Issue/Publishing
Document Download/Sale Start Date
Document Download/Sale End Date
Date for Pre-Bid Conference
Venue of Pre-Bid Conference
Last Date and Time for Uploading of Bids
As per Tender Notice
Date and Time of Opening of Technical Bids
As per Tender Notice
In the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts or
through RTGS / NEFT
IIT Jodhpur Bank details are as under:
Name of the Bank A/C   : Director IIT Jodhpur
Canara Bank A/C No.    : 3399101000631
Name of the Bank           : Canara Bank  IIT Jodhpur,
IFSC Code                        : CNRB0003399
MICR Code                       : 342015501
No. of Covers (1/2/3/4)
02 (Technical and Financial)
Bid Validity days
Address for Communication
90 days (From the date of opening of bids)
Executive Engineer, Office of Infrastructure, W-1 Berm, IIT
Instructions for Online Bid Submission:
As per the directives of Department of Expenditure, this tender document has been published on the Central Public
Procurement Portal (URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app). The bidders are required to submit soft copies of
their bids electronically on the CPP Portal, using valid Digital Signature Certificates. The instructions given below
are  meant  to  assist  the  bidders  in  registering  on  the  CPP  Portal,  prepare  their  bids  in  accordance  with  the
requirements and submitting their bids online on the CPP Portal.
More information useful for submitting online bids on the CPP Portal may be obtained at:
1)  Bidders  are  required  to  enroll  on  the  e-Procurement  module  of  the  Central  Public  Procurement  Portal
(URL:http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app) by clicking on the  link “Click here  to Enroll”. Enrolment on
the CPP Portal is free of charge.
2)  As part of the enrolment process, the bidders will be required to choose a unique username and assign a
password for their accounts.
3)  Bidders  are  advised  to  register  their  valid  email  address  and  mobile  numbers  as  part  of  the  registration
process. These would be used for any communication from the CPP Portal.
4)  Upon enrolment, the bidders will be required to register their valid Digital Signature Certificate  (Class II or
Class III Certificates with signing key usage) issued by any Certifying Authority recognized by CCA India
(e.g. Sify / TCS / nCode / eMudhra etc.), with their profile.
5)  Only one valid DSC should be registered by a bidder. Please note that the bidders are responsible to ensure
that they do not lend their DSCs to others which may lead to misuse.
6)  Bidder  then  logs  in  to  the  site  through  the  secured  log-in  by  entering  their  userID  /  password  and  the
password of the DSC / eToken.
SEARCHING FOR TENDER DOCUMENTS
1)  There  are  various  search  options  built  in  the  CPP  Portal,  to  facilitate  bidders  to  search  active  tenders  by
several parameters. These parameters could include Tender ID, organization name, location, date, value, etc.
There is also an option of advanced search for tenders, wherein the bidders may combine a number of search
parameters such as organization name, form of contract, location, date, other keywords etc. to search for a
tender published on the CPP Portal.
2)  Once  the  bidders  have  selected  the  tenders  they  are  interested  in,  they  may  download  the  required
documents  /  tender  schedules.  These  tenders  can  be  moved  to  the  respective  ‘My  Tenders’  folder.  This
would enable the CPP Portal to intimate the bidders through SMS / e-mail in case there is any corrigendum
issued to the tender document.
3)  The bidder should make a note of the unique Tender ID assigned to each tender, in case they want to obtain
any clarification / help from the Helpdesk.
PREPARATION OF BIDS
Bidder should take into account any corrigendum published on the tender document before submitting their
Please go through the tender advertisement and the tender document carefully to understand the documents
required to be submitted as part of the bid. Please note the number of covers in which the bid documents
have to be submitted, the number of documents - including the names and content of each of the document
that need to be submitted. Any deviations from these may lead to rejection of the bid.
Bidder, in advance, should get ready the bid documents to be submitted as indicated in the tender document
/ schedule and generally, they can be in PDF / XLS / RAR / DWF formats. Bid documents may be scanned
with 100 dpi with black and white option.
To avoid the time and effort required in uploading the same set of standard documents which are required
to be submitted as a part of every bid, a provision of uploading such standard documents (e.g. PAN card
copy, annual reports, auditor certificates etc.) has been provided to the bidders. Bidders can use “My Space”
area available to them to upload such documents. These documents may be directly submitted from the “My
Space” area while submitting a bid, and need not be uploaded again and again. This will lead to a reduction
in the time required for bid submission process.
SUBMISSION OF BIDS
Bidder should log into the site well in advance for bid submission so that he/she upload the bid in time i.e.
on or before the bid submission time. Bidder will be responsible for any delay due to other issues.
The bidder has to digitally sign and upload the required bid documents one by one as indicated in the tender
Bidder has to select the payment option as “on-line” to pay the tender fee / EMD as applicable and enter
details of the instrument. Whenever, EMD / Tender fees are sought, bidders need to pay the tender fee and
EMD separately on-line through RTGS or scan copy of original demand draft (Refer to Schedule, Page No.2).
A standard BoQ format has been provided with the tender document to be filled by all the bidders. Bidders
are requested to note that they should necessarily submit their financial bids in the format provided and no
other format is acceptable. Bidders are required to download the BoQ file, open it and complete the white
coloured  (unprotected)  cells  with  their  respective  financial  quotes  and  other  details  (such  as  name  of  the
bidder). No other cells should be changed. Once the details have been completed, the bidder should save it
and submit it online, without changing the filename. If the BoQ file is found to be modified by the bidder,
the bid will be rejected.
The server time (which is displayed on the bidders’ dashboard) will be considered as the standard time for
referencing the deadlines for submission of the bids by the bidders, opening of bids etc. The bidders should
follow this time during bid submission.
All the documents being submitted by the bidders would be encrypted using PKI encryption techniques to
ensure the secrecy of the data. The data entered cannot be viewed by unauthorized persons until the time of
bid opening. The confidentiality of the bids is maintained using the secured Socket Layer 128 bit encryption
technology. Data storage encryption of sensitive fields is done.
The  uploaded  tender  documents  become  readable  only  after  the  tender  opening  by  the  authorized  bid
Upon the successful and timely submission of bids, the portal will give a successful bid submission message
& a bid summary will be displayed with the bid no. and the date & time of submission of the bid with all
other relevant details.
Kindly add scanned PDF of all relevant documents in a single PDF file of compliance sheet.
ASSISTANCE TO BIDDERS
Any  queries  relating  to  the  tender  document  and  the  terms  and  conditions  contained  therein  should  be
addressed to the Tender Inviting Authority for a tender or the relevant contact person indicated in the tender.
Any queries relating to the process of online bid submission or queries relating to CPP Portal in general may
be directed to the 24x7 CPP Portal Helpdesk. The contact number for the helpdesk is 1800 233 7315.
General Instructions to the Bidders
The tenders will be received online through portal http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . In the Technical
Bids, the bidders are required to upload all the documents in .pdf format.
Possession of a Valid Class II/III Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) in the form of smart card/e-token in the
company's name is a prerequisite for registration and participating in the bid submission activities through
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app . Digital Signature Certificates can be obtained from the authorized
certifying  agencies,  details  of  which  are  available  in  the  web  site  https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app
under the link “Information about DSC”.
Tenderer  are  advised  to  follow  the  instructions  provided  in  the  ‘Instructions  to  the  Tenderer  for  the  e-
submission  of  the  bids  online  through  the  Central  Public  Procurement  Portal  for  e  Procurement  at
Tenders have been invited on the basis of standard Forms 7/8 and General Conditions of contract for the work
in Central Public Works Department (CPWD). However, in the contact of IIT Jodhpur, the following terms may
be read as:
As per Standard Forms
To be read as
President of India
Government of India
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Central Public Works Departments
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Chief Engineer, CPWD
Dean of Infrastructure Planning, IIT Jodhpur
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Office of Infrastructure Engineering.
Terms & Conditions Details
Due date: The tender has to be submitted online before the due date. The offers received after the due date and
time will not be considered. No manual bids will be considered.
Preparation of Bids: The offer/bid should be submitted in two bid systems (i.e.) Technical bid and financial
bid. The technical bid should consist of all technical details along with commercial terms and conditions.
Financial bid should indicate item wise price for the items mentioned in the technical bid in the given format i.e
Financial Bids to be submitted in Excel.
The Technical bid and the financial bid should be submitted online.
EMD (if applicable): As per NIT
Refund of EMD: As per NIT
Opening of the tender: As per Tender Notice, NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Acceptance/ Rejection of bids: The Committee reserves the right to reject any or all offers without assigning
Pre-qualification criteria: Mentioned in Tender notice
Performance Security: Mentioned in Tender notice
Force Majeure: As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Risk & Cost Clause: As per IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Delivery and Documents: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Delayed delivery: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Prices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Progress of Work: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Inspection and Tests: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Resolution of Disputes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Supplier Integrity: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Training: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Installation & Demonstration: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Incidental services: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Defect liability Period: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Governing Language: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Applicable Law: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Notices: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Taxes: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Termination for Default: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
28.  Disputes and Jurisdiction: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
Completion certificate: As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7/8
S. No.  Technical Bid Requirement As per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD form 7
Affidavit as per Notice Inviting Tender Condition 22 (i) page 5 of NIT.
Proof of deposit of Tender Fee and EMD.
Attested copy of work experience certificate.
Attested copy of valid PAN, GSTIN Registration.
Attested copy of up to date filed return of GST.
Acceptance to execute Integrity Pact.
FORM “F” (Duly filled with all relevant required details).
Undertaking on Firm’s Letter Head Regarding blacklist.
List of Govt. Organization as per Annexure-II
Affidavit  as  per  Notice  Inviting  Tender  Condition  1.2  of  IITJ/CPWD  -6  FOR  e-
I have also enclosed all relevant documents in support of my claims, (as above) in the following pages.
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No. : ____________________________
List of Govt. Organization/ Deptt.
List  of  Government  organization/  Public  Sector  Undertaking  /  Autonomous  bodies  for  whom  the  Bidder  has
undertaken such work as per Tender Notice & NIT & IITJ/CPWD -7/8
Name of the organization
Name of Contact Person
Signature of Bidder
Organization Name: __________________________
Contact No. : ____________________________
IITJ/CPWD -6 FOR e-TENDERING
Percentage rate tenders are invited from contractors/firms engaged in the field  of Civil work in appropriate
category for the work as per tender notice.
1.  The work is estimated to cost as per tender notice this estimate, however, is given merely as a rough guide.
Details  of  criteria  for  eligibility  as  Indicated  in  “INFORMATION  AND  INSTRUCTIONS  FOR
CONTRACTORS FOR e-TENDERING FORMING PART OF NIT AND TO BE POSTED ON WEBSITE”
To become eligible for issue of tender, the tenderer shall have to furnish an affidavit.
Affidavit shall be purchased /notarized on or after NIT published date but on or before last date
of submission of NIT.
(ii)  Affidavit must have “NIT/tender reference number” and “Name of work” and shall be used once
for each fresh tender.
No back dated affidavit shall be entertained and non-compliance of point (i)  & (ii) shall lead to
rejection of the tender.
Affidavit should be as mentioned under: -
“I/We  undertake and  confirm  that  eligible  similar works(s)  has/have  not  been  got  executed through
another  contractor  on  back  to  back  basis.  Further  that,  if  such  a  violation  comes  to  the  notice  of
Department, then I/we shall be debarred for tendering in IIT Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a
violation comes to the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall
be free to forfeit the entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee.” (Scanned copy
to be uploaded at the time of submission of bid)
2.  Agreement shall be drawn with the successful bidders on prescribed Form No. IITJ/CPWD form No. 7 (or
other standard form as mentioned), which is available as a Govt. of India Publication. Bidders shall quote
his rates as per various terms and conditions of the said form which will form part of the agreement.
3.  The time allowed for carrying out the work will be as per tender notice from the date of start as defined in
schedule ‘F’ or from the first date of handing over of the site, whichever is later, in accordance with the
phasing, if any, indicated in the tender documents.
4.  The site for the work is available.
5.  The bid document consisting of plans, specifications, the schedule of quantities of various types of items
to be executed and the set of terms and conditions of the contract to be complied with and other necessary
documents  except  Standard  General  Conditions  of  Contract  Form  can  be  seen  from  the  web  Site
http://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app or iitj.ac.in or e-procure.gov free of cost.
6.  After submission of the bid the contractor can re-submit revised bid any number of times but before last
time and date of submission of tender as notified.
7.  While submitting the revised bid, contractor can revise the rate of one or more item(s) any number of times
(he need not re-enter rate of all the items) but before last time and date of submission of tender as notified.
If it is desired to submit revised financial bid, then it shall be mandatory to submit revised financial bid. If
not submitted, then the tender submitted earlier shall become invalid.
9.  Earnest Money in the form of Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit Receipts (drawn in favour of Director IIT
Jodhpur)  or  through  RTGS  /  NEFT    from  any  Scheduled/  Nationalized  Bank  and  shall  be  scanned  &
uploaded  to  the  e-tendering  website  within  the  period  of  tender  submission  and  original  should  be
deposited by lowest bidder within a week after the opening of financial bid in office of  Superintending
Engineer, IIT Jodhpur.
The  time  &  date  of  submission  &  opening  of  financial  bid  of  contractors  qualifying  the  criteria  as  per
Tender Notice shall be communicated to them at a later date.
The successful bidders shall be required to submit a performance guarantee of 5% of the tendered amount
in the form of Bank Guarantee or F.D.R. from a Nationalized/Scheduled Bank within 07 days of issue of
letter of intent before award of work. In case the contractor is failed to deposit the performance guarantee
within the specified period, full earnest money will be forfeited and the tender shall be treated as void. The
performance  guarantee  shall  be  initially  valid  up  to  the  stipulated  date  of  completion  plus  06  months
The earnest money deposited along with bid shall be returned after receiving the aforesaid performance
guarantee.  In  case  the  contractor  fails  to  deposit  the  said  performance  guarantee  within  the  period  as
indicated  in  Schedule  ‘F’  including  the  extended  period  if  any,  the  Earnest  Money  deposited  by  the
contractor shall be forfeited automatically without any notice to the contractor.
Intending Bidders are advised to inspect and examine the site and its surroundings and satisfy themselves
before submitting their tenders as to the nature of the ground and sub-soil (so far as is practicable), the
form and nature of the site, the means of access to the site, the accommodation they may require and in
general shall themselves obtain all necessary information as to risks, contingencies and other circumstances
which  may  influence  or  affect  their  tender.  Bidder  shall  be  deemed  to  have  full  knowledge  of  the  site
whether he inspects it or not and no extra charge consequent to any misunderstanding or otherwise shall
be allowed. The tenderer shall be responsible for arranging and maintaining at his own cost all materials,
tools & plants, water, electricity, access, facilities for workers and all other services required for executing
the work unless otherwise specifically provided for in the contract documents. Submission of a tender by
a  tenderer  implies  that  he  has  read  this  notice  and  all  other  contract  documents  and  has  made  himself
aware of the scope and specifications of the work to be done and of conditions and rates at which stores,
tools and plant, etc. will be issued to him by the Government , local conditions and other factors having a
bearing on the execution of the work.
The competent authority does not bind itself to accept the lowest or any other tender and reserves to itself
the authority to reject any or all the tenders received without the assignment of any reason. All tenders in
which any of the prescribed condition is not fulfilled or any condition including that of conditional rebate
is put forth by the tenderer shall be summarily rejected.
Canvassing  whether  directly  or  indirectly,  in  connection  with  tenderers  is  strictly  prohibited  and  the
tenders submitted by the contractors who resort to canvassing will be liable to rejection.
The competent authority reserves the right to accept the whole or any part of the tender and the tenderer
shall be bound to perform the same at the rate quoted.
The  bidder  shall  not  be  permitted  to  tender  for  works  in  the  IIT  Jodhpur  responsible  for  award  and
execution of contracts, in which his near relative is posted as a Divisional Accountant or as an officer in
any capacity between the grades of Dean of Infrastructure Planning and Junior Engineer (both inclusive).
The contract shall be withdrawn if any bidder is found violating this condition.
18.  No Engineer of Gazetted rank or other Gazetted Officer employed in Engineering or Administrative duties
in an Engineering Department of the Government of India is allowed to work as a contractor for a period
of  one  year  after  his  retirement  from  Government  service,  without  the  previous  permission  of  the
Government of India in writing. This contract is liable to be cancelled if either the contractor or any of his
employees  is  found  at  any  time  to  be  such  a  person  who  had  not  obtained  the  permission  of  the
Government  of  India  as  aforesaid  before  submission  of  the  tender  or  engagement  in  the  contractor’s
The tender for the works shall remain open for acceptance for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of
opening  of  tender.  If  any  tenderer  withdraws  his  tender  before  the  said  period  or  issue  of  letter  of
acceptance,  whichever  is  earlier,  or  makes  any  modifications  in  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  tender
which are not acceptable to the department, then the institute shall, without prejudice to any other right or
remedy, be at liberty to forfeit 50% of the said earnest money as aforesaid. Further the tenderer shall not
be allowed to participate in the retendering process of the work.
This notice inviting tender shall form a part of the contract document. The successful tenderer / contractor,
on acceptance of his tender by the Accepting Authority shall within 15 days from the stipulated date of
start of the work, sign the contract consisting of:
a.  The Notice Inviting Tender, all the documents including additional conditions, specifications and
drawings, if any, forming part of the tender as uploaded at the time of invitation of tender and the
rates  quoted  online  at  the  time  of  submission  of  bid  and  acceptance  thereof  together  with  any
correspondence leading thereto.
b.  Standard IITJ/CPWD Form – 7/8 or other Standard IITJ Form as mentioned.
INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING
Subject: - Partition and electrical works in Bays–2, 3, 4 of W-17 Berm
Sub Head: -Composite Work
It is hereby declared that I.I.T. Jodhpur is committed to follow the principle of transparency, equity
and competitiveness in public procurement.
The  subject  Notice  Inviting  Tender  (NIT)  is  an  invitation  to  offer  made  on  the  condition  that  the
Bidder will sign the integrity Agreement, which is an integral part of tender/bid documents, failing which
the tenderer / bidder will stand disqualified from the tendering process and the bid of the bidder would be
This declaration shall form part and parcel of the Integrity Agreement and signing of the same shall
be deemed as acceptance and signing of the Integrity Agreement on behalf of the I.I.T. Jodhpur.
Office of Infrastructure Engineering
Acceptance to execute integrity pact
(To be signed by bidder and upload the scanned copy)
IIT Jodhpur, NH 62 Nagour Road Karwar
Submission of Bid for the “Partition and electrical works in Bays–2, 3, 4 of W-17 Berm”
Sub Head:    Composite Work
I/We  acknowledge  that  I.I.T.  Jodhpur  is  committed  to  follow  the  principles  thereof  as
enumerated in the Integrity Agreement enclosed with the tender/bid document.
I/We agree that the Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) is an invitation to offer made on the condition
that  I/We  will  sign  the  enclosed  integrity  Agreement,  which  is  an  integral  part  of  tender  /  bid
documents, failing which I/We will stand disqualified from the tendering process. I/We acknowledge
that THE MAKING OF THE BID SHALL BE REGARDED AS AN UNCONDITIONAL AND ABSOLUTE
ACCEPTANCE of this condition of the NIT.
I/We confirm acceptance and compliance with the Integrity Agreement in letter and spirit and
further agree that execution of the said Integrity Agreement shall be separate and distinct from the main
contract,  which  will  come  into  existence  when  tender/bid  is  finally  accepted  by  I.I.T.Jodhpur.  I/We
acknowledge and accept the duration of the Integrity Agreement, which shall be in the line with Article
1 of the enclosed Integrity Agreement.
I/We  acknowledge  that  in  the  event  of  my/our  failure  to  sign  and  accept  the  Integrity
Agreement,  while  submitting  the  tender/bid,  I.I.T.  Jodhpur  shall  have  unqualified,  absolute  and
unfettered right to disqualify the tender / bidder and reject the tender/bid is accordance with terms and
conditions of the tender/bid.
(Duly authorized signatory of the Bidder)
INTEGRATY PACT e-TENDERING
To be signed by the bidder and same signatory competent / authorized to
sign the relevant contract on behalf of IIT Jodhpur.
This Integrity Agreement is made at ...........................................on this....................day of................. 2..........
The Director, IIT Jodhpur represented through Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
................................................................................................................................................, (Hereinafter referred as the
(Address of Division)
‘Principal/Owner’, which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include its
successors and permitted assigns)
(Name and Address of the Individual /firm/Company)
through...................................................................................................................... ....... (Hereinafter referred to as the
(Details of duly authorized signatory)
“Bidder/Contractor” and which expression shall unless repugnant to the meaning or context hereof include
its successors and permitted assigns)
WHEREAS the Principal / Owner has floated the Tender (NIT No. .......................................) (Hereinafter
referred to as “Tender/Bid”) and intends to award, under laid down organizational procedure, contract
(Name of work)
hereinafter referred to as the “Contract”.
AND WHEREAS the Principal/Owner values full compliance with all relevant laws of the land, rules,
regulations, economic use of resources and of fairness/transparency in its relation with its Bidder(s) and
AND WHEREAS to meet the purpose aforesaid both the parties have agreed to enter into this Integrity
Agreement (hereinafter referred to as “Integrity Pact” or “Pact”), the terms and conditions of which shall also
be read as integral part and parcel of the Tender/Bid documents and Contract between the parties.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of mutual covenants contained in this Pact, the parties hereby agree as
follows and this Pact witnesses as under:
Article 1: Commitment of the Principal/Owner
1)  The  Principal/Owner  commits  itself  to  take  all  measures  necessary  to  prevent  corruption  and  to
observe the following principles:
No employee of the Principal/Owner, personally or through any of his/her family members,
will in connection with the Tender, or the execution of the Contract, demand, take a promise
for or accept, for self or third person, any material or immaterial benefit which the person is
not legally entitled to.
The  Principal/Owner  will,  during  the  Tender  process,  treat  all  Bidder(s)  with  equity  and
reason. The Principal/Owner will, in particular, before and during the Tender process, provide
to  all  Bidder(s)  the  same  information  and  will  not  provide  to  any  Bidder(s)  confidential  /
additional information through which the Bidder(s) could obtain an advantage in relation to
the Tender process or the Contract execution.
The Principal/Owner shall endeavor to exclude from the Tender process any person, whose
conduct in the past has been of biased nature.
If the Principal/Owner obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a criminal
offence under the Indian Penal code (IPC)/Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (PC Act) or is in violation
of  the  principles  herein  mentioned  or  if  there  be  a  substantive  suspicion  in  this  regard,  the
Principal/Owner will inform the Chief Vigilance Officer and in addition can also initiate disciplinary
actions as per its internal laid down policies and procedures.
Article 2: Commitment of the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)
It is required that each Bidder/Contractor (including their respective officers, employees and agents)
adhere to the highest ethical standards, and report to the Government / Department all suspected acts
of fraud or corruption or Coercion or Collusion of which it has knowledge or becomes aware, during
the tendering process and throughout the negotiation or award of a contract.
2)  The   Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) commits  himself   to   take   all   measures necessary to prevent corruption.
He    commits    himself    to    observe    the  following  principles  during  his  participation  in    the  Tender
process and during the Contract execution:
The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  will  not,  directly  or  through  any  other  person  or  firm,  offer,
promise or give to any of the Principal/Owner’s employees involved in the Tender process or
execution of the Contract or to any third person any material or other benefit which he/she is
not legally entitled to, in order to obtain in exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever
during the Tender process or during the execution of the Contract.
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not enter with other Bidder(s) into any undisclosed agreement
or  understanding,  whether  formal  or  informal.  This  applies  in  particular  to  prices,
specifications, certifications, subsidiary contracts, submission or non-submission of bids or any
other actions to restrict competitiveness or to cartelize in the bidding process.
The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  will  not  commit  any  offence  under  the  relevant  IPC/PC  Act.
Further the Bidder(s)/Contract(s) will not use improperly, (for the purpose of competition or
personal  gain),  or  pass  on  to  others,  any  information  or  documents  provided  by  the
Principal/Owner as part of the business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and
business details, including information contained or transmitted electronically.
The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  of  foreign  origin  shall  disclose  the  names  and  addresses  of
agents/representatives in India, if any. Similarly Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) of Indian Nationality
shall disclose names and addresses of foreign agents/representatives, if any. Either the Indian
agent on behalf of the foreign principal or the foreign principal directly could bid in a tender
but  not  both.  Further,  in  cases  where  an  agent  participate  in  a  tender  on  behalf  of  one
manufacturer, he shall not be allowed to quote on behalf of another manufacturer along with
the first manufacturer in a subsequent/parallel tender for the same item.
The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will, when presenting his bid, disclose any and all payments he
has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries in
connection with the award of the Contract.
3)  The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined above or be an
accessory to such offences.
4)  The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm indulge in fraudulent
practice  means  a  willful  misrepresentation  or  omission  of  facts  or  submission  of  fake/forged
documents in order to induce public official to act in reliance thereof, with the purpose of obtaining
unjust  advantage  by  or  causing  damage  to  justified  interest  of  others  and/or  to  influence  the
procurement process to the detriment of the Government interests.
5)  The Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) will not, directly or through any other person or firm use Coercive
Practices (means the act of obtaining something, compelling an action or influencing a decision
through intimidation, threat or the use of force directly or indirectly, where potential or actual injury
may befall upon a person, his/ her reputation or property to influence their participation in the
Article 3: Consequences of Breach
Without prejudice to any rights that may be available to the Principal/Owner under law or the Contract or
its established policies and laid down procedures, the Principal/Owner shall have the following rights in
case of breach of this Integrity Pact by the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) and the Bidder/ Contractor accepts and
undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal/Owner’s absolute right:
If the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s), either before award or  during execution of Contract has committed a
transgression through a violation of Article 2 above or in any other form, such as to put his reliability
or credibility in question, the Principal/Owner after giving 14 days’ notice to the contractor shall have
powers to disqualify the Bidder(s)/Contractor(s) from the Tender process or terminate/determine the
Contract, if already executed or exclude the Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes.
The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of transgression and
determined by the Principal/Owner. Such exclusion may be forever or for a limited period as decided
by the Principal/Owner.
2)  Forfeiture of EMD/Performance Guarantee/Security Deposit: If the Principal/Owner has disqualified
the Bidder(s) from the Tender process prior to the award of the Contract or terminated/determined the
Contract or  has accrued the  right to terminate/determine  the  Contract according to Article 3(1), the
Principal/Owner apart from exercising any legal rights that may have accrued to the Principal/Owner,
may  in  its  considered  opinion  forfeit  the  entire  amount  of  Earnest  Money  Deposit,  Performance
Guarantee and Security Deposit of the Bidder/Contractor.
3)  Criminal Liability: If the Principal/Owner obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder or Contractor, or
of  an  employee  or  a  representative  or  an  associate  of  a  Bidder  or  Contractor  which  constitutes
corruption within the meaning of IPC Act, or if the Principal/Owner has substantive suspicion in this
regard, the Principal/Owner will inform the same to law enforcing agencies for further investigation.
Article 4: Previous Transgression
1)  The  Bidder  declares  that  no  previous  transgressions  occurred  in  the  last  5  years  with  any  other
Company in any country confirming to the anticorruption approach or with Central Government or
State Government or any other Central/State Public Sector Enterprises in India that could justify his
exclusion from the Tender process.
If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from the Tender process
or action can be taken for banning of business dealings/ holiday listing of the Bidder/Contractor as
deemed fit by the Principal/ Owner.
If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has resorted / recouped the damage caused by him and has
installed  a  suitable  corruption  prevention  system,  the  Principal/Owner  may,  at  its  own  discretion,
revoke the exclusion prematurely.
Article 5: Equal Treatment of all Bidders/Contractors/Subcontractors
1)  The  Bidder(s)/Contractor(s)  undertake(s)  to  demand  from  all  subcontractors  a  commitment  in
conformity with this Integrity Pact. The Bidder/Contractor shall be responsible for any violation(s) of
the principles laid down in this agreement/Pact by any of its Sub-contractors/sub-vendors.
2)  The  Principal/Owner  will  enter  into  Pacts  on  identical  terms  as  this  one  with  all  Bidders  and
3)  The Principal/Owner will disqualify Bidders, who do not submit, the duly signed Pact between the
Principal/Owner and the  bidder, along with the  Tender or  violate  its provisions at any stage of the
Tender process, from the Tender process.
Article 6- Duration of the Pact
This Pact begins when both the parties have legally signed it. It expires for the Contractor/Vendor 09 Months
after the completion of work under the contract or till the continuation of defect liability period, whichever
is more and for all other bidders, till the Contract has been awarded.
If any claim is made/lodged during the time, the same shall be binding and continue to be valid despite the
lapse of this Pacts as specified above, unless it is discharged/determined by the Competent Authority, I.I.T.
Article 7- Other Provisions
1)  This  Pact  is  subject  to  Indian  Law,  place  of  performance  and  jurisdiction  is  the  Headquarters  of  the
Division of the Principal/Owner, who has floated the Tender.
Changes and supplements need to be made in writing. Side agreements have not been made.
If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this Pact must be signed by all the partners or by one
or more partner holding power of attorney signed by all partners and consortium members. In case of
a Company, the Pact must be signed by a representative duly authorized by board resolution.
4)  Should one or several provisions of this Pact turn out to be invalid; the remainder of this Pact remains
valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original intensions.
It is agreed term and condition that any dispute or difference arising between the parties with regard
to the terms of this Integrity Agreement / Pact, any action taken by the Owner/Principal in accordance
with this Integrity Agreement/ Pact or interpretation thereof shall not be subject to arbitration.
Article 8- LEGAL AND PRIOR RIGHTS
All rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall be in addition to all the other legal rights and remedies
belonging to such parties under the Contract and/or law and the same shall be deemed to be cumulative
and not alternative to such legal rights and remedies aforesaid. For the sake of brevity, both the Parties agree
that this Integrity Pact will have precedence over the Tender/Contact documents with regard any of the
provisions covered under this Integrity Pact.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have signed and executed this Integrity Pact at the place and date first
above mentioned in the presence of following witnesses:
(For and on behalf of Principal/Owner)
(For and on behalf of Bidder/Contractor)
(signature, name and address)
(signature, name and address)
I.I.T.J – 7/8 e-TENDERING
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Percentage Rate Tender & Contract for Works
Tender for the work of: Partition and electrical works in Bays–2, 3, 4 of W-17 Berm
Sub Head: -Composite Work.
(C)  To be submitted by as per tender notice …………………………………..........................................................
(C)  To be opened in presence of bidders who may be present at as per tender notice …………..…………….
I/We  have  read  and  examined  the  notice  inviting  tender,  schedule,  A,  B,  C,  D,  E  &  F  Specifications
applicable, Drawings & Designs, General Rules and Directions, Conditions of Contract, clauses of contract,
Special conditions, Schedule of Rate & other documents and Rules referred to in the conditions of contract
and all other contents in the tender document for the work.
I/We hereby tender for the execution of the work specified for I.I.T. Jodhpur, within the time specified in
Schedule  ‘F’  viz.,  schedule  of  quantities  and  in  accordance  in  all  respect  with  the  specifications,  designs,
drawing and instructions in writing referred to in Rule-1 of General Rules and Directions and in Clause 11
of the Conditions of contract and with such materials as are provided for, by, and in respect of accordance
with, such conditions so far as applicable.
We agree to keep the tender open for Ninety (90) days from the date of opening of bid.
A sum of as per tender notice is hereby forwarded in Banker Cheque or Demand Draft or Fixed Deposit
receipt  of  a  schedule  bank  drawn  in  favour  of  IIT  Jodhpur  earnest  money.  If  I/We,  fail  to  furnish  the
prescribed  performance  guarantee  within  prescribed  period.  I/We  agree  that  the  I.I.T.  Jodhpur  or  his
successors,  in  office  shall  without  prejudice  to  any  other  right  or  remedy,  be  at  liberty  to  forfeit  the  said
earnest money absolutely. Further, if I/We fail to commence work as specified, I/We agree that The  I.I.T.
Jodhpur or the successors in office shall without prejudice to any other right or remedy available in law, be
at liberty to forfeit the  said earnest money  and the  performance guarantee absolutely, otherwise the  said
earnest money shall be retained by him towards security deposit to execute all the works referred to in the
tender documents upon the terms and conditions contained or referred to those in excess of that limit at the
rates to be determined in accordance with the provision contained in Clause 12.2 and 12.3 of the tender form.
Further, I/We agree that in case of forfeiture of Earnest Money & Performance Guarantee as aforesaid. I/We
shall be debarred for participation in the re-tendering process of the work.
I/We undertake and confirm that eligible similar work(s) has/have not been got executed through another
contractor on back to back basis. Further that, if such a violation comes to the notice of Department, then
I/We shall be debarred for tendering in I.I.T. Jodhpur in future forever. Also, if such a violation comes to
the notice of Department before date of start of work, the Engineer-in-Charge shall be free to forfeit the
entire amount of Earnest Money Deposit/Performance Guarantee.
I/We hereby declare that I/We shall treat the tender documents drawings and other records connected with
the work as secret/confidential documents and shall not communicate information/derived there from to
any  person  other  than  a  person  to  whom  I/We  am/are  authorized  to  communicate  the  same  or  use  the
information in any manner prejudicial to the safety of the State.
Signature of Contractor
I.I.T.J– 7/8 e-TENDERING
The above tender (as modified by you as provided in the letters mentioned hereunder) is accepted
The letters referred to below form part of this contract agreement:
For & on behalf of IIT Jodhpur
PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
PROFORMA OF SCHEDULES
Schedule of quantities (enclosed)
Schedule of materials to be issued to the contractor.
Description of item
Place of issue
Rates in figures &
words at which the
material will be
charged to the
Tools and plants to be hired to the contractor
Hire charges per day
Place of Issue
Extra schedule for specific requirements/document for the work, if any.
---------- Nil ------------
Reference to General Conditions of contract: General Conditions of contract for CPWD/IITJ Works 2023: GCC
2023 for Construction Works, Form-7 for CPWD works as amended up to last date of submission of
Name of work : Partition and electrical works in Bays–2, 3, 4 of W-17 Berm
Sub Head: Composite  Work.
(i)  Estimated cost of work
(ii)  Earnest Money
(iii) Performance Guarantee
(iv) Security Deposit
the sum deducted will amount to security deposit of 2.5% of the tendered amount of the work.
As per Tender Notice
As per Tender Notice
As per Tender Notice
2.5% of the gross amount of each running and final bill till
SCHEDULE ‘F’ (CIVIL WORK)
General Rules & Directions:
Officer inviting tender
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Maximum  percentage  for  quantity  of  items  of
work to be executed beyond which rates are to
be determined in accordance with Clauses 12.2
Executive Engineer (Civil)
Dean of infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Percentage  on  cost  of  materials  and  labor  to
cover all overhead & profits
Standard schedule of Rates
Standard IITJ contract Form
DSR 2023 (Civil) and DSR 2025 (Electrical) with up to
date correction slips and market rate.
Office of Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
General  Conditions  of  contract  for  CPWD  for
Construction Works 2023 as amended/modified up
to last date of submission of bid.
(Time  and  Progress)  and  applicable
Time allowed for submission of Performance guarantee, Programme
registration with EPFO, ESIC  and BOCW Welfare Board including
Provident Fund Code No. or proof of applying thereof from date of
issue of letter of acceptance.
(ii)  Maximum  allowable  extension  with  late  fee  @  0.1%  per  day  of
performance  guarantee  amount  beyond  the  period  provided  in  (i)
Authority for fixing Compensation under Clause 2
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Whether clause 2A is applicable
Number  of  days  from  the  date  of  issue  of  letter  of
acceptance for reckoning date of start Mile stone(s) as
per table given below
Description of Milestone(Physical)
Time Allowed in days
(from date of start)
Site inspection, measurements, layout
and marking for entire work
Providing  &  fixing  of  aluminium
in  Bays–2,  3,  4(frames,
panels, alignment complete)
Providing  &  fixing  of  gypsum  board
partitions  and  glazing
framing, boarding, joint finishing and
allied works as per approved layout
internal  electrical  works
fixtures, testing & commissioning) and
completion  of  all  remaining  allied
works  including  finishing  &  handing
Amount to be with-held in case
of non achievement of
10% of bill value
10% of bill value
10% of bill value
Time allowed for execution of work
Authority to decide:
Extension of time
Rescheduling of mile stones
Shifting of date of start in case of delay
in handing over of site
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Clause 6, 6A
Clause applicable -
Computerized measure book (CMB) / Electronic
Measurement book (EMB)
Mode of measurement - Computerized measure book (CMB)
Gross work to be done together with net payment
/adjustment of advances for material collected, if
any, since the last such payment for being eligible
to interim payment
Clause 10 A
Clause 10B (i)
Whether Clause 10 B (ii) shall be applicable
Component of labour expressed as percentage of
value of work
Clause 10CA and Clause 10CC escalation clause
Schedule of component of other Materials, Labour, POL etc. for price escalation.
Component of civil (except materials covered under
clause 10CA) /Electrical construction Materials
expressed as percent of total value of work. -
Component of Labour -
expressed as percent of total value of work.
Component of P.O.L. -
expressed as percent of total value of work.
Specifications to be followed for execution of work
Type of work
CPWD specifications 2019 Vol-1&2 for civil and
Part-I Internal 2023 and Part-II External 2023 for
electrical works with upto date correction slips &
manufacturers specifications & NIT
Partition and electrical works in Bays–2, 3, 4 of
12.2. & 12.3 Deviation Limit beyond which clauses
shall apply for building work
Competent Authority for deciding reduced rates
Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur
Defect Liability Period - 12 Months after the issue of the certificate final or otherwise, of completion of
work, or till the final bill has been prepared and passed whichever is later.
Note : - Security deposit will be refunded after the expiry of the defect liability period
List of mandatory machinery, tools & plants to be deployed by the contractor at site: -
As per requirement and direction of Engineer-In-Charge
Constitution   of   Dispute   Redressal Committee
DRC  shall  constitute  one  Chairman  and  two
Competent   Authority   to   appoint DRC
Director, Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
“Requirement of Technical Representative (s) and Recovery Rate” for the work
Requirement of Technical
Designation of Technical Staff
2 or 5
Project Manager cum
Rate at which
recovery shall be
made from the
contractor in the
event of not
Rs. 15000/- per
“Assistant Engineer retired from Government Services those are holding Diploma will be treated at par
with Graduate Engineer”.
Diploma holder with minimum 10 year relevant experience with a reputed construction co. can be
treated at par with graduate Engineers for the purpose of such deployment subject to the condition
that such diploma holders should not exceed 50% of requirement of degree engineers.
Schedule/statement for determining theoretical
quantity of cement & bitumen on the basis of Delhi
Schedule of Rates
Variations permissible on theoretical quantities
Cement for works estimated cost put to tender not
more than Rs. 25 Lakhs
For works with estimated cost put to tender more
DSR 2023 with correction slips issued
upto last date of submission of bid
3 % plus/minus
2 % plus/minus
than Rs. 25 Lakhs
Bitumen for all works
Steel reinforcement  and structural steel section for
each diameter, section and category
All other materials
2.5% plus only & nil on minus side
RECOVERY RATES FOR QUANTITY BEYOND PERMISSSIBLE VARIATION For All Elements
Excess beyond permissible limits
Less use beyond the permissible limit
As per CPWD norms
As per CPWD norms
BANK GUARANTEE BOND
Form of Earnest Money Deposit
Bank Guarantee Bond
WHEREAS,  contractor  ………………………..(Name  of  contractor)  (hereinafter  called  “the
(date)  for  the  work  of(name  of  work)
contractor”)  has  submitted  his tender dated
(hereinafter called “the Tender”)
…..(name    of    bank)    having
KNOW ALL PEOPLE  by  these  presents  that  we
our registered office   at
Bank”)  are bound  unto
(Name and division of Engineer) (hereinafter called “the Engineer-in-Charge”) in the sum of
Rs. ......................... (Rs. In words .................................................) for which payment well and truly
to be made to the said Engineer-in-Charge the Bank binds itself, his successors and assigns by
SEALED with the Common Seal of the said Bank this .................day of ................. 20....
THE CONDITIONS of this obligation are:
(1)  If after tender opening the Contractor withdraws, his tender during the period of validity of
tender (including extended validity of tender) specified in the Form of Tender;
(2)  If the contractor having been notified of the acceptance of his tender by the Engineer-in-Charge:
(C)  fails or refuses to execute the Form of Agreement in accordance with the Instructions to
contractor, if required;
(C)  fails or refuses to furnish the Performance Guarantee, in accordance with the provisions of
tender document and Instructions to contractor,
(C)  Ifails or refuses to start the work, in accordance with the provisions of the contract and
Instructions to contractor,
(d)   fails or refuses to submit fresh Bank Guarantee of an equal amount of this Bank Guarantee,
against Security Deposit after award of contract.
We undertake to pay to the Engineer-in-Charge either up to the above amount or part thereof
upon  receipt  of  his  first  written  demand,  without  the  Engineer-in-Charge  having  to
substantiates his demand, provided that in his demand the Engineer-in-Charge will note that
the amount claimed by his is due to him owing to the occurrence of one or any of the above
conditions, specifying the occurred condition or conditions.
This Guarantee will remain in force up to and including the date* ............. after the deadline for
submission of tender as such deadline is stated in the Instructions to contractor or as it may be
extended by the Engineer-in-Charge, notice of which extension(s) to the Bank is hereby waived.
Any demand in respect of this Guarantee should reach the Bank not later than the above date.
SIGNATURE OF THE BANK
(SIGNATURE, NAME AND
*Date to be worked out on the basis of validity period of 6 months from last date of receipt of tender.
TERMS AND CODITIONS OF CONTRACT
Agency/  Firm  shall  abide  by  all  laws  of  the  land  including,  labour  laws,  Companies  Act,  Tax
deduction liabilities, welfare measures of its employees and all other statutory obligations that enjoin
in such cases and are not enumerated and defined herein, through any such onus shall be the exclusive
responsibility of the Agency/ Firm, and it shall not involve the Institute in any way whatsoever.
The Financial Bid must be submitted in BOQ/Price Bid only.
Institute  reserves  the  right  to  require  the  Agency/  Firm  to  remove  any  person  deployed  by  the
company,  without  assigning  any  reasons/notice.  This  will  be  without  prejudice  to  the  right  of  the
Agency/ Firm to remove any of his own employees deployed in the Institute.
In the case of any dereliction of duty, negligence, an unintended or intended damage caused by the
Agency/ Firm or its staff pertaining to this agreement, or otherwise, any harm is done to the Institute,
the  Agency/  Firm  shall  make  good  the  loss  or  pay  the  compensation,  refund  expenditure  on
legal/judicial proceedings as well as pay such penalty which the party of the first part may deem fit.
It  would  be  responsibility  of  Agency/Firm  to  arrange  all  permission/  approvals  from  all  local
bodies/statutory bodies & nothing extra shall be paid on account of this by the Institute.
The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for all injury and accident to persons employed by him while
on duty. It is desirable that all employees are covered under an insurance cover.
All  employees  of  the  Agency/Firm  shall  be  issued  Identity  Cards  bearing  their  photographs.
Photographs for identity cards shall be provided by the Agency/ Firm at their own cost. The ID Cards
will be issued by the Agency/ Firm. These will be countersigned by the IIT Jodhpur Security Officer/
Engineer of Office of Infrastructure Engineering.
The  Agency/Firm  shall  be  responsible  for  the  good  conduct  and  behavior  of  its  employees.  If  any
employee of the Agency/ Firm is found misbehaving with the supervisory staff or other staff members
of the  Institute the  Agency/ Firm shall terminate  the  services of such employees forthwith at their
own risk and responsibility. The Agency/ Firm shall issue necessary Instructions to its employees to
act upon the instructions given by the supervisory staff of the Institute.
9.  When  a  register  gets  completed,  it  will  be  handed  over  to  the  concerned  J.E.  /  A.E.  It  will  not  be
returned to the contractor and the same will remain the property of the department.
The Agency/Firm shall obtain all other necessary approvals from statutory bodies as per applicable
law in vogue.
The dismantled material which has scrap valve needs to be handed over to Institute.
In the  event of any loss being  occurred to the  Institute  during the course of execution of work, on
account of the negligence of duty by the Agency/ Firm’ and their employees, the Agency/ Firm shall
make good the loss sustained to the Institute either by replacement or on payment of the adequate
compensation as per decision of Engineer-in-charge.
The Agency/ Firm shall not appoint sub-Agency/Firm to carry out any obligation under the contract.
The Agency/ Firm will take  day-to-day instructions from the  supervisory staff of the  institute and
shall maintain diary for the same.
The labours engaged by agency shall not be below age 18 years and no worker will be allowed to stay
in the Institute campus.
The Agency/Firm shall maintain an Inspection Book as prescribed, which will be made available to
supervisory staff of the Institute. Fault/observation record there on shall be attended to immediately.
17.  Agency/ Firms will apply to the Labour Commissioner for obtaining a Labour License as applicable
and nothing extra shall be paid to Agency by IIT Jodhpur. Agency/ Firms will submit a copy of license
to officer-in-charge of IIT Jodhpur.
The Agency/ Firm would sign and give an undertaking as per Performa every month for compliance
of the provision of Contract Labour Act. Rule and other Law as applicable.
19.  Any dispute arising out of and in relation to this agreement shall be referred to the arbitration by sole
arbitrator  to  be  appointed  by  Director  of  the  Institute.  The  arbitration  would  be  conducted  and
governed by and under the provisions of Arbitration Act, 1996. Any legal dispute will be subject to
jurisdiction of Jodhpur Courts only and no other court shall have the jurisdiction refer IITJ/CPWD
GCC form 7/8 in regard.
IIT Jodhpur is a ‘No SMOKING ZONE’ The Agency/ Firm should ensure that his employees DO NOT
SMOKE while working in the IIT Campus. They will also not indulge in drinking alcohol or any other
intoxicants. They will not consume drugs and eat pan/ Khaini / tobacco etc. they will not play cards
or indulge in gambling on campus.
The  Agency/  Firm  shall  keep  himself  fully  informed  of  all  acts  and  laws  of  the  Central  and  State
Government,  all  orders,  decrees  of  statutory  bodies,  tribunals  having  any  jurisdiction  or  authority,
which  in  any  manner  may  affect  their  engaged  or  employed  and  anything  related  to  carry  out  the
work. All the  rules & regulations & byelaws  lay down by the  local bodies and  any other statutory
bodies shall be adhered to, by the Agency/ Firm, during the execution of work.
22.  Agency/ Firm must employ adult and skilled personnel only. Employment of child labour shall lead
to the termination of the contract at the risk and cost of the Agency/ Firm. Agency/ Firm shall deploy/
engage  reliable  persons  at  client  after  proper  character  and  police  verification  and  impose  any
conditions as per prevailing contractual labour laws for such engagements, take disciplinary action or
reward any person at work etc., at its sole costs, risks and responsibilities.
23.  Agency/ Firm shall deal with and settle the matters related with unions and shall make sure that no
labour disputes / problems are referred to Client. It shall totally indemnify Client in this regard.
24.  Agency/ Firm should at all times indemnify Client against all claims, damages or compensation under
the provisions of payment of wages Act, 1936; Minimum Wages Act, 1948; Employer’s Liability Act,
1938 ; the workmen compensation Act, 1932 ; Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ; Maternity Benefit Act,
1961 ; or any modification thereof or any other law relating thereto and rules made hereunder from
time. Client will not own any responsibility in this regard.
Tenderer  should  not  have  conflict  of  interest.  The  tenderer  found  to  have  conflict  interest  shall  be
Joint ventures is not allowed.
27.  No  Rebate  on  account  of  small  scale  industries  or  any  other  ground  or  on  any  other  ground  or
documents shall be granted in this SPC/ Tender.
28.  All  statutory  &  mandatory  deductions  as  per  Government  of  India  &  Rajasthan  State  Government
norms shall be deducted from each running bill & final bill of agency/ firm.
29.  GST shall be applicable in this contract. NIT and the rules of Govt. of India of as notified from time to
time shall be followed in items of GST. Presently, 18% GST has been considered in this tender and
agency has to quote the rates inclusive of GST.
30.  No escalation clause i.e, clause 10CC of IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 is applicable in this NIT/ Contract.
Security deposit @2.5% will be deducted for entire gross work done including extension period if
any, from each installment however, earnest money deposit will be adjusted to security deposit.
1% (one percent) cess towards labour welfare fund or as applicable, income tax as applicable and other
taxes/ statutory recoveries as applicable will be deducted from the bill of contractor.
33.  Non-Judicial stamp paper worth Rs. 10/- (Ten Rupees only) will be submitted by contractor which will
have to be signed as token of acceptance.
34.  No  Tools  &  Plants  would  be  supplied  by  the  Institute  and  contractor  will  have  to  make  his  own
The contractors are advised to get acquainted with the proposed work including specifications & its site
and additional conditions carefully before quoting. No claim of any sort shall be entertained or account
of any site conditions and ignorance of specifications & additional conditions. The work shall be carried
out as per the availability of site.
The work shall be carried out as per CPWD specifications for civil and electrical work with up – to date
correction slips unless otherwise specified in the nomenclature of individual item or in the specification,
additional conditions where specifications are silent, the decision of Engineer-in-Charge shall be final
and binding on contractor.
The rates quoted by the contractor shall be taken as net and nothing extra shall be paid on any account
i.e Royalty, Cartage, GST & stacking of material required at places etc. The rates for different items of
work shall apply for Heights & Depths, Leads & Lifts unless otherwise specified in the agreement or
specifications applicable in the agreement.
38.  Articles manufactured by the reputed firms and approved make list in tender.
The sample of material required in the work brought at site shall be got approved from Engineer  –in-
Charge before use in execution of work.
40.  All the required materials shall be got checked & approved by the Engineer-in-charge on receipt of
the same at site before use and rejected material is to be removed from the site immediately.
The sample of material required for Testing shall be provided at free of cost by the contractor. Testing
charges if any shall be borne by the IIT Jodhpur if satisfactory report and if test results are unsatisfactory
than testing charges shall be deducted from bills of contractor. All other expenditure to be incurred for
taking sample, conveyance, packing etc. shall be borne by the contractor.
The contractor shall submit a detailed program of work within 7 days of the date of award of work. The
Engineer – in- Charge can modify the program and the contractors have to work accordingly.
The contractor shall make his own arrangement for getting the permission with respect to trucks from
the Traffic Police.
44.  No payment shall be made to contractor for any damage caused by the rain or any other natural causes
what so ever during the execution of work.
Some  restrictions  may  be  imposed  by  the  security  staff  of  IIT  Jodhpur  etc.  on  the  working  and  on
movement of labour & material. No labour camp/ huts shall be allowed in IIT Jodhpur. The contractor
shall  make  his  own  arrangement  for  labour  huts  outside  the  campus.  However,  constructions  of
cement godown and Chowkidar’s hut in the Campus shall be permitted. The contractor shall be bound
to follow all such restrictions/ instructions and nothing shall be payable on this account.
The contractor shall be fully responsible for the safe custody of the material issued or brought at site by
him for doing the work.
The  Malba  /  Garbage  generated  at  site  due  to  construction  activities  shall  be  removed  from  the  site
immediately  &  shall  be  disposed  off  by  the  contractor  to  the  approved  dumping  site  of  Jodhpur
Municipal Corporation and all statutory approvals from local bodies shall be a sole responsibility of
The contractor shall clean the site thoroughly of scaffolding materials, rubbish, equipment’s left out of
his work & dress the site around the building to the  complete satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge
before the work is treated as completed.
49.  Water charges @ 1% and Electricity charges @ 0.5 % of gross work done shall be deducted from bills of
contractor if electricity and water provided by IIT Jodhpur for this work.
50.  Agency has to take proper safety measures during the execution of work.
IITJ/CPWD GCC form 7/8 shall form part of NIT and the bidder shall go through GCC before quoting
rates and the same shall be deemed to be accepted by bidder if he participates in the tender.
ESI  &  EPF  shall  be  reimbursed  as  per  norms  on  production  of  original  receipt  of  ESI  &  EPF  from
contractor specific to this work.
The contractor shall submit the program of execution of work as per clause 5 of IITJ/CPWD GCC form
7/8 of NIT including list of workers to be deployed by contractor for this work.
54.  Contractor shall be responsible for keeping site free of any kind of mosquito breeding. If it is found that
breeding is taking place the entire responsibility shall be of contractor to bear challan etc. done by local
55.  All the statutory obligations which is not covered in the bid document shall be reimbursed on actual
basis after submission of proof of payment.
56.  The  rates  for  different  items  of  work  shall  apply  for  all  Heights  &  Depths,  Leads  &  Lifts  unless
otherwise specified in the agreement or specifications applicable in the agreement. The Agency/ Firm
must visit site (internal or external) area before quoting rates.
57.  Final payment shall be released only after satisfactory completion of work.
58.  Failure  to  comply  any  of  the  above  clauses  or  due  to  unsatisfactory  performance  as  observed  by
Engineer-in-charge, the contract shall be terminated at any stage without assigning any reason thereof.
Additional Terms and Condition
1.  The work will be carried out as per CPWD specification.
2.  All taxes such Income Tax whether applicable or laid by the government after opening the tender shall be
borne by the Agency/ Firm & shall be deducted from the bills of Agency/ Firm.
3.  Failure to comply any of the above clauses or due to unsatisfactory performance as observed by Engineer-
in-charge, the contract shall be terminated at any stage without assigning any reason thereof.
4.  The Agency/ Firm shall be responsible for any injury or accident to the labour during execution of work
and claim shall be given by the Agency/ Firm.
5.  Any damage caused to Institute property during execution of work shall be made good by the Agency/
Firm on his own cost.
6.  The Agency/ Firm shall clean the site thoroughly to the entire satisfaction of Engineer-in-charge.
7.  The Agency/ Firm / his supervisor will be bound to signature the site order book & carry out instructions
giving their in.
8.  The rates quoted by the Agency/ Firm shall be taken as net and nothing extra shall be paid on any account
i.e. Royalty, Cartage, Sales Tax & stacking of material required at places etc.
9.  The  rates  for  different  items  of  work  shall  apply  for  all  Heights  &  Depths,  Leads  &  Lifts  unless
otherwise specified in the agreement or specifications applicable in the agreement. The Agency/ Firm
must visit site (internal or external) area before quoting rates.
10.  All the statutory obligations which is not covered in the bid document shall be reimbursed on actual basis
after submission of proof of payment.
11.  18% GST has been considered in this work. The quoted rates must be inclusive of 18% GST.
Special Conditions of BOQ: -
1.  The contractor must visit the site of work /buildings before quoting the rates.
2.  No labour to stay in IIT Campus nothing shall be paid extra on this account.
3.  Site shall be made available as and when available.
4.  Scaffolding, Jhula, ladders etc. to carryout works at all heights/Lifts shall be arranged by the
contractor at his own cost. Nothing extra shall be paid on these accounts .
5.  Site shall be available in parts or phases as per directions of Engineer in Charge and nothing extra
on this account shall be paid to the Contractor.
6.  Rate quoted by the contractor shall be inclusive of GST, ESI & EPF.
LIST OF APPROVED MATERIALS:
Make List of Civil items:
Aluminium Sections (Powder-Coated)
SAIL /TATA Steel / JSW Steel /Apollo/Jindal/Hindalco
Glass Reinforced Gypsum (GRG) plaster
Premium Acrylic Emulsion Paints
Reinforced Bars(TMT) and Structural
Flush Door Shutter
Hardware, Patch Fittings and Friction
JONSON & NICHOLSON, BERGER PAINTS, ASIAN PAINT,
CENTURY DOORS, DURO, SWASTIK, A1WOODEN/A-1TEAK,
GODREJ, DORMA, DORSET, HAFELE,KICH,ARCH,KAFF
HETTICH, DORMA, ALUALPHA by LGF Sysmac, DORSET
8  MDF Board/Commercial Board/Particle
board/BWP marine Ply/WPC board
Glass / Glazing
GREENPLY,GREENLAM, CENTURYPLY, MERINO
Modi Guard / Saint-Gobain / Gold Plus Glass
NITCO, SOMANY, HINDWARE,KAJARIA, RAK,
Merino Laminates / Greenlam / Century Laminates
Hardware & Fittings
Sealants / Adhesives
14  Wires & Cables
Switches, Sockets & Modular
16  MCB, RCCB, Isolators, DBs
Conduits & Accessories (PVC / GI as
Make List of Electrical items:
Godrej / Hilti / Fischer
Fevicol (Pidilite) / Sika  / Anabond
Polycab / Finolex / Havells  / RR Kabel
Anchor (Panasonic) / Legrand / Havells
L&T / Havells /  Siemens
Supreme / Finolex /  Precision
LT panels / boards, Feeder
MCB, ELCB, RCCB, DB and
RCBO. Distribution board shall be
of the same make of MCB, ELCB,
RCCB, DB and RCBO.
LT cables, 1.1 KV grade
FRLS copper wires and cables, 1.1
MILESTONE, TRICOLITE, ADLEC, ADVANCE PANEL
& SWITCHGEAR Ltd., PRISTINE, STERLING
GENERATOR, APPLICATION CONTROL PANEL,
ENGINEERS & ENGINEERS.
SIEMENS (BETA GUARD), L&T(AU), SCHNEIDER
(ACTI 9), LEGRAND (DX 3), HAGER
SIEMENS (BETA GUARD), L&T(AU), SCHNEIDER
(ACTI 9), LEGRAND (DX 3), HAGER
UNISTAR, NATIONAL, RALLISON, KEI, HAVELLS
POLYCAB, RR KABEL
UNISTAR, NATIONAL, RALLISON, KEI, HAVELLS,
POLYCAB, RR KABEL
Switch Socket accessories.
Lugs and Ferrules
Brass Compression Gland (Heavy
LEGRAND (ARTEOR), SCHNEIDER (ZENCELO), MK
(ELEMENTS), HAGER (INSYSTA), CRABTREE
COMMEX, GRIPWELL, HENSEL, DOWELL
Havells (Plantina), Crompton (Hiflo wave plus), Bajaj
(Esteem), USHA (Max Air), Orient (Wall 47), Almonard.
DOWELL, ASIAN, ACTION
Cable Lugs & Thimbles
Telephone Tag Blocks with boxes   KRONE, POUYET
PVC Conduits and Accessories
(ISI Marked, Heavy duty)
MS Conduit and Pipes
MS Conduit Accessories (Heavy
Pipes and Accessories (ISI)
Street /landscape & LED Light
BEC, PRECISION, POLY-PACK, POLYCAB,
BEC, AKG, M-KAY, STEEL CRAFT
BEC, AKG, M-KAY, STEEL CRAFT.
TATA, JINDAL, SAIL
SIGNIFY, CROMPTON, WIPRO, HAVELLS, SCHREDER,
LIGHTING TECHNOLOGIES, MUSCO, HALLIDAY,
PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ,
LED Chip for Street /landscape
and LED Light Fixtures
EXIT and Emergency Lights
PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, PROLITE
Tyco, Commscope, R&M, Molex, Panduit, Schneider
LED LIGHT FIXTURE (INDOOR)  PHILIPS, CROMPTON, WIPRO, BAJAJ, SCHREDER,
Photo Chromatic Switch
Change Over Switch
Timers & Contactors to be
mounted in DB’s
MV Contactors/Timer/ Starters
kWh Meters (Electronic Digital
type) /Multifunction Meter
Indication Lamps/Push Button
Polycarbonate Junction Boxes
Metal MCB’s enclosure
RISHAB – L&T, KAYCEE, SIEMENS, C&S,ABB
BAJAJ, WIPRO, PHILIPS
CROMPTON, AREVA, SIEMENS, KIRLOSKAR
BCH, INDUSTRIAL CONTROL, JAINSON
L&T, SOCOMEC, SIEMENS, HAGER,ABB
JINDAL, INDALCO, CENTURY
JINDAL, TATA, SAIL
L&T, SIEMENS, SCHNEIDER, HAGER, LEGRAND
L&T, SIEMENS, SCHNEIDER, LEGRAND, ABB
AREVA, SIEMENS, L&T
SCHNEIDER(CONZERV), C&S, L&T, SIEMENS,
L&T, BCH, GE
CROMPTON GREAVES, ORIENT, HAVELLS, UHSA,
MEM, PROFAB, RICO, INDIATECH, RMCON,
LEGRAND, MK, SCHNEIDER
HENSEL, CLIPSAL, MENEKKES
HILTI, FISCHER, BOSCH, WUNH
FINOLEX, HAVELLS, BELDON
LEGRAND, HAVELLS, HAGER, INDOASIAN,
JEF ECOSAFE, ERICO, TEREC PLUS
TIRUPATI, GEMINI, REX ,TRICOLITE
SCHNEIDER, VERTIV, SOCOMEC, NUMERIC, ABB,
Sealed Maintenance free Batteries   EXIDE, QUANTA AMARON, INNER ROCKET,
Street Light GRP Poles
PU paints on street light GRP
SCHREDER, PHILIPS, BAJAJ, CREATIVE COMPOSITE,
AZKO NOBEL, ASIAN
Note: Superintending Engineer, IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to add or delete any material and brands in the
list of preferred material/brands on the recommendation of Engineer-In –charge.
SCOPE OF WORK:
The work shall be carried out as per CPWD Specifications, relevant IS Codes, and directions of the Engineer-
in-Charge. The scope of work includes:
1 Aluminium Partitions & Shutters
Providing and fixing aluminium partitions and shutters with powder-coated sections, including glazing
and MDF panels, complete with all fittings, hardware, alignment, and anchoring to floors/walls/ceilings.
2. Electrical Works
Carrying out all associated electrical works including wiring, conduits, switches, sockets, lighting fixtures,
shifting/provision of points, testing, and commissioning to suit the new partitions and shutters.
Note: The scope of work is indicative and includes all operations, materials, labour, tools, plants, scaffolding,
transportation, and incidentals required to complete the work in all respects as per specifications and directions
of the Engineer-in-Charge, even if not specifically mentioned herein.
Schedule of Quantities
S. No.ItemQtyUnitRateAmount1ProvidingandfixingpartitionuptoceilingheightconsistingofG.I.frameandrequiredboard,includingprovidingandfixingofframeworkmadeofspecialsectionpowerpressed/rollformG.I.sheetwithzinccoatingof120gms/sqm(bothsideinclusive),consistingoffloorandceilingchannel50mmwidehavingequalflangesof32mmand0.50mmthick,fixedtothefloorandceilingatthespacingof610mmcentretocentrewithdashfastenerof12.5mmdiameter50mmlengthorsuitableanchorfastenerormetalscrewswithnylonplugsandthestuds48mmwidehavingoneflangeof34mmandotherflange36mmand0.50mmthickfixedverticallywithinflangesoffloorandceilingchannelandplacedataspacingof610mmcentretocentreby6mmdiaboltsandnuts,includingfixingofstudsalongbothendsofpartitionfixedflushtowallwithsuitableanchorfastenerormetalscrewswithnylonplugsatspacingof450mmcentre to centre, andfixingofboardstobothsideofframeworkby25mmlongdrywallscrewsonstuds,floorandceilingchannelsatthespacingof300mmcentretocentre.Theboardsaretobefixedtotheframeworkwithjointsstaggeredtoavoidthroughcracks,M.S.fixingchannelof99mmwidth(0.9mmthickhavingtwoflangesof9.5mmeach)tobeprovidedatthehorizontaljointsoftwoboards,fixedtothestudsusingmetaltometalflatheadscrews,includingjointingandfinishingtoaflushfinishwithrecommendedjointingcompound,jointingtape,angle beads at corners (25 mm x 25 mm x 0.5 mm), joint finisher and two coats of primersuitableforboardaspermanufacture'sspecificationanddirectionofengineer in charge all complete.1.175mmoverallthicknesspartitionwith12.5mmthickdoubleskinfireratedGlassReinforcedGypsum(GRG)plasterboardconformingtoIS:2095:part3(Boardwith BIS certification marks)49.76Sqm2,131.10106043.542ProvidingandfixingthermalinsulationwithResinBondedrockwoolconformingtoIS:8183,havingdensity48kg/m3,50mmthick,wrappedin200GVirginPolytheneBagsfixedtowallwithscrew,rawelplug&washersandheldandinpositionbycrisscossingGIwireetc.completeasperdirectionsofEngineer-in-Charge.49.76Sqm322.5016047.603Providingandapplyingwhitecementbasedputtyofaveragethickness1mm,ofapprovedbrandandmanufacturer,overtheplasteredwallsurfacetopreparethesurface even and smooth complete.99.53Sqm156.0515531.664Wallpaintingwithpremiumacrylicemulsionpaintofinteriorgrade,havingVOC(Volatile Organic Compound ) content less than 50 grams/ litre of approved brand andmanufacture,includingapplyingadditionalcoatswhereverrequiredtoachieve even shade and colour4.1Two coats99.53Sqm142.8014212.885Structuralsteelworkriveted,boltedorweldedinbuiltupsections,trussesandframedwork,includingcutting,hoisting,fixinginpositionandapplyingaprimingcoat of approved steel primer all complete.216.74Kg133.7028978.146Providingwoodworkinframesofdoors,windows,clerestorywindowsandotherframes,wroughtframedandfixedinpositionwithholdfastlugsorwithdashfastenersofrequireddia&length(holdfastlugsordashfastenershallbepaidforseparately).6.1Second class teak wood0.110Cum1,42,949.7015724.477ProvidingandfixingISImarkedflushdoorshuttersconformingtoIS:2202(PartI)non-decorativetype,coreofblockboardconstructionwithframeof1stclasshardwoodandwellmatchedcommercial3plyveneeringwithverticalgrainsorcross bands and face veneers on both faces of shutters:7.135mmthickincludingISImarkedStainlessSteelbutthingeswithnecessaryscrews9.24Sqm2,392.6522108.098Extraforprovidinglippingwith2ndclassteakwoodbattens25mmminimumdepthonalledgesofflushdoorshutters(overallareaofdoorshuttertobemeasured).9.240Sqm462.354272.119Providing & Fixing decorative high pressure laminated sheet of plain / wood grain ingloss/matt/suedefinishwithhighdensityprotectivesurfacelayerandreversesideofadhesivebondingqualityconformingtoIS:2046TypeS,includingcostof adhesive of approved quality9.11.0 mm thick59.35Sqm897.3053254.76Schedule of quantity: Partition and Electrical work in bay-2,3,4 of W 17 Berm in IIT Jodhpur.Sub Head (A) :- Civil
10ProvidingandfixingIS:12817markedstainlesssteelbutthingeswithstainlesssteel screws etc. complete :10.1 100X58X1.90 mm3.00each 107.10321.3011Providingandfixingaluminiumextrudedsectionbodytubulartypeuniversalhydraulicdoorcloser(havingbrandlogowithISi,IS:3564,embossedonthebody,doorweightupto36kgto80kganddoorwidthfrom701mmto1000mm),withdoublespeedadjustmentwithnecessaryaccessoriesandscrewsetc.complete.5.00Each983.154915.7512Providingandfixingbrightfinishedbrasshangingtypefloordoorstopperwithnecessary screws, etc. complete.5.00Each121.65608.2513Providingandfixingbrightfinishedbrass100mmmorticelatchandlockwith6leversandapairofleverhandlesofapprovedqualitywithnecessaryscrewsetc.complete.5.00Each854.654273.2514Providingandfixingbrightfinishedbrasstowerbolts(barreltype)withnecessaryscrews etc. complete :14.1250x10 mm4.00Each441.601766.4015Providingandfixingaluminiumworkfordoors,windows,ventilatorsandpartitionswithextrudedbuiltupstandardtubularsections/appropriateZsectionsandothersectionsofapprovedmakeconformingtoIS:733andIS:1285,fixingwithdashfastenersofrequireddiaandsize,includingnecessaryfillingupthegapsatjunctions,i.e.attop,bottomandsideswithrequiredEPDMrubber/neoprenegasketetc.Aluminiumsectionsshallbesmooth,rustfree,straight,mitredandjointedmechanicallywhereverrequiredincludingcleatangle,Aluminiumsnapbeadingforglazing/paneling,C.P.brass/stainlesssteelscrews,allcompleteasperarchitecturaldrawingsandthedirectionsofEngineer-in-charge. (Glazing, paneling and dash fasteners to be paid for separately) :15.1For fixed portion15.1.1Powder coated aluminium (minimum thickness of powder coating 50 micron)193.50Kg530.90102729.1515.2Forshuttersofdoors,windows&ventilatorsincludingprovidingandfixinghinges/pivotsandmakingprovisionforfixingoffittingswhereverrequiredincludingthecostofEPDMrubber/neoprenegasketrequired(Fittingsshallbepaid for separately)15.2.1Powder coated aluminium (minimum thickness of powder coating 50 micron)25.41Kg634.4516121.3716ProvidingandfixingPre-laminatedmediumdensityfibreboardexteriorgrade(Grade-I)IS:14587:1998marked,toframe,backingorstuddingwithscrewsetc.complete (Frames, backing or studding to be paid separately).16.1Pre-laminatedwithdecorativelaminationonbothsideexteriorGrade-IMDFBoard 12 mm thick conforming to IS:1458722.20Sqm1,031.5022899.3017Providingandfixingglazinginaluminiumdoor,window,ventilatorshuttersandpartitionsetc.withEPDMrubber/neoprenegasketetc.completeasperthearchitectural drawings and the directions of engineer-in-charge .17.1With float glass panes of 8 mm thickness10.23sqm1,685.4017241.6418Providingandfixing19mmthickbothsidebalancinglaminationfactorypressedBWPgrademarineplyasperIS:710ofapprovedbrandboxes,shelves,racks,almirah,cupboardanddraweretc.includingnecessarynails,screws etc. complete as per direction of Engineer-incharge.18.99sqm2,593.1549243.9219Providingandlayingmattfinishedvitrifiedtileofsize300x300x9.8mmhavingwithwaterabsorptionlessthan0.5%andconformingtoIS:15622ofapprovedmakeinallcoloursandshadesinforoutdoorfloorssuchasfootpath,courtyard,multimodalslocationetc.,laidon20mmthickbaseofcementmortar1:4(1cement:4coarsesand)inallshapes&patternsincludinggroutingthejointswithwhitecementmixedwithmatchingpigmentsetc.completeasperdirectionofEngineer-in-Charge.64.35sqm1,455.6593671.08Total of DSR Items Rs.₹ 5,89,964.66Total after applying Correction Factor on DSR as per CPWD Latest OM @0.973 on (i) Rs.₹ 5,74,035.61Total of NDSR Items Rs.₹ 0.00Total amount DSR+NDSR (ii+iii) Rs.₹ 5,74,036.00
S. No.Item DescriptionQty.UnitRateTotal amount.1Wiring for circuit/submain wiring alongwith earth wire with the following sizes of FRLS PVC insulated cooper conductor, single core cable in surface/recessed medium class PVC  conduit as required.1.12x2.5sqmm+1x2.5sqmm earth wire.170.00Metre.311.0052870.001.22x10sqmm+1x6sqmm earth wire15.00Metre.621.009315.002Supplying  and  fixing  following  modular  switch/  socket  on  the existing  modular  plate  &  switch  box  including  connections but excluding modular plate etc. as required.2.115/16 A switch12.00Each176.002112.002.26 pin 15/16 A socket outlet12.00Each219.002628.003Supplying and fixing following size/ modules, GI box alongwith modular base & cover plate for modular switches in recess etc. as required.3.103 module (200mmx75mm).12.00Each384.004608.005Supplying and fixing following way, single pole and neutal, sheet steel, MCB distribution board, 240V, on surface/recess complete wth tinned cooper bus bar, neutral bus bar, earth bus bar, din bar, interconnection, powder painted including earthing etc as required. (But without MCB/RCCB/isolator).5.112 Way, Double Door1.00Each2871.002871.006Supplying and fixing 5A to 32A rating, 240V/415V, 10KA, "C" curve, miniature circuit breaker, suitable for inductive load of following poles in the existing MCB DB complete with connections, testing and commossioning etc as required. 6.1Single pole10.00Each285.002850.007Supplying and fixing following rating, double pole, 240V, isolator in the existing MCB DB complete with connections, testing and commossioning etc as required. 7.163A1.00Each569.00569.0077823.00651859.00Grand Total Civil+Electrical Rs.SH (B) :- ElectricalTotal Electrical work amount Rs.
JE(Civil-III)            JE(Electrical)                 AEE(Civil-II)           AEE(Electrical-I)                EE(Civil)                 SE
Name of the Bidder/ Bidding Firm / Company :NUMBER #TEXT #NUMBER #TEXT #NUMBERNUMBER #TEXT #Sl.No.Item DescriptionQuantityUnitsEstimated Rate inRs.      P (including GST)TOTAL AMOUNT  including Taxes inRs.      PTOTAL AMOUNT In Words12345671.01Partition and electrical works in Bays–2, 3, 4 of W-17 Berm 1.000each651859.00651859.00INR  Six Lakh Fifty One Thousand Eight Hundred & Fifty Nine  OnlyTotal in Figures651859.00INR  Six Lakh Fifty One Thousand Eight Hundred & Fifty Nine  OnlyQuoted Rate in FiguresSelect0.00INR Zero OnlyQuoted Rate in WordsPRICE SCHEDULE(This BOQ template must not be modified/replaced by the bidder and the same should be uploaded after filling the relevent columns, else the bidder is liable to be rejected for this tender. Bidders are allowed to enter the Bidder Name and Values only )INR Zero OnlyPercentage BoQTender Inviting Authority: Superintending Engineer ,OIE-IIT JodhpurName of Work: Partition and electrical works in Bays–2, 3, 4 of W-17 Berm Contract No:   IITJ/OIE/2025-26/41ValidatePrintHelp