Environmental Engineering | Civil and Infrastructure Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
The Environmental Engineering laboratory is equipped with state-of-the art water quality testing and air quality monitoring instruments along with automatic weather station. The water quality research group is interested in advanced techniques for water treatment, environmental application and implication of nanotechnology. They are also exploring the possibility of application of AI/ML based technique in the field of water technology. The air quality experts are working on identification and characterization of air pollution sources. They are also engaged in climate and air pollution modelling using  chemistry-climate models which can analyze air quality and associated impacts on climate, human health and vegetation.
The Thermo Scientific Evolution One Plus UV-Vis Spectrophotometer is a versatile analytical instrument widely used for qualitative and quantitative analysis of samples by measuring the absorption of ultraviolet (190–400 nm) and visible (400–800 nm) light which offers variable spectral bandwidths (1.0 nm and 2.0 nm). It operates on the Beer-Lambert Law, where absorbance is proportional to concentration. Being an essential tool in environmental engineering for analyzing water pollutants, soil contamination, and molecular studies, making it ideal for environmental monitoring and research. Its rapid, reagent-free analysis ensures cost-effective and non-destructive testing. With applications in water treatment optimization and ecosystem monitoring, it plays a critical role in sustainable remediation strategies.
pH and Conductivity Meter
PG Laboratory PM 2.5 Sampler
Automatic Weather Station
Air Quality Monitoring Lab
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 09 Mar 2026 - 09:58 AM