INDIAN SOCIETY OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
23    ISME International Conference on
Recent Advances in Mechanical Engineering
December 17 - 19, 2025
Jointly organized by
Department of Mechanical Mechatronics Engineering,
The LNM Institute of Information Technology
Jaipur, Rajasthan, India
ISME International Conference - 2025
Engineering and Technology for the Future of Mankind
Jointly organized by
Dept. of Mech. Engg.,
Dept. of Mech.
Dept. of Mech. Engg.,
Under the aegis of
Indian Society of Mechanical Engineers
About the Conference
23      ISME  International  Conference  –  2025  will  be  held  in  the  picturesque  pink  city  of  India,
Jaipur  from  December  17  -  19,  2025.  The  intention  is  to  setup  an  environment  for  knowledge
sharing  between  international  and  national  academia  and  industry  experts.  To  blend  some
outdoor  fun  with  the  inspiring  keynote  addresses  and  expert  lectures,  a  half  day  city  tour  has
been planned on Saturday, December 19.
The conference organizers look forward to all those working in various domains of Mechanical
Engineering  to  showcase  their  excellence  as  well  as  challenges  faced  in  diverse  technological
advancements.  The  conference  will  cover  a  wide  array  of  topics  listed  on  page  4  of  this
brochure.  The  special  theme  of  this  conference  is  integration  of  AI/ML  into  mechanical
This  conference  which  is  23      in  series  of  ISME  conferences  is  being  jointly  organized  by  IIT
Jodhpur,  LNMIIT  Jaipur  and  MNIT  Jaipur  under  the  aegis  of  Indian  Society  of  Mechanical
ISME was setup on 26 February 1976 with registration No. 7980 under the government of NCT of
Delhi,  India.  The  society  aims  at  providing  a  forum  for  exchanging  ideas,  technological
developments, and inspiring mechanical engineers to pursue new directions in the broad field
of Mechanical Engineering. For achieving the aims since the inception of the ISME, the society
has been holding annual ISME conferences on Mechanical Engineering which have been quite
popular amongst the research fraternity of academia and industries. The ISME has been one of
the  most  active  technical  organizations  of  the  country,  which  has  been  publishing  three
journals, holding workshops and various courses at regular interval of time. ISME is now actively
engaged in creating student chapters in different engineering institutes and universities.
About IIT Jodhpur
Indian  Institute  of  Technology  (IIT)  Jodhpur  was  established  in  2008,  to  foster  technology
education  and  research  in  India.  The  Institute  is  committed  to  technological  thought  and
action to benefit the economic development of India.
The Institute is committed to multidisciplinary approach of technology development. Hence, it
has  established  state-of-the-art  laboratories  for  basic  and  applied  research  and  has  organized
its  academic  degree  activities  through  departments  and  its  coordinated  research  through
Centers for Technologies.
About LNMIIT Jaipur
The  LNM  Institute  of  Information  Technology  (LNMIIT),  is  a  deemed-to-be-university,  located  in
Jaipur, India. The institute is a public-private partnership venture between the LUM Foundation and
the Government of Rajasthan and operates as an autonomous non-profit organization.
The  Department  of  Mechanical-Mechatronics  Engineering  has  seen  considerable  growth  since  its
inception.  Department  offers  B.Tech.  and  Ph.D.  programs  in  Mechanical  Engineering.  There  are  17
state-of-the-art  laboratories  and  two  active  student  chapters  in  the  department  viz.  American
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE). The department
is going to start ISME student chapter.
The  LNMIIT  International  Centre  for  Artificial  Intelligence  (LICAI)  established  by  the  LNMIIT  is
committed to supporting the development of AI-based solutions.
About MNIT Jaipur
The Institute was jointly established in 1963 as Malaviya Regional Engineering College Jaipur by
the Govt. of India and the Govt of Rajasthan. Subsequently, on 26 June, 2002, the college was
given  the  status  of  National  Institute  of  Technology  and  was  recognized  as  the  Institute  of
National Importance through an Act of Parliament.
The  Department  of  Mechanical  Engineering  offers  B.Tech.,  M.Tech.,  and  Ph.D.  degrees.  An
extremely dynamic and large faculty and a well experienced support staff, give the Department
a  breadth  of  research  focus  and  wide  range  of  technical  expertise.  Apart  from  teaching,  the
faculty is engaged in diverse research areas.
Call for the Papers
23        ISME  International  Conference  -  2025  invites  prospective  authors  to  submit  a  full  paper  of
eight  to  ten  pages.  All  submissions  will  be  double-blind  peer-reviewed  and  evaluated  based  on
originality, research content, correctness, and relevance to conference tracks.
For  the  template  of  paper  and  other  related  information,  please  visit  https://lnmiit.ac.in/isme-
Track 1:  Machine Design
Automobile,  EVs  and  Vehicle  Dynamics,  Biomechanics,  CAD,  CAE,  FEM,  Modelling  and
Simulation,  Computational  Mechanics,  Engineering  Optimization,  Fatigue,  Fracture  &  Failure
Analysis, Fracture Mechanics, Machines and Mechanisms, Mechanics of Composites, Multi-body
Dynamics,  Product  Design  and  Development,  Robotics  and  Mechatronics,  Rotor  Dynamics,
Vibrations and Condition Monitoring, Sensors & Actuators, Tribology.
Track 2: Materials, Manufacturing and Industrial Engineering
Additive  Manufacturing,  CIM,  CAM,  Modeling  and  Simulation,  Composite  Materials,  Powder
Metallurgy,  Conventional/Unconventional  Machining,  Functionally  graded  materials,  Industry
5.0,  Maintenance  Engineering,  Machine  Tools,  Materials  Characterization,  Micro  and  Nano
Manufacturing,  Product  Life  Cycle  Management,  Reliability  Engineering,  Quality  Engineering,
Renewable  Materials,  Rapid  Prototyping,  Smart  Materials,  Smart  Manufacturing,  Supply  Chain
Management, Surface Science and Engineering, Welding, Casting, Forming.
Track 3: Thermal, Fluid and Energy Engineering
Alternative  Fuels,  Colloidal  and  Suspensions,  Combustion  &  Pollution,
Computational  Fluid  Dynamics,  Desiccant  systems,  Droplet  and  spray  evaporation,    Fluid
Mechanics  and  Fluid  Machinery,    Flow  measurements,  Green  Energy  and  Energy  Harvesting,
Heat Exchangers, Heat and Mass Transfer, Multi-phase Flow, Refrigeration and Air-conditioning,
Renewable  Sources  of  Energy,  Thermal  Energy  Storage,  Thermal  Systems  Simulation,  Thermal
Management of Batteries.
Conference Theme and Student Participation
Research papers with Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning theme in all three tracks
are especially welcome.
Students may participate by presenting relevant research work using Posters. There will be
awards for outstanding posters.
Conference Opens for submission of Abstracts
Last Date for Submission of Abstract
Abstract Acceptance Notification
Last Date of Full-Length Manuscript Submission
Manuscript Acceptance Notification
Registration of Author Ends
March 1, 2025
May 31, 2025
July 31, 2025
September 30, 2025
November 17, 2025
May 2, 2025
November 17, 2025
December 17 - 19, 2025
At    least    one    author  of  each    accepted    paper    must    register    in    order  for  the  paper  to    be
included  in  the  proceedings.  Student  registrations  are  only  acceptable  if  first  author  of  the
paper is a registered student from an Institution.
Registration Fees (18% GST Extra) for:
Participants from Industry:          ₹10,000 (General Participants),  ₹8000 (ISME Member)
Faculty from Academia:                ₹6,000 (General Participants),   ₹4500  (ISME member)
Research Scholars /students:       ₹3,000 (General Participants),   ₹2000 (ISME Member)
Foreign Delegates:                           $ 300 USD
Account Name:  The LNM Institute of Information Technology
Account Number:  51089005531
Bank name:  State Bank of India (SBI)
Branch:  SBI, Secretariat, Jaipur, Rajasthan
IFSC Code:  SBIN0031031
MICR Code:  302002103
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Rahul Banerjee
Director, LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. N. P. Padhy
Director, MNIT Jaipur
Prof. Suril Shah, Head, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Rahul Chhibber, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Jodhpur
Prof. T. C. Gupta, Head, Dept. of Mech. Engg., MNIT Jaipur
Prof. Jyotirmay Mathur, Dept. of Mech. Engg., MNIT Jaipur
Prof. Deepak R. Unune, Head, Dept. of Mech.-Mechatronics Engg., LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Vikas Sharma, Dept. of Mech.-Mechatronics Engg., LNMIIT Jaipur
Steering Committee Members
Prof. S. P. Singh, IIT Delhi, Chairman-ISME
Prof. R. K. Pandey, IIT Delhi, Vicechairman-ISME
Prof. Bhupinder Godara, IIT Delhi, Secretary-ISME
Prof. S. Hedge, IIT Delhi, Treasurer-ISME
Prof. Satish V. Kailas, IISc Bengaluru
Prof. Sunil Pandey, Dept. of Mech.-Mechatronics Engg., LNMIIT
Prof. C. V. Chandrashekhar, PES University, Member-ISME
Prof. Hirshikesh, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Atul Kumar Sharma, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Dilip Sharma, Dept. of Mech. Engg., MNIT Jaipur
Prof. Rajeev Agrawal, Dept. of Mech. Engg., MNIT Jaipur
Prof. Ashok Kumar Dargar, Dept. of Mech.-Mechatronics Engg., LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Servesh K Agnihotri, Dept. of Mech.-Mechatronics Engg., LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Binod Kanaujia, Director, Dr B R Ambedkar NIT Jalandhar
Prof. Gautam Sutradhar, Director, NIT Jamshedpur
Prof. M. K. Paswan, Director, SLIET, Longowal
Prof. Lalit Kumar Awasthi, VC, Sardar Patel University,  Mandi, Himachal Pradesh
Prof. Sachin Maheshwari, VC, Guru Jambheshwar University, Moradabad
Prof. U. S. Dixit, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Guwahati
Prof. P. M. Pandey, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. Sudarsan Ghosh, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. B. Premachandran, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. D. Ravi Kumar, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. Bahni Ray, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. S. G. Deshmukh, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. Varun Ram Mohan, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. Jayant Kumar Dutt, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. Aravindan S, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. M. R. Ravi, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. Kaushik Mukherjee, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Delhi
Prof. J. Ramkumar, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Kanpur
Prof. Rajiv Tiwari, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Guwahati
Prof. Anand Parey, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Indore
Prof. Kai Cheng, Dept. of Mech. and Aero. Engg., Brunel, University of London
Prof. Christos N. Markides, Head of the Clean Energy Process. Lab., Imperial College London
Prof. Giuseppe Pintaude, Federal University of Technology - Paraná
Prof. Maneesh Singh, Dept. of Mech. and Marine Engg, Høgskulen på Vestlandet, Norway
Prof. Pradeep Kundu, Dept. of Mech. Engg., KU Leuven
Prof. Anil Kumar, College of Mech. and Elect. Engg., Wenzhou University, China
Dr. Sankaran Subramaniam, Senior Specialist, Eaton Corporation, USA
Mr. Praveer Gupta, Director of Patents and Innovation Strategy, USA
Prof. TVVLN Rao, Faculty of Engineering, Assam down town University, Assam
Prof. Swadesh Kumar Singh, Dept. of Mech. Engg., GRIET, Hyderabad
Prof. Inderdeep Singh, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Roorkee
Prof. Pavan Kumar Kankar, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Indore
Prof. Piyush Shakya, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Madras
Prof. Mohit Law, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Kanpur
Prof. Navin Kumar, Dept. of Mech. Engg. and Biomed. Engg., IIT Ropar
Prof. Chandrakant Kumar Nirala, Dept. of Mech. Engg. and Biomed. Engg., IIT Ropar
Prof. Harish N. Dixit, Department of Mech. and Aero. Engg., IIT Hyderabad
Prof. Prabhat Kumar, Department of Mech. and Aero. Engg., IIT Hyderabad
Prof. Sankha Deb, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Kharagpur
Prof. Vijay Pal, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Jammu.
Prof. Shiva Sekar, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Jammu.
Prof. Sahil Kalra, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Jammu.
Prof. Anshul Faye, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Bhilai
Prof. Anil Kumar Emadabathuni, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Tirupathi
Prof. Mohd. Zaheer Khan Yusufzai, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT BHU
Prof. Mamilla Ravi Sankar, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Tirupathi
Prof. Santhakumar Mohan, Dept. of Mech. Engg., IIT Palakkad
Prof. Jagadeesh Kadiyam, Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, IIT Mandi
Prof. Tameshwar Nath Tiwari, Dept. of Mech. and Auto. Engg., IIIT Bhagalpur
Prof. Sumit Sharma, Dept. of Mech. Engg., Dr. B R Ambedkar NIT, Jalandhar
Prof. D. K. Shukla, Dept. of Mech. Engg., Dr. B R Ambedkar NIT, Jalandhar
Prof. Reeta Wattal, Dept. of Mech. Engg., DTU, Delhi
Prof. Arshad Noor Siddiquee, Dept. of Mech. Engg., JMI, New Delhi
Prof. Ajay Pandey, Dept. of Mech. Engg., MANIT, Bhopal
Prof. Sarbjeet Singh, Dept. of Mech. Engg., PECU, Chandigarh
Prof. Yogesh Singh, Dept. of Mech. Engg., NIT Silchar
Prof. Vinod Kumar Sharma, Dept. of Mech. Engg., NIT Calicut
Dr. Purushottam Gangsar, Lead Engineer, Johndeere
Dr. Pavan Gupta, Air Solution R&D, LG Soft India
Local Organizing Committee
Prof. Gourhari Ghosh, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Kothadia Hardikkumar Bhupendra, IIT Jodhpur
Prof. Kamal Kishore Khatri, LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Vikram Sharma, LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Manoj Kumar, LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Mohit Makkar, LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Atul Mishra, LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Praveen Kumar Sharma, LNMIIT Jaipur
Prof. Manish Kumar, MNIT Jaipur
Prof. Naresh K Raghuwanshi, MNIT Jaipur
Prof. Nikhil Sharma, MNIT Jaipur
Prof. Tapas Bajpai, MNIT Jaipur
On  campus  air-conditioned  accommodation  at  LNMIIT  is  available  for  participants  on
payment basis as per institute policy.
Hotels  in  city  (The  Fern  Residency  and  Ramada  by  Wyndham)  can  also  be  contacted  for
accommodation. Accommodation in nearby resorts such as Kanota Camp and Hillside Resort
can be explored.
Platinum Sponsorship:   ₹3,00,000
Gold Sponsorship:            ₹1,00,000
Exhibition Stall (6'x8'):     ₹40,000
(For more details, see overleaf).
Diamond Sponsorship:   ₹2,00,000
Silver Sponsorship:           ₹50,000
There will be Best paper Award for each Track. Cash prize of INR 5000.
Networking Dinner on the first day (Accompanied will be charged extra).
Half-Day Excursion to nearby place in Jaipur.
Interactive Poster sessions during Hi-Tea.
For more information, contact:
Dr. Servesh K Agnihotri
Department of Mechanical-Mechatronics Engineering,
The LNM Institute of Information Technology, Jaipur
The LNMIIT Institute of Information Technology,
Gram-Rupa ki Nangal, Post-Sumel, Via, Jamdoli,
Free registration for two (02) participants,
One stall, Top position in banners,
Logo on the conference website / proceedings / banners / brochure,
A 5 min talk will be provided for introducing your company,
Conference Booklet - one full page for message (matter to be provided),
Promotional videos that play during starting of each session, end and breaks on all days,
Free registration for one (01) participant and 50% discount for second participant,
One stall. Second position in banners,
Logo on the conference website / proceedings / banners / brochure,
Conference Booklet - Inside half page for message (matter to be provided),
Promotional videos (10 sec - 30 sec) that loop/play during breaks on all days,
50% discount on the registration fee for the two (02) participants,
50% discount on one (01) stall. Ads in banners,
Logo on the conference website / proceedings / banners/ conference booklet,
Promotional videos (10 sec - 30 sec) that loop/play during starting and end on all days,
50% discount on the registration fee for the one (01) participant,
One (01) stand for poster/product details etc. in the poster presentation area,
Advertisement through poster inside the Conference Venue,
Ads in banners. Logo on conference website / conference booklet,
50% discount on the registration fee for the one (01) participant,
One (01) stand for poster/product details etc. in the poster presentation area,
For sponsorship, contact :
Dr. Ashok K Dargar
Department of Mechanical-Mechatronics Engineering,
The LNM Institute of Information Technology, Jaipur