Publications | School of Artificial Intelligence & Data Science | IIT Jodhpur
University Library of Munich
Implications of Banking Regulations on Online Payment Failures
Authors: Aditi Chawla, Ganesh Manjhi, Gaurav Bhattacharya
Twisted string actuation through a conduit: Undesirable behaviors and pre-twist effects
Authors: B. Suthar and J. H. Ryu,
The Journal of Behavioral Science
Beyond exchange relationship: Exploring the link between organizational justice, job involvement, and citizenship behavior
Authors: Abhishek Sharma and A. Sharma
Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland
Fetal gene variants associated with birth weight protection in a native high altitude Ladakhi population
Authors: Sushil Bhandari, Padma Dolma, Mitali Mukerji, Bhavana Prasher, Hugh Montgomery, Dalvir Kular, Vandana Jain, Vatsla Dadhwal, David J Williams, Aniket Bhattacharyaa, Edmund Gilbert, Gianpiero Cavalleri, Sara L Hillman
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control
Automated detection of Hypertensive Retinopathy using few-shot learning
Authors: S Suman, AK Tiwari, T Ingale, K Singh
Current Psychiatry Research and Reviews
Association between COVID-19 pandemic and serious mental illness: Systematic review within salutogenesis model for public health management.
Authors: Kaman, S., Sharma, A., & Banerjee, R.
International Journal of Online & Biomedical Engineering
Neurofeedback training for social cognitive deficits: a systematic review
Authors: M. Kumari and A. Sharma
Applied Economics Letters
Infant malnutrition, clean-water access and government interventions in India: a machine learning approach towards causal inference
Authors: Dweepobotee Brahma, Debasri Mukherjee
Optimal stopping in list-based decisions
Authors: Saptarshi Mukherjee, Ruhi Sonal, Abhinaba Lahiri
Can wisdom be fostered: Time to test the model of wisdom
Authors: A. Sharma and R. L. Dewangan
BRO Neuroscience Reports
EFFECTIVENESS OF VIRTUAL REALITY BASED INTERVENTION ON SLEEP: A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW
Authors: K Sharma, S Dhaka
Journal of Higher Education Theory and Practice
What Doesn’t Break You Makes You Wiser: An Experimental Validation of Personal Wisdom Development Through Regret Handling and Personality Dispositions
Authors: Ankita Sharma,Abhishek Sharma
Humanities & Social Sciences Reviews
Decision making in the era of infobesity: A study on interaction of gender and psychological tendencies
Authors: S. Maidullah and A. Sharma
Biomedical Signal Processing and Control
Barnes–Hut approximation based accelerating t-SNE for seizure detection
Authors: S Rukhsar, AK Tiwari
Research on Biomedical Engineering
Automatic grading of non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy
Authors: S. Suman, A. K. Tiwari, and K. Singh
Early warning signs: targeting neonatal and infant mortality using machine learning
Authors: Dweepobotee Brahma, Debasri Mukherjee
IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems
A Decade of the Z-Numbers
Authors: Banerjee, Romi, Sankar K. Pal, and Jayanta Kumar Pal.
Resting-State functional networks of different topographic representations in the somatosensory cortex of macaque monkeys and humans
Authors: John Thomas, Dixit Sharma, Sounak Mohanta, Neeraj Jain
Biomarkers in Medicine
Pharmacogenomic biomarkers in coronary artery disease: a narrative review
Authors: Pamila Dua, Sandeep Seth, Bhavana Prasher, Mitali Mukerji, Subir Kumar Maulik, KH Reeta
Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine
Lightweight convolution transformer for cross-patient seizure detection in multi-channel EEG signals
Authors: S. Rukhsar and A. K. Tiwari,
Cerebral Cortex Communications
Structural-and-dynamical similarity predicts compensatory brain areas driving the post-lesion functional recovery mechanism
Authors: Priyanka Chakraborty, Suman Saha, Gustavo Deco, Arpan Banerjee, Dipanjan Roy
Frontiers in Neuroinformatics
Explainable deep-learning framework: decoding brain states and prediction of individual performance in false-belief task at early childhood stage
Authors: Bhavna, Km, Azman Akhtar, Romi Banerjee, and Dipanjan Roy
Annals of Operations Research
Towards sharing economy 2.0 with autonomous vehicles? Modeling the impact of COVID-19 on the e-hailing taxi service industry
Authors: S Srivatsa Srinivas, Rahul R Marathe
Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine
Computer-aided diagnostic system for hypertensive retinopathy: A review
Authors: S. Suman, A. K. Tiwari, and K. Singh
Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering
Detection of eye closing/opening from EOG and its application in robotic arm control
Authors: Kamal Sharma, Neeraj Jain, Prabir K Pal
On the modelling of speed–concentration curves for multi-class traffic lacking lane discipline using area occupancy
Authors: Ranju Mohan
Journal of neurophysiology
Chronic recordings reveal tactile stimuli can suppress spontaneous activity of neurons in somatosensory cortex of awake and anesthetized primates
Authors: Hui-Xin Qi, Jamie L Reed, Joao G Franca, Neeraj Jain, Yoshinao Kajikawa, Jon H Kaas
Neuromolecular interactions guiding homeostatic mechanisms underlying healthy ageing: A view from computational microscope
Authors: Saha, S., Chakraborty, P., Naskar, A., Roy, D.† , & Banerjee, A
Dynamic Games and Applications
A Dynamic Analysis of Special Interest Politics and Electoral Competition
Authors: Ganesh Manjhi, Meeta Keswani Mehra
To increase or to decrease the price? Managing public transport queues during COVID-19 in the presence of strategic commuters
Authors: S Srivatsa Srinivas
Design of robotic finger using twisted string actuator with modular passive return rotational joints to achieve high grasping force: Application to wearable sixth finger
Authors: Bhivraj Suthar, Mohammad I Awad, Lakmal Seneviratne, Yahya Zweiri, Irfan Hussain
Propagation of transient explosive synchronization in a mesoscale mouse brain network model of epilepsy
Authors: Avinash Ranjan, Saurabh R. Gandhi
Characterization of the Temporal Stability of ToM and Pain Functional Brain Networks Carry Distinct Developmental Signatures during Naturalistic Viewing
Authors: Km Bhavna, Niniva Ghosh, Romi Banerjee, Dipanjan Roy
How pupil tracks cognitive processes underlying internally- and externally-directed attention tasks
Authors: Shilpa Dang, Adarsh Palaskar
Early warning signs: targeting neonatal and infant mortality using machine learning
Authors: Dweepobotee Brahma, Debasri Mukherjee
Implications of Banking Regulations on Online Payment Failures
Authors: Aditi Chawla, Ganesh Manjhi, Gaurav Bhattacharya
International Conference on Pattern Recognition and Machine Intelligence,
Cortical Circuits of Context Adaptability: Understanding the Neurobehavioral Mechanisms Underlying Flexible Behavior
Authors: S. Kaman, A. Sharma, and R. Banerjee
MGlove-TS: A modular soft glove based on twisted string actuators and flexible structures
Authors: M. Dragusanu, D. Troisi, B. Suthar, I. Hussain, D. Prattichizzo, and M. Malvezzi,
Journal of Intelligent & Fuzzy Systems
On intelligent Prakriti assessment in Ayurveda: a comparative study
Authors: Saibal Majumder, Rintu Kutum, Debnarayan Khatua, Arif Ahmed Sekh, Samarjit Kar, Mitali Mukerji, Bhavana Prasher
International Journal of Engineering Trends and Technology
Examining Three Connected Concepts: Social Impairment and STEM; Broader Autism Phenotype; and Convergence Validity in Autistic Trait Screening Tools
Authors: M. Kumari and A. Sharma
Current opinion in neurobiology
Transient oscillations as computations for cognition: Analysis, modeling and function
Authors: Robert Schmidt, Jonas Rose, Vignesh Muralidharan
Behavior research methods
Failing to attend versus failing to stop: Single-trial decomposition of action-stopping in the stop signal task
Authors: Ricci Hannah, Vignesh Muralidharan, Adam R Aron
Altered global modular organization of intrinsic functional connectivity in autism arises from atypical node-level processing
Authors: Priyanka Sigar, Lucina Q. Uddin, Dipanjan Roy
Current Psychiatry Research and Reviews Formerly: Current Psychiatry Reviews
Association Between COVID-19 Pandemic and Serious Mental Illness: Systematic Review within Salutogenesis Model for Public Health Management
Authors: Kaman, Sweta, Ankita Sharma, and Romi Banerjee
Social Choice and Welfare
Stochastic same-sidedness in the random voting model
Authors: Stochastic same-sidedness in the random voting model
Altered expression of reorganized inputs as they ascend from the cuneate nucleus to cortical area 3b in monkeys with long-term spinal cord injuries
Authors: Priyabrata Halder, Niranjan Kambi, Prem Chand, Neeraj Jain
dentifying the impact of social isolation and loneliness on psychological well-being among the elderly in old-age homes of India: the mediating role of gender, marital status, and education
Authors: Mishra, B., Pradhan, J. & Dhaka, S.
IETE Technical Review
Survey of Structural Analysis in Mathematical Expression Recognition
Authors: A. K. Tiwari,Ridhi Aggarwal Shilpa Pandey and G. Harit,
IBRO Neuroscience Reports
DIFFERENTIAL EFFECT OF SLEEP AND SLEEP DEPRIVATION ON THE BEHAVIOURAL AND NEURAL PATTERNS OF RISKY DECISION-MAKING
Authors: Dhaka, Suman, and Naveen Kashyap.
Socio-Economic Planning Sciences
Averting adverse selection: The Government of India’s scheme to distribute affordable medicines
Authors: S Srivatsa Srinivas, Rahul R Marathe
Influence of claustrum on cortex varies by area, layer, and cell type
Authors: Ethan G McBride, Saurabh R Gandhi, Jacqulyn R Kuyat, Douglas R Ollerenshaw, Anton Arkhipov, Christof Koch, Shawn R Olsen
Characterization of the Temporal Stability of ToM and Pain Functional Brain Networks Carry Distinct Developmental Signatures during Naturalistic Viewing
Authors: Bhavna, Km, Niniva Ghosh, Romi Banerjee, and Dipanjan Roy
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 28 Jan 2026 - 08:18 PM