School of Liberal Arts
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
NH-62, Nagaur Road,Karwar, Jodhpur 342030, Rajasthan
Phone: (0291) 280 1401/1402; eMail: head_sola@iitj.ac.in/office_sola@iitj.ac.in
Admission to two-year M.Sc. Computational Social Science
(CSS), AY 2026-27
IIT  Jodhpur  invites  applications  for  admission  to  M.Sc.  program  in  Computational  Social  Science
offered by the School of Liberal Arts for the Semester commencing from July 2026.
The  M.Sc.  Computational  Social  Science  is  the  flagship  program  on  the  new  and  emerging  area of
Computational  Social  Science,  which  position  itself  at  the  intersection  of  the  social  sciences,
mathematics,  and  computer  science.  The  program  is  designed  to  enable  and  equip  the  learners to
adopt  and  master  computational  approaches  to  the  social  sciences,  so  that  they  can  significantly
contribute to the coming age of AI and data-driven technology.
Detailed information about the Faculty Members associated with School of Liberal Arts at IIT Jodhpur
can be obtained from the Institute website at https://iitj.ac.in/school-of-liberal-arts/
A.  Application Procedure
Applicants are requested to use the following link to fill and submit the application form online:
Sports Quota: https://erponline.iitj.ac.in/Admission/index?admiss_ch=53
For  admission  to  the  First  Semester  of the AY 2026-27 commencing in July 2026, this online link will
remain active till 10th March 2026
Applicants belonging to GEN-UR, GEN-EWS, and OBC categories are required to pay a processing fee of
Rs.300  online,  while  SC,  ST,  and  PD  applicants  need  to  pay  Rs.150  during  the  submission  of  their
application  forms  and  it  non  refundable.   It  may  be  noted  that  there  is  no  provision  to  edit  the
Application  Form  in  the  ERP  Portal  of  the  Institute  after the final submission of the Application Form.
Application Form with incomplete/ incorrect details will be outrightly rejected.
In  case  of  any  query  with  respect  to  online  application,  applicants  may  contact  the  ERP
team on Email: erp@iitj.ac.in, phone number: 0291-2801176
Other general queries between 10.00 am to 5.00 pm, on working days, may be directed at
1) Office of School of Liberal Arts: 0291-280-1402; email: office_sola@iitj.ac.in
2) Sola Faculty: Dr. Soni: 0291-280-1429; email: soni@iitj.ac.in
Applicants  shortlisted  for  the  admission  process  will  be  required  to  bring  the  final  submitted
application  form  duly  signed  along  with  a  copy  of  all  educational  testimonials  at  the  time  of
B. Eligibility for Admission
The  eligibility  criteria  prescribed  below  are  the  absolute  minimum.  The  relaxation  for  SC/ST/PD
candidates  in  the  qualifying  degree  marks  is  as  per  Ministry  of  Education  rules,  as  amended  from
time to time.
Marks obtained in Qualifying Degree
At  least  60%  marks  or  6.0/10  Cumulative
Performance  Index  (CPI)  or  Cumulative
GEN/EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST/PD)
A  minimum  of  Bachelor’s  degree  or  an  equivalent
qualification  with  any  of  the  following  subjects:
Economics,  Sociology,  Psychology,  Political  Science,
Computer  Science,  Mathematics,  Statistics,  all
Engineering  disciplines  awarded  by  any  university
established  by  an  Act  of  central  or  state legislature
in  India,  or  by  other  educational
established by the act of Parliment, or recognized as
a  deemed  university  under  section  3  of  UGC  act,
1956.  Additionally,  Bachelor’s  degree  or  equivalent
must  entail  a  minimum  of  three  years  of  education
following  completion  of  higher  secondary  schooling
(10+2)  or  its  equivalent.   [Mathematics up to Class
XII is desirable].
C. Reservation Policy
The  norms  of  reservation  for  different  categories  shall  be  adopted  as  laid  down  by  the  Ministry  of
Education, Government of India, as amended from time to time.
D.  Sports Quota
Two supernumerary seats under the regular admission category shall be given under sports quota. The
Sports  Quota  will  be  available  to  only  those  sportspersons  who  can  produce  certification  about
securing  top  three  positions  (in  team  or  individual  events)  in  national  or  international  tournaments
approved by SAI or other recognized sports federations or who were part of national team at junior or
senior  level  in  tournaments  approved  by  these  institutions. This will include both outdoor and indoor
sports. See Annexure -I  for details and link for sports quota applications.
E.  Important Dates
Opening of the application form
Closing date of application form
Announcement of Shortlisting result for test and interview
Exam date (Offline admission test and interview)*
Declaration of final results
02 February, 2026
10th March, 2026
20th March, 2026
11th April, 2026
End April 2026
*  Candidate  has  to  bring  all  educational  and  other  certificates  to  attend  the  written  test
and/or  interview  for  verification.  In  case  of  any  discrepancy,  the  candidate  will  not  be
allowed to attend the written test and/or interview.
F.  Important Note on Eligibility and Admission Cancellation
“IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to immediately cancel the admission of any candidate at any stage of the
admission  process  or  at  any  stage  of  the  program,  if  it  is found that the candidate does not fulfill the
prescribed  eligibility  criteria  as  per  the  official  advertisement  or  the  candidate  has  provided
incorrect/incomplete  information  in  the  Application  Form.  The  decision of the Institute in such matters
will be final and will be binding on the candidates. All legal matters shall be subject to the jurisdiction of
the Competent Court and Forum in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India only."
Advertisement for Admission under Sports Quota in M.Sc. Computational SociaL Sciences, AY
A.  Guidelines for Admission to the Seats Reserved under Sports Quota for M.Sc. Programs
are as follows:
Two supernumerary seats under regular admission category shall be given to sportspersons.
The  Sports  Quota will be available to only those sportspersons who can produce certification
about  securing  top  three  positions  (in  team  or individual events) in national or international
tournaments  approved  by  SAI  or  other  recognized  sports  federations  or  who  were  part  of
national team at junior or senior level in tournaments approved by these institutions. This will
include both outdoor and indoor sports.
Age relaxation will be as per Government of India norms for such candidates.
It is mandatory to meet the minimum eligibility criteria as per the program requirements.
The  shortlisting  will  be  based  on  the  “interview  and/or  written  examination”  and  “sports
certificate(s)”. The candidate to submit the highest performance from the below categories of
sports  (during  the
from  the  last  date  of  application)  and  below
certificate/awards will not be clubbed during shortlisting:
•  A  person  getting  any  of
Game/Commonwealth Game/World Cup Tournaments /Asian Games.
•  A person representing India in the above-mentioned games/tournaments.
•  A  person  representing  India  in  any other official matches abroad and within the country
approved by SAI or other recognized sports federations.
The  list  of  sports  which  qualifies  for  admission  under  Sports Quota, vide notification No.DOPT-
1668767575965  Government  of  India,  Ministry  of  Personnel,  Public  Grievances  &  Pensions
Department of Personnel and Training, ESTT. (Estt. D) dated 18 November 2022 is as follows.
Sl.No.  Name of Sport
Sl.No.  Name of Sport
Atya – Patya
Billiards & Snookers
(for  sports  discipline included in Paralympics
and Asian Para Games)
Kho – Kho
Tennis Ball Cricket
UNDERTAKING FOR ACHIEVEMENTS IN SPORTS
(address) hereby solemnly declare and affirm as follows:
That as Sportsman/Sportswoman in
represented  the  team(s)  in
and also of named position(s)
as  indicated in the table
Name  of  the
(1, 2, 3)
2.  That  the  certificate(s)  mentioned  above  as  produced  by  me  in  support  of  the  above  are
authentic. (Deleted the repetition)
I  understand  that  if  the  information/documents  supplied  by  me  are  found  to  be  false  or
incorrect or forged, my admission will stand canceled.
(Signature of the applicant)