General Instructions to Applicants | Faculty Positions | IIT Jodhpur
General Instructions to Applicants
Interested candidates may apply with all the details requested in ONLINE application placed on the website of IIT Jodhpur ( www.iitj.ac.in ). Further,
Applications are welcomed throughout the year. The applicants are required to apply only through ONLINE process and upload relevant documents accordingly.
Applications will be screened for the interview once every three months.
Although recruitment will be prioritized on the basis of need in certain areas within a particular discipline, applications may also be considered from exceptional candidates with background in other areas of the specified discipline.
Institute adopts reservations policy as per Government of India norms.
In case of exceptional candidates, the Institute reserves the right to relax age, qualifications and/or experience. Applicants are requested to upload the certificates in required format along with the application form.
The Institute reserves the right to fill or not to fill any or all of the advertised posts.
Candidates employed in Government and Semi-Government Organizations, Public Sector Enterprises, Autonomous Organizations, University and Educational Institutes must provide ‘No Objection Certificate’ from their present employer at the time of interview, in case he/she is shortlisted for interview.
Candidates shortlisted for the Interview will be provided economy class Air-Fare for travel in India (by Air India) from the starting airport to Jodhpur Airport and return by the shortest route. Reimbursement will be made by bank transfer (RTGS) in due course of time by the Institute on submission of necessary forms and documents.
Application with insufficient information or without relevant supporting documents will not be considered for further processing.
The Institute may verify the antecedents or documents submitted by a person at the time of appointment or during the tenure of the service. In case, it is detected that the documents submitted by the candidates are fake or the candidate has a clandestine antecedents or background and has suppressed the said information, then his or her services shall be terminated.
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 09 Mar 2026 - 04:15 PM