Case Western Reserve University Dual Degree (1+1) Programme
• Eligibility:  Students  enrolled  in  the  IITJ-MBA  program  qualify  to  enroll  in  a  choice  of  the  MBAI,  MFIN,  or  MSCM  to
complete  after  completing  one  year  of  study  in  the  full-time  MBA  program  at  IITJ.  All  WSOM-CWRU  coursework  for
these programs  will be completed in  one academic  year (e.g., Fall semester and Spring semester). Students  must  meet all
WSOM-CWRU criteria for admission. CWRU- WSOM has sole discretion over the acceptance of students into the program
according  to  its  admission  policies  and  requirements  including  the  requirements  for  language  proficiency.  Example  of
requirements  at:  https://case.edu/weatherhead/academics/graduate/master-finance/admission-information.  The  requirements
shall be made available to the students during the recruitment/admission process for such a program.
• Degree:  Upon  successfully  completing  the  required  credits  of  the  MBAI,  MFIN  or  MSCM  program  at  WSOM-CWRU
(typically 30 credit hours) and provided all other requirements are met, the students will be awarded the Master of Business
Analytics & Intelligence, or Master of Finance, or Master of Supply Chain Management degree from Case Western Reserve
University. Degree completion requirements must adhere to the established WSOM-CWRU general bulletin. The students
will be made aware of such requirements during the process of admission/recruitment for such a program.
• Cost Assignment:
1) The  students  are  responsible  for  the  payment  of  all  tuition  and  fees  for  any  courses  in  the  MBAI,  MFIN,  or  MSCM
program taken at WSOM-CWRU.
2) Any  cost  arising  from  traveling  and  stay  of  the  students  in  WSOM-CWRU  shall  be  borne  by  the  students  themselves,
including visa, travel, accommodation, insurance, etc. WSOM-CWRU shall give reasonable nonfinancial support and help
to the students, should there be such inquiry.
IITJ shall organize recruitment activities for admission for the WSOM-CWRU programs. WSOM-CWRU will assist IITJ
in such activities.
4) WSOM-CWRU  will provide all reasonable networking opportunities for career development with U.S.-based employers,
for eligible students who wish to pursue and are legally able to pursue employment in the United States.