Sponsors & Collaborators | Computer Science & Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Sponsors & Collaborators
The department is committed towards improving the institute’s outreach through all phases of technology development; starting from conceptualization down to commercialization, and thereby striving towards creation of knowledge in specialized domains. The Department’s mission is to develop strong and sustainable partnerships with research laboratories, academic institutions, industry, and entrepreneurs in order to meet aspirations of the faculty & student communities. The department is looking forward to working on problems that throw up intellectual challenges, and demand practical and impactful applications and solutions. Besides this, technology development initiatives and exploration of an idea, related to process and design improvement, are also of considerable interest. The department seeks partnerships that recognise and capitalize on relative strengths of academia and the industry. To achieve these goals the department is focusing on: Development of strong industry collaborations in research, and specialized human resource development. Identifying and protecting intellectual property. Development and and nurturing of international linkages for research and development.
Corporate Relations Faculty Research Area Collaborating Industry Anand Mishra Multimodal KG (Vision and Language) Visual Commonsense Reasoning (Vision and Language) Sketch-guided Object Localization (Multimodal Learning) Microsoft Accenture (Recently) Siemens (Past) Debasis Das Urban Anomaly Prediction Autonomous Vehicular System Cyber Security IoT Vizara Tech. Samsung Kritikal Solutions IBM Dip Sankar Banerjee Intel Johari Digital HPC, Algorithms for biological data Medical Technologies Mayank Vatsa Vehant Technologies Aethrone Aerospace Whizhack Technologies Pvt. Ltd. TCS DigitID Facebook Verisk Swiggy NVIDIA Mahajan Imaging TeleRadiology Solutions Richa Singh Trustable AI, Bias Trustable AI, Bias Biometrics, Presentation Attack Detection, Face Recognition Continual Learning Medical Image Analysis Medical Image Analysis Facebook Verisk Swiggy NVIDIA Mahajan Imaging TeleRadiology Solutions Sumit Kalra Software Engineering Smart Healthcare IMPRINT II Project - Scalable IoT Monitoring System NPBridge Novealthy Innovations Uniconverge Technologies
CCCD @ IITJ
How To Reach IITJ
Web Information Manager
Copyright © 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by Digital Infrastructure & Automation , IIT Jodhpur.  N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the WIM .
Last Updated : 20 Mar 2026 - 01:10 PM