ईमेल: office_chemistry@iitj.ac.in, फोन : +91-291-2801302
िेब साइट: https://iitj.ac.in/chemistry/en/chemistry
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Department of Chemistry
NH-62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur,
Email: office_chemistry@iitj.ac.in, Telephone: +91-291-2801302
Reporting Details for Interview
All the candidates shortlisted for Interview for Ph.D. Admission of the Department of Chemistry are requested to
appear for the online interview on 7th November 2025 at IIT Jodhpur.
Please note the following:
(1)  If you are willing to attend the Interview, kindly confirm by 4th Nov 2025, 5 PM, through Google Form. The
link  of  the  Google  form  will  be  shared  via  email.  Detailed  schedule  of  interviews  will  be  notified  to  the
candidates who confirm their participation in the due time.
(2)  You must report on time for interview.
(3)  No request will be entertained to change the date for interview.
(4)  You are advised to ensure that you fulfil the minimum eligibility criteria and must submit the following at the
time                 of admission:
a copy of his/her application (duly-signed)
a passport size photograph
self-attested photocopies of  his/her mark-sheets, degree certificates (if available)
a valid GATE, NET, CSIR, UGC, NBHM or equivalent score card. The candidates who have uploaded the
NET scorecard without the result must submit the updated scorecard as soon as they receive the same.
The candidates belonging to reserved categories  must submit a self-attested copy of the certificate.
The  candidates  belonging  to  OBC-NCL/SC/ST  category  must  submit  a   self-attested  copy  of  the
Persons  with  disability  must  submit  necessary  certificates  regarding  minimum  40%  disability
The Institute reserves the right to withdraw the admission in case the candidate DOES NOT fulfil the
minimum qualification/required percentage of marks in the qualifying examination or supplies any false
Please note that this call is merely a request for an interview and in any way does not guarantee
admission for Ph.D. Program at IIT Jodhpur.