Hkkjrh; çkS|ksfxdh laLFkku tks/kiqj
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY JODHPUR
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
11 August 2020 (Tuesday)
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
This page is left blank, intentionally
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Board of Governors
Minutes of 23rd Meeting
11 August 2020 (Tuesday), 11:00 A.M.
Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The following Members were present/ attended through Video-conferencing:
Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former PSA to Govt. of India
Prof. Santanu Chaudhury, Director, IIT Jodhpur
Director & Member
Prof. N. S. Shekhawat, Former Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
Prof. Sampat Raj Vadera, Professor & Head, Department of Physics,
Prof.  Surajit  Ghosh,  Professor,  Department  of  Bioscience
& Bioengineering, IIT Jodhpur
Sh. P.G. Basak, Advisor (Admn.) & Offg. Registrar
The following members were unable to attend the meeting:
Sh. Anil Bhavarlal Jain, MD & CEO, Jain Irrigation, Jalgaon
Sh. Rakesh Ranjan, Additional Secretary (TE), MHRD, *
Prof. Akhil R. Garg, Professor, JNVU, Jodhpur
(granted leave of absence due to sad demise of his mother)
*However, MHRD has issued Comments on the Agenda communicated vide email dated 10 August 2020
enclosed  letter  No.  F.No.12-8/2018-TS.1  dated  7  August  2020  and  the  same  were  circulated  and
considered in the meeting.
The following are the decisions of the Board on the items of the Agenda:
23.1  WELCOME BY THE CHAIRMAN
The  Chairman  welcomed  the  Members  and  appreciated  the  Director  for  Institute
Foundation  Day  Celebration  2020  of  IIT  Jodhpur  on  02  August  2020  on  virtual
platform  successfully.  He  recalled  the  motivational  talks  given  by  Dr.  P.K.  Mishra,
Principal Secretary to the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri N.K Singh, Chairman,
15th  Finance  Commission,  Govt.  of  India  and  Sh.  Amit  Khare,  Secretary,
Department of Higher Education, MHRD, GoI and called the meeting in Order.
23.1.1  To Confirm the Minutes of 22nd Meeting  of the  Board of Governors held  on
08 June 2020 at Meeting Room S-1, IIT Jodhpur
The Director apprised the BoG that the MHRD sent comments on the decision of the
BoG on the matter of House Rent Allowance (HRA) vide letter F.No.12-8/2018-TS.I
dated 26 July 2020 and conveyed that Ministry do not agree with the decision of
BoG, as the classification of a city for HRA purposes has to be decided by the Ministry of
Finance,  Department  of  Expenditure.  It  is  requested  to  send  the  proposal  for  the
consideration of the Ministry along with all relevant documents including the references
of State Govt., and no such decision may be taken to effect the payment of HRA on the
basis of the decision of BoG.
The  Director  further  apprised  the  BoG  that  the  matter  was  again  placed  before  the
Finance  Committee  in  its  19th  meeting  held  on  10.08.2020  and  after  detailed
deliberations  on  the matter,  the  FC  recommended  “…that  the  matter  has  been  causing
hardship  to  the  employees  of  the  Institute  and  pending  since  very  long  and  requested
MHRD  representatives  to  expedite  the  matter  and  try  to  resolve  at  the  earliest  within
two months and the decision of the BoG taken in its 22nd meeting held on 8 June 2020
shall be kept in abeyance.”
The  BoG  noted  the  recommendation  of  the  Finance  Committee  and  confirmed  the
Minutes of the 22nd BoG held on 8.06.2020.
23.1.2  Report on Action Taken on the 22nd Meeting of the Board of Governors held
on 08 June 2020 at Board Room, IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  noted  the  Action  Taken  Report  (ATR)  on  various  decisions  taken  in  the
22nd Meeting of the Board of Governors held on 08 June 2020.
23.2  INSTITUTE REPORT BY THE DIRECTOR
The Director made a detailed presentation on the progress of the Institute outlined
in  eight  Verticals  (a)  Academic  Programs  (b)  Program-wise  Student  Strength
(c)  Faculty  Strength  (d)  Research  and  Development  (e)  HEFA  Loan  Status
(f) Construction Status (g) Expenditure Analysis FY 2019-20 and (h) Proposal for
Phase 3 Development.
At  the  outset,  the  Board  was  apprised  that  the  number  of  Academic  Programs  of
IIT Jodhpur would increase from 44 to 62 after admission in September/November
2020  and  apprised  about  new  B.Tech.  Programs  and  salient  features  of  B.Tech.
The Board was also briefed that after the admissions in September/November 2020
the projected students strength would reach to total of 2524 as per details below:
A.  B.Tech Programs                                                    -  1210
B.  Masters Programs ( M.Tech, M.Sc., M.B.A.)                -    839
C.  Dual Degree ( M.Tech , Ph.D)                                   -      75
D.  Doctoral Programs                                                  -     400
*132 students admitted in Executive M.Tech (AI) Program in AY 2019-20 and 76 Student
in MBA from July  2020
It  was  also  apprised  to  the  Board  that  the  Faculty  strength  reached  to  157  which
includes  Professor,  Associate  Professor,  Assistant  Professor,  Visiting  Professor,  YFA
and offered faculty positions.
The  Director  further  apprised  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Office  of  Principal
Scientific Adviser (PSA), Government  of India has approved the proposal to  set up
the  Jodhpur  City  Knowledge  and  Innovation  Cluster  (JCKIC)  and  sanctioned
Rs.  949.70  lakhs  for  the  Cluster.  The  initial  duration  of  the  project  will  be  three
years.  The  Jodhpur  City  Knowledge  and  Innovation  Cluster  is  one  of  the  six  such
clusters  being  set  up  all  over  the  country  under  the  Aegis  of  the  Office  of  PSA,
Government of India. The office of JCKIC will be located at IIT Jodhpur. The project
will be executed jointly by various R&D Institutes, Academic Institutes, Government
Agencies and Industry  of the city of Jodhpur,  with IIT Jodhpur as the coordinating
The Director apprised the status of HEFA Loans of the Institute.
The  Director  also  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  about  the  current  status  of  the
Construction, effects of COVID-19 pandemic such as shortage of labours against the
required strength to complete the Construction work undergoing at the Institute.
The Board of Governors appreciated the detailed Institute Report presented by the
Director  and  appreciated  the  progress  achieved  by  the  Institute  and  Chairman
especially  appreciated  the  Director  to  be  able  to  attract  Faculty  Members  in  all
Departments and in the School of Management & Entrepreneurship.
23.3  DISCUSSION ITEMS
23.3.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  19th  Meeting  of  the
Finance Committee to be held on 10 August 2020 at IIT Jodhpur
The  Board  of  Governors  approved  all  the  recommendations  of  the  19th  Meeting  of
the  Finance  Committee  held  on  10  August  2020.  The  BoG,  made  observations  on
following items and approved as under:
Item  No.19.2.2:  Consider  and  recommend  the  Annual  Accounts  for
Financial Year 2019-20 of the Institute.
The Board of Governors noted the recommendation of the Finance Committee that
“The HEFA loan principal repayment of Rs. 16.50 Cr. [Schedule 10 & 20] appeared
in  Income  and  Expenditure  has  to  be  reflected  in  the  Capital  Fund  directly”  and
approved  the  Annual  Accounts  for  Financial  Year  2019-20  with  incorporation  of
suggestions made by the Finance Committee.
Item  No.19.2.4:  To  consider  and  recommend  additional  HEFA
amounting to Rs.350 Crores for construction of Phase-3A
of Permanent Campus of the Institute.
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  following  recommendations  of  the  Finance
Committee on the matter:
“….The Finance Committee noted the requirements of the Institute, its ability of
repayment  and  accorded  its  in-principle  approval  for  planning  of  Phase-3A  of
Development  of  Permanent  Campus  of  the  Institute.  The  representative  of
MHRD  advised  the  Institute  to  submit  a  Comprehensive  Proposal  towards
further development of Campus & facilities in Phase-3 through HEFA loan with
Phase 3A (1st  Phase  of  Phase 3) of Rs.350 Crore  (Rs.300  Cr. for Development
of  Permanent  Campus  +  Rs.50  Crores  for  setting  up  of  new  laboratory
(equipment))  under  75:25  window  with  approval  of  Board  of  Governors  and
other relevant documents.”
The  BoG  noted  the  critical  requirement  of  the  Institute  and  approved  the
recommendation of the Finance Committee.
Item  No.19.2.6:    HRA  at  par  with  “Y”  Class  city  to  the  employees  as  an
The  Board  of  Governors  noted  the  following  recommendation  of  the  Finance
Committee on the matter:
“…..The  Chairman  stated  that  the  matter  has  been  causing  hardship  to  the
employees  of  the  Institute  and  pending  since  very  long  and  requested  MHRD
representatives to expedite the matter and try to resolve at the earliest may be
within  two  months  and  the  decision  of  the  BoG  taken  in  its  22nd  meeting  held
on 8 June 2020 shall be kept in abeyance.”
The BoG approved the recommendation of the FC and the Chairman re-iterated that
the matter should be resolved at the earliest within two months and decision of the
BoG taken in its 22nd meeting held on 8.06.2020 shall be kept in abeyance.
23.3.2  Recommendations  of  the  21st  Meeting  of  Senate  held  on  07  July  2020  at
The Board of Governors approved the recommendations of the 21st Senate held on
07 July 2020. The Chairman especially appreciated the new M.Sc. Program in Digital
Humanities to be started from AY 2020-21 and praised the Director for starting such
a unique program. Also, the Chairman enquired about the employment possibilities
for the students after completion of the Program. The Director briefed the BoG that
before  formulating  the  curriculum  of  the  program,  comments/inputs  were  sought
from  academia  &  industry  and  incorporated  to  make  the  program  curriculum
attractive  and  employable.  He  further  stated  that  the  Program  has  potential  to
address  the  employability  aspect  being  inter-disciplinary  and  heterogeneous
program.  The  Chairman  extended  his  best  wishes  to  the  Institute  and  appreciated
the Director for such unique concepts.
23.3.3  To  consider  and  approve  the  recommendations  of  the  22nd  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on 31 July 2020 at IIT Jodhpur
The Minutes of the 22nd meeting of the Senate were tabled during the meeting and
Director  briefed  the  BoG  about  the  recommendations  of  the  Senate  and  about  the
discussion  in  the  meeting  of  Standing  Committee  of  IIT  Council  (SCIC)  regarding
planning  of  next  Academic  Year  2020-21.  He  further  apprised  that  accordingly
Senate, IIT Jodhpur formulated the plan for Academic Year 2020-21 as below:
•  Next academic year will start from  1st September 2020. Orientation will be done
in the last week of August.
●  Instruction for the entire Academic Year would be in online mode.
●  The  Academic  Year  will  be  divided  into  three  trimesters,  each  trimester  of  three
months as below:
Courses  with  theory  only  or  theory
portion of theory with lab courses
1    December  2020-  28
Courses with theory and practical
1  March - 30 May 2021  Courses with theory and practical
1 - 30 June 2021
Conduction  of  Lab  courses  if  it  is  not
possible  to  conduct
Trimesters II and III.
The  Director  also  briefed  the  BoG  about  the  new  pedagogical  approaches
recommended by the Senate, IIT Jodhpur as below:
•  The  actual  classes  in  the  next  academic  year  may  be  of  20-30  minutes  in
duration so that the session can be interesting and engaging.
•  Flipped classrooms will also be introduced.
•  During  the  last  part  of  the  previous  semester,  the  classroom-oriented  teaching
methodology  was  adopted  in  the  online  mode  of  delivery.  Hence,  there  is  a
further scope of improvement with the choice of appropriate pedagogy.
•  Workshop  will  be  held  to  develop  modalities  for  online  teaching  and  evaluation
for Faculty Members of the Institute.
The  Board  noted  and  approved  the  recommendations  of  the  22nd  Meeting  of  the
Senate held on 31 July 2020.
23.3.4  To  consider  and  approve  the  signing  of  Memorandum  of  Understanding
between the Institute and the MHRD.
The Director apprised the Board of Governors that “the Ministry of Human Resource
Development,  Government  of  India  had  enforced  new  financial  policy  of  the
Government in which the release of grants to the Institute are tied with the signing
of  a  Memorandum  of  Understanding  (MoU)  between  the  Institute  and  the  MHRD
every financial year and the MHRD has directed the Institute to sign a Memorandum
of  Understanding  for  the  FY  2020-2021”  also.  The  Board  discussed  in  detail  the
various facets of the MoU and approved the signing of the same.
23.3.5  To consider and approve relaxation in operation of Casual Leave in terms of
Rule 36 of the Schedule E of the Statutes of IIT Jodhpur.
The  Board  noted  the  comments  of  the  MHRD  that  the  extant  Govt.  of  India  rules
may be followed and approved the adoption the Govt. of India rules to regulate the
operation  of  Casual  Leave  at  the  Institute.  However,  as  per  the  MHRD  comments,
the  BoG  suggested  that  the  matter  of  relaxation  in  operation  of  CL  in  terms  of
provisions of the Statutes be sent to the MHRD to take assent of the Visitor as per
23.4  REPORTING, ADOPTING AND NOTING ITEMS
23.4.1  Report  on  Faculty  Members  and  Staff  Members  joining  and  resigning  from
The Board noted the report on the Faculty Members and Staff Members joining and
resigning from the Institute.
23.4.2  Adoption of Circulars of MHRD and Government of India
The Board approved the adoption.
23.4.3  Report of R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty Members of the Institute
from last meeting of the BoG.
The Board noted the report on the R&D Projects sanctioned to the Faculty members
of the Institute and appreciated the same.
Institutions/organizations/companies by the Institute.
The Board noted the report of the MoUs/Agreement(s) signed by the Institute with
different Institutions/organizations/companies and appreciated the Institute.
23.5  RATIFICATION ITEMS
23.5.1  Approvals accorded by Chairman, Board of Governors
(a)  Reports of Selection Committees
the  approval  accorded  by
the  Chairman,  BoG
Selection/extension  of  Contract  of  02  Young  Faculty  Associates  and  02  Visiting
Professors as presented in the Agenda.
(b)  Adjunct Faculty appointment /extension of term
The  Board  ratified  the  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  regarding
appointment/extension  of  05  Adjunct  Faculty  members  for  one  more  year  as
presented in the Agenda.
(C)  Extension of term of Visiting Professor and Advisor (Administration)
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG regarding extension
of  term  of  1  Visiting  Professor  and  Advisor  (Administration)  for  one  more  year  as
presented in the Agenda.
(d)  Fixation of initial pay as per rules.
The Board approved the same as presented in the Agenda.
(e)  Reports of Review Committees of Staff Members
The Board ratified the approval accorded by the Director on the recommendation of
the  Review  Committee  of  02  Staff  Members  of  the  Institute  as  presented  in  the
(f)  Approval accorded by the Chairman, BoG through U.O. Note.
The  Board  ratified  the  various  approval  accorded  by  the  Chairman,  BoG  through
23.6  Any other item with the prior permission of the Chairman
23.6.1  To  consider  and  approve  the  position  of  Dean  (SME)  at  the  Institute  to
head the School of Management & Entrepreneurship (SME).
The  Director  apprised  the  BoG  that  the  School  of  Management  &  Entrepreneurship
of  the  Institute  has  started  fully  functioning  from  the  current  Academic  Year  with
intake of 76 students in its MBA Program.  The Director further stated that in order
to lay its firm foundation and to mentor its young faculty members; Institute  need
to create a position of Dean to head the School of Management & Entrepreneurship.
He  further  stated  that  most  of  the  global  management  schools  under  Universities
are  headed  by  a  Dean  and  therefore  to  match  the  same,  IIT  Jodhpur  designating
the position of Head, SME as Dean, SME.
The  Chairman  suggested  that  the  acronym  as  SME  for  School  of  Management  &
Entrepreneurship  may  be  changed  with  another  one.  The  Director  noted  the
suggestion and stated that it would be apprised in the next meeting of the BoG.
23.6.2  To  consider  and  approve  formation  of  Section  8  company  named  Jodhpur
City  Knowledge  and  Innovation  Centre  (JCKIC)  under  Section  8  of  the
Companies Act, 2013.
The  Director  briefed  the  Board  of  Governors  that  the  Office  of  Principal  Scientific
Adviser  (PSA),  Government  of  India  has  approved  the  proposal  to  set  up  the
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster (JCKIC) and sanctioned Rs. 949.70
lakhs  for  the  Cluster.  The  initial  duration  of  the  project  will  be  three  years.  The
Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Cluster is one of the six such clusters being
set  up  all  over  the  country  under  the  Aegis  of  the  Office  of  PSA,  Government  of
India.  The  project  will  be  executed  jointly  by  various  R&D  Institutes,  Academic
Institutes,  Government  Agencies  and  Industry  of  the  city  of  Jodhpur,  with  IIT
Jodhpur as the coordinating agency.
The  Director  further  apprised  the  BoG  that  a  Section  8  company  under  the
Companies Act, 2013 need to be established named as Jodhpur City Knowledge and
Innovation Centre (JCKIC) for proper management of the Project.
After  detailed  deliberation,  the  BoG  approved  the  formation  of  Section  8  company
named as Jodhpur City Knowledge and Innovation Centre (JCKIC) under Section 8
of the Companies Act, 2013.
23.6.3  To  consider  and  approve  the  proposed  panel  of  experts  for  Selection  of
Faculty  in  the  School  of  Artificial  Intelligence  and  Data  Science  (AIDE)  of
The  Director  presented  the  item  and  apprised  that  the  Senate  and  Board  of
Governors  of  IIT  Jodhpur  had  approved  the  creation  of  School  of  Artificial
Intelligence  and  Data  Science  (AIDE)  in  IIT  Jodhpur.  He  further  apprised  that  to
start  the  process  of  setting  up  of  the  School;  Institute  needs  to  hold  Selection
Committee for the recruitment of the Faculty Members for the School and presented
the panel of experts to the BoG. After in-length discussion, the Board of Governors
approved  the  panel  of  experts  for  conducting  the  Selection  Committees  for  faculty
positions, as tabled during the Meeting.
The Meeting ended with thanks to the Chair and all Members of the Board of Governors.
Offg. Registrar & Secretary, BoG
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Jodhpur