Submitted Institute Data for NIRF'2023'
Institute Name: Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur [IR-O-U-0395]
Sanctioned (Approved) Intake
National Institutional Ranking Framework
Ministry of Education
Government of India
Welcome to Data Capturing System: OVERALL
UG [4 Years Program(s)]
PG [2 Year Program(s)]
Total Actual Student Strength (Program(s) Offered by Your Institution)
of all years)
No. of Male
No. of Female
No. of students
from the State
No. of students
No. of students
from the Private
No. of students
who are not
UG [4 Years
PG [2 Year
Placement & Higher Studies
UG [4 Years Program(s)]: Placement & higher studies for previous 3 years
No. of first year
students intake in the
No. of first year
students admitted in
No. of students
No. of students
No. of students
Median salary of
No. of students
selected for Higher
PG [2 Years Program(s)]: Placement & higher studies for previous 3 years
No. of first year
students intake in the
No. of first year
students admitted in
No. of students graduating in minimum
No. of students
Median salary of
No. of students
selected for Higher
Ph.D Student Details
Ph.D (Student pursuing doctoral program till 2021-22 Students admitted in the academic year 2022-23 should not be entered here.)
No. of Ph.D students graduated (including Integrated Ph.D)
PG (Student pursuing MD/MS/DNB program till 2021-22 Students admitted in the academic year 2022 - 23 should not be entered here)
Number of students pursuing PG (MD/MS/DNB) program
No. of students Graduating in PG (MD/MS/DNB) program
1. Does all programs/courses were completed on time.
2. Measures taken to complete the syllabus of courses and programs.
The Institute strictly follows the Academic Calendar timelines for on-time completion of the syllabus and programs. IIT Jodhpur
has been seamlessly continuing the synchronous online mode of instructions post-CoVID-19 with novel pedagogical approaches
exploiting technologically enabled aids. This includes laboratory experiments conducted using online simulators and tinkering
tools, and VR enabled walkthroughs of some of the basic laboratories. The institute has introduced the hybrid-classroom mode of
teaching-learning in the campus for most of the courses in the last semester and efficiently delivered the contents to complete the
curriculum requirement. IIT Jodhpur has been conducting the online proctored examinations for the scheduled evaluations of
courses as per academic calendar. For comprehensive assessment, the distribution of weightage for the evaluation components
of a course assessment has been judiciously made combining continuous assessment and end-semester based examination.
Innovative schemes for various evaluation components for continuous evaluations including group assignment, project based
assignment etc have been implemented. In the blended mode of delivery, there were evaluation components which were also
conducted in physical mode following COVID-19 norms. IIT Jodhpur has also made special arrangements for scheduling of
courses and laboratories for timely completion of the academic year for the UG students who had joined late in the last academic
year due to the exceptional situation.
3. The period of delay in completion of syllabus (in months).
4. The period of delay in conducting exams (in months).
No. of students offered online courses which have credit
transferred to transcript
Total no. of online courses which have credit transferred
to the transcript
Total no. of credits transferred to transcript
5. No. of courses developed and available online on Swayam platform  by your institution faculty
Financial Resources: Utilised Amount for the Capital expenditure for previous 3 years
Annual Capital Expenditure on Academic Activities and Resources (excluding expenditure on buildings)
New Equipment for Laboratories
31578203 (Three Crore Fifteen Lakh Seventy Eight Thousand
Two Hundred Three)
71642098 (Seven Crore Sixteen Lakh Forty Two Thousand
15431762 (One Crore Fifty Four Lakh Thirty One Thousand
Seven Hundred Sixty Two)
396024778 (Thirty Nine Crore Sixty Lakh Twenty Four
Thousand Seven Hundred Seventy Eight)
234332902 (Twenty Three Crore Forty Three Lakh Thirty Two
Thousand Nine Hundred Two)
240406581 (Twenty Four Crore Four Lakh Six Thousand Five
Hundred Eighty One)
17230645 (One Crore Seventy Two Lakh Thirty Thousand Six
Hundred Forty Five)
16848635 (One Crore Sixty Eight Lakh Forty Eight Thousand
Six Hundred Thirty Five)
7038245 (Seventy Lakh Thirty Eight Thousand Two Hundred
205250 (Two Lakh Five Thousand Two Hundred Fifty )
290609 (Two Lakh Ninety Thousand Six Hundred Nine)
211762 (Two Lakh Eleven Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty
Other expenditure on creation of Capital Assets (excluding
expenditure on Land and Building)
165797521 (Sixteen Crore Fifty Seven Lakh Ninety Seven
Thousand Five Hundred Twenty One)
304585844 (Thirty Crore Forty Five Lakh Eighty Five Thousand
Eight Hundred Forty Four)
25208644 (Two Crore Fifty Two Lakh Eight Thousand Six
Financial Resources: Utilised Amount for the Operational expenditure for previous 3 years
Annual Operational Expenditure
Salaries (Teaching and Non Teaching staff)
591593878 (Fifty Nine Crore Fifteen Lakh Ninety Three
Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy Eight)
435994123 (Forty Three Crore Fifty Nine Lakh Ninety Four
Thousand One Hundred Twenty Three)
338705439 (Thirty Three Crore Eighty Seven Lakh Five
Thousand Four Hundred Thirty Nine)
Maintenance of Academic Infrastructure or consumables and
other running expenditures(excluding maintenance of hostels
and allied services,rent of the building, depreciation cost, etc)
1063070705 (One Hundred and Six Crore Thirty Lakh Seventy
Thousand Seven Hundred and Five)
884215876 (Eighty Eight Crore Forty Two Lakh Fifteen
Thousand Eight Hundred Seventy Six)
663802499 (Sixty Six Crore Thirty Eight Lakh Two Thousand
Four Hundred Ninety Nine)
1648564 (Sixteen Lakh Forty Eight Thousand Five Hundred
490329 (Four Lakh Ninety Thousand Three Hundred Twenty
5421950 (Fifty Four Lakh Twenty One Thousand Nine Hundred
No. of Patents Published
No. of Patents Granted
Sponsored Research Details
Total no. of Sponsored Projects
Total no. of Funding Agencies
Total Amount Received (Amount in Rupees)
Amount Received in Words
Forty Seven Crore Seventy Four Lakh Forty Six Thousand Six
Hundred Forty Eight
Twenty Six Crore Seventy Seven Lakh Eighty Six Thousand
Five Hundred Fourty Six
Twenty Five Crore Five Lakh Eighty Five Thousand One
Hundred Fifty Three
Consultancy Project Details
Total no. of Consultancy Projects
Total no. of Client Organizations
Total Amount Received (Amount in Rupees)
Amount Received in Words
Seven Crore Fifty Two Lakh Forty Two Thousand Seven
Hundred Sixty Five
Two Crore Thirty One Lakh Five Hundred Ninety Six
One Crore Fifteen Lakh Thirteen Thousand Three Hundred
Executive Development Program/Management Development Programs
Total no. of Executive Development Programs/ Management
Total no. of Participants
Total Annual Earnings (Amount in Rupees)(Excluding Lodging
& Boarding Charges)
Total Annual Earnings in Words
Three Crore Nine Lakh Sixty Seven Thousand two Hundred
One Crore Fifty Eight Lakh Sixty Five Thousand Seven
Sixty Two Lakh Ninety Nine Thousand Nine Hundred Thirty
PCS Facilities: Facilities of physically challenged students
1. Do your institution buildings have Lifts/Ramps?
Yes, more than 80% of the buildings
2. Do your institution have provision for walking aids, including wheelchairs and transportation from one building to another for
3. Do your institution buildings have specially designed toilets for handicapped students?
Yes, more than 80% of the buildings
1.Does your institute have a valid NBA Accreditation?
1. Does your institute have a valid NAAC Accreditation?
Debanjan Guha Roy
Dip Sankar Banerjee
Gandi Naidu Appala
Ravi Sai Kiran
R K Mitra
Ravi K R
Dean / Principal /
Director / Vice
Gafoor Shaik Abdul
Kashyap Bhagwati P
Mithu Rani Kuiti
Tiwari Anil Kumar
Arani Ali Khan
B M Krishna
Jai Narayan Tripathi
Vadera Raj Sampat
Anuj Pal Kapoor
Mishra Amit Kumar
V V M S
Atul Kumar Sharma
Devi Prasad Dash
George K J
Nitin Kumar Sharma
S C Bose
Singh Arun Kumar
Amit Kumar Rathi
Arun Kumar R
C S Upadhyay
Fulwani  Deepak M
Hari Narayanan V
Rana Nirmal Kumar
Sasi Vinay Pacheti
Sk Md Hasan
Venkat Ram Reddy