E D I T I O N   # 1
NEWSLETTER | 2024-2025 | OFFICE OF CORPORATE RELATIONS | IIT JODHPUR
The  Office  of  Corporate  Relations  at  IIT  Jodhpur  is  dedicated  to  strengthen  the  Institute’s  corporate
relations  and  enhance  Industry  engagement  through  joint  R&D  programs  in  collaboration  with
scholarships and building a long lasting Industry- academia relationship based on mutual objective and
shared goals, aligning with IIT Jodhpur’s future aspirations.
industry-linked  endowments,  CSR  project  opportunities,
🏆 CII Industry-Academia Partnership Awards 2024
IIT  Jodhpur  was  proudly  recognized  with  the  “Grand  Jury”  Award  in  the
Government  Institute  category  at  the  1st  edition  of  the  CII  Industry-
Academia  Partnership  Awards
acknowledges  the  Institute’s  consistent  efforts  in  building  long-term,  high-
impact  collaborations  with  industry.  The  award  underscores  IIT  Jodhpur’s
leadership  in  driving  innovation,  translational  research,  and  knowledge
🧪 Showcasing Innovation at the CII Exhibition 2024
Collaborations- MoUs & Agreements
The  Office  of  Corporate  Relations  also  set  up
a  dynamic  exhibition  stall  during  the  CII
Annual  Summit  on  Technology,  Intellectual
Property  and  Industry  Academia  Partnership
2024  on  12   December  2024,  which  drew
significant  attention  from  corporate  leaders
focus  areas  of
showcased  some  of  the
developing  collaborative  R&D  programs  with
education  to  nurture  corporate  leadership,
industry  linked  fellowships/scholarships  for
faculty  and  students,  Endowments
Sponsorships (Chair Professorships).
Endowed Genpact Chair Professor in the areas of Computer
Science/Data Science and AI at IIT Jodhpur
is  proud  to  announce  the  creation  of  the  endowment  for
establishment  of  the  Endowed  Genpact  Chair  Professorship  in  the  field  of
Computer Science, Data Science, and AI, made possible through a generous CSR
donation from Genpact India Pvt. Ltd.
💼 Endowment Support: ₹80 Lakhs for the Chair Professorship.
🎓   Doctoral  Fellowships:  ₹20  Lakhs  to  support  three  PhD  students  (with
preference to women candidates) over four years.
🧠   Focus  Area:  Cutting-edge  research  and  education  in  AI,  Data  Science,  and
This  strategic  partnership  marks  a  significant  step  in  fostering  advanced
research,  talent  development,  and
industry-academia  collaboration  at
Genpact India Pvt. Ltd.: Establishment of Endowed Chair
Professorship  and  research  fellowships  for  three  PhD
Ivaan  Foundation:  Establishment  of  Goliya  Chair  and
Johari Faculty Fellowship in Clean Energy.
iHub Drishti Foundation: Establishment of two Chanakya
Chair Professorships for interdisciplinary innovation.
L&T  Construction,  Renewables:  Project  on  Sand  dune
erosion  modeling  for  solar  park  (PI:  Dr.  Pradeep  Kumar
Dammala, Civil & Infrastructure Engineering)
Tata  Steel  Ltd.:  Project  on  Borophene  Oxide  synthesis  for
energy  storage  applications
(PI:  Dr.  Pranay  Ranjan,
Metallurgical and Materials Engineering).
North Western Railway: Project on Structural proof-check
for  Taranga  Hill–Abu  Road  station  buildings  (PI:  Dr.  Amit
Kumar Rathi, Civil and Infrastructure Engineering).
RapidRadio  Solutions  Pvt.  Ltd.:  Project  on  Development
of  facial  recognition  API  in  Python  (PI:  Dr.  Sumit  Kalra,
Computer  Science  and  Engineering  and  Dr.  Kshema
Prakash, Deputy Librarian)
Establishment of a 5G Lab at the Institute.
Graduate  Women  in  Science  (GWIS):  Fellowship  Award
of  $6250  for  Dr.  Rajyalakshmi  Garaga,  Assistant  Professor,
Agatsa  Software  Pvt.  Ltd.:  Project  on  Statistical  analysis
of  health  data  sets.  (PI:  Prof.  Sumit  Kalra,  Computer
Science and Engineering).
Jodhpur Pollution Control Foundation: Joint research on
addressing  the  common  effluent  generated  by  the
Jodhpur textile Industry and project on Textile wastewater
treatment via UV AOPs  (PI: Dr. Ram Prakash, Department
Mercedes-Benz R&D India: Collaboration on joint projects,
knowledge sharing, and ecosystem development.
development  of  products,
ECOR Greentech Pvt. Ltd.: Joint R&D, product validation.
Khushi  Baby  Association:  Submission  of  Joint  research
KEF Holdings, Singapore: R&D in health-tech devices.
Chemists  Without  Borders:  Collaborate  in  the  exchange
of ideas, and education programs, preparation of proposals
and  grant  applications,  and  in  project  implementation
prioritizing  in  the  area  of  water  purification  and  water
research  proposals,  and
🪑 iHub Drishti Chanakya Chair Professorship in the
areas of Computer Vision, Augmented Reality/ Virtual
In  a  major  boost  to  frontier  research  at  IIT  Jodhpur,  iHub  Drishti
Foundation has endowed the Institute with ₹1.66 Crores to establish
two prestigious Chair Professorships.
🧠   Focus  Areas:  Computer  Vision,  Augmented  Reality  (AR),  and
Virtual Reality (VR)
💼 Endowment Support: ₹1.66 Crores for two Chair Professorships
🔍   Objective:  To  advance  research,  teaching,  and  innovation  in
immersive  and  intelligent  visual  technologies.  This  collaboration
strengthens  IIT  Jodhpur’s  role  as  a  leading  research  hub  in  next-
generation computing and XR technologies.
🪑   Endowed  Goliya  Chair  Professorship  in  Clean
Energy  and  Endowed  Johari  Young  Faculty
IVAAN  Foundation  under  its  initiative  of  empowering  individuals
and  fostering  innovation  has  endowed  the  Institute  with  ₹1.75
Crores  to  establish  Endowed  Goliya  Chair  Professorship  in  Clean
Energy  and  Endowed  Johari  Young  Faculty  Fellowship  at  the
Rishabh Center for Research and Innovation at IIT Jodhpur.
💼 Endowment Support: ₹1.75 Crores.
🔍   Objective:  Focus  on  driving  impactful  education,  cutting-edge
research, and societal contributions in the domain of Clean Energy
💝 Benevity- Corporate Donations
IIT Jodhpur has onboarded with Benevity, a global platform for corporate giving and donations. Through this platform, the Institute has
received contributions from individual donors, including support from corporate giants like Microsoft and Cisco.
These donations have been earmarked for the Endowment Fund for Medical Technologies and Healthcare (Seed Support) of the Institute,
with  a  target  of  ₹25  Lakhs.  The  contributions  received  via  Benevity  will  continue  to  support  this  fund,  helping  catalyze  early-stage
innovation in healthcare and medical technology at IIT Jodhpur.
🏥CSR donation for Indian Conference on MedTech Innovations (ICMI) 2025
The IITJ–AIIMSJ MedTech Centre hosted the 3rd edition of the Indian Conference on MedTech Innovations (ICMI 2025) from 15th to 17th
February  2025.  Jointly  organized  by  IIT  Jodhpur  and  AIIMS  Jodhpur,  this  landmark  event  is  a  national  hub  for  thought  leadership,
innovation,  and  collaboration  in  the  MedTech  domain.  The  event  included  keynote  talks  by  leading  MedTech  innovators  and  policy
makers, Panel Dialogues tackling challenges and emerging trends in the sector,  startup showcase featuring breakthrough student- and
faculty-led MedTech startups and Networking Opportunities connecting academia, industry, and government stakeholders.
This  year,  Syrma  Johari  MedTech,  a  Jodhpur-based  company  with  a  strong  collaborative  history  with  the  MedTech  Centre,  donated  ₹4
Lakhs  through  CSR  for  the  successful  execution  of  ICMI  2025.  The  conference  is  closely  aligned  with  India’s  vision  for  an  Atmanirbhar
MedTech ecosystem, making it a crucial step toward national healthcare innovation and self-reliance.
STEM for HER Scholarship
🎓 Udaan Scholarship
Twelve  female  students  from  IIT  Jodhpur  have  been  selected  for
the  prestigious  STEM  for  HER  Scholarship  Program,  a  CSR
initiative by Genpact in collaboration with United Way Hyderabad.
This initiative empowers young women in technology by offering:
Scholarships  worth  ₹40,000  per  student,  renewable  across  all
years of study.
throughout the academic year.
Students  were  selected  through  a  rigorous  evaluation  process,
emerging as top achievers from across the country.
Three students from IIT Jodhpur have been selected as recipients
of  the  prestigious  Udaan  Scholarship,  supported  by  TransUnion
CIBIL and facilitated through FORSTU.
Mr. Mota Ram
Mr. Prince Kumar Jain
Mr. Kachhawa Goutham
This  scholarship  of  ₹50,000  to  4th-year  students  aims  to
empower  deserving  students  from  low-income  background  and
foster their academic journey in technology and innovation.
Interaction with B N Group
🎤 Interaction with Shri Sharad Kumar Saraf
B N Group leadership team visited IIT Jodhpur on 18  February 2025.
The  team  including  Mr.  Web  Chang  Semi-Conductor  Expert  (BN
Group)  and  Mr.  Ashutosh  Sharma  CHRO  (BN  Group)  visited  for
interacting  with  the  faculty  and  exploring  possible  collaborations  in
the area of semiconductors. The interaction involved discussions on
Polymer  and  Interface  in  Electronic  Packaging,  Wearable  PoC
Devices, Solid state OECT (organic electrochemical transistors)for ion
Sensing,  Biocompatible  OECT,  Semiconductor  industry  standard
compact  modelling,  Cryogenic  Semiconductors  and  Nano
Biosensors  (Gas  Sensors  &  Water  sensors).  Some  mutual  interest
areas for collaboration were identified.
The office was delighted to host Shri Sharad Kumar Saraf, Chairman
of  Technocraft  Industries  (India)  Ltd.  and  Chairman  of  BoG  at  IIT
IIT  Jammu,  along  with  esteemed  Pan-IIT  alumni
members  and  industrial  leaders,  during  his  visit  on  28th  February
2025.  The interaction included focused presentations on:
🌿 AyurTech Initiative
🎓 Teacher’s Training Program
🏥 MedTech Program
Office of Corporate Relations
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar Jodhpur 342030
Phone:        +91-291-280-1154/ 1116/ 1120