Title of the project
Name and affiliation of the PI
Names and affiliations of each of
the collaborating faculty.
Summary of the project
Development of Angular Shaped High
Strength Artificial Aggregates for the
Utilization in Pavement Base and Sub-
Department of Civil and
Dr. Anand Krishnan Plappally,
Associate Professor, Mechanical
Engineering, IIT Jodhpur
Radiation hard Gallium Nitride
transistor for IoT enabled dosimeter
EE, IIT Jodhpur
Satyajit Sahu, Department of Physics
The present research project aims at utilizing fly ash, mine tailing, and other
additives to develop high-strength artificial aggregates for road construction.
This will help to solve the problem of waste disposal and also helps in reducing
adverse environmental effects related to the mining of new aggregates
The objectives of the project are as follows,
1. Deposition and characterizations of thin films by RF Sputtering
2. Fabrication of GaN high electron mobility transistors using photolithograph
3. Electrical characterizations of the fabricated transistors.
4. Deposition of high-k dielectrics on the Gate
5. Radiation studies of the transistor
6. Integration with IoT platform
Conversion of wastewater and
exhaust gas CO₂ into algae biomass-
Dr. Prasenjit Sarkar (Assistant
Professor, CE/CETSD), Dr. Hardik
Kothadia (Assistant Professor,
The proposal 'Conversion of wastewater and exhaust gas CO₂ into algae biomass-Scaling up' will involve
chemical capture followed by biological conversion of CO₂ to algae biomass. The process is aided by an
integrated Microbial Fuel Cell. The study will address optimization and understanding of operational
parameters such as gas-liquid mass transport, reactor design, mathematical modeling,
and synchronous interaction of unit operations. In addition, a study on algae harvesting
and water recycling rates will be undertaken. Another objective of the proposal will be to undertake sustainability
analysis at a 1000 l scale and present a demonstrable unit for industrial operations.
Prospecting for novel nanosystems
from Thar-desert’s extremophiles for
healthcare and environmental
Dr. Indranil Banerjee
Department of Bioscience and
affiliation: IDRP, Smart
Healthcare,  IIT Jodhpur
1. Dr. Raviraj Vankayala, Department
of Bioscience and Bioengineering,
Secondary affiliation: IDRP, Smart
Healthcare, IIT Jodhpur
2. Dr.  Neha Jain, Department of
Bioscience and Bioengineering,
Secondary affiliation: Emerging
Technologies for Sustainable
Development (CETSD), IIT Jodhpur
3.Dr. Shankar Manoharan,
Department of Bioscience and
Bioengineering, IIT Jodhpur
4.Dr. Ritu Gupta, Department of
Chemistry, IIT Jodhpur
5.Dr. Pranay Ranjan, Department of
Metallurgical and Materials
Engineering, Secondary affiliation:
IDRP, Smart Healthcare, IIT Jodhpur
The project aims to explore the extremophiles of the Thar desert of India to discover a broad class of microbial nanomaterials
with novel compositions and multi-functionalities. Further, it is to exploit the bioengineering machinery of those extremophiles
for fine-tuning the production and properties of those nanomaterials for healthcare and environmental applications. The project
is aligned with the multi-institutional collaborative research among IIT Jodhpur, University of Buffalo, and IIT Delhi.
The project needs a comprehensive knowledge and expertise of microbial nanosystems, nanosystem characterizations,
and molecular biology.
Mathematical modeling and
parametric design for Point-of-care
Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh
Department of Mathematics
Dr. Sudipto Mukhopadhyay,
Department of Mechanical
Engineering & Dr. Tara Chand
Kumawat, Department of Chemical
Point-of-care (POC) or near-patient testing enables acquiring real-time diagnostic results at or near to the patient site providing
timely diagnostics at a lower cost. Microfluidics play an important role in the development of POC or lab-on-chip devices.
Research under this proposal  will involve Effective mathematical modeling, Hydrodynamic analysis and CFD simulations.
The analysis and modeling techniques can further be applicable to explore many other physical and real world problems.
The project is purely interdisciplinary and collaborative in nature.
Flexible Electronic Devices for
Shree Prakash Tiwari
Department of Electrical
i.Dr. Shree Prakash Tiwari,
Department of Electrical Engineering
ii.Dr. Arpit Khandelwal, Department of
iii.Dr. Ankur Gupta, Department of
This project will involve extensive exploration of novel and flexible electronic devices for sustainable electronics in
which the main focus will be on using biodegradable material components. The efforts may include design, simulation,
fabrication, and characterization of emerging devices with new materials. The candidate will be involved in fabrication
of multifunctional devices and integrating them for E-textile and wearable systems. The eventual aim is to demonstrate
functional system prototypes for flexible electronics while contributing to scientific knowledge in the area of sustainable
Investigation of biofilm disruption by
mechanical and electromagnetic
waves: A novel approach to reduce
antimicrobial resistance due to biofilms
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Arani Ali Khan; Electrical Engineering
and Arun Kumar R; Mechanical
The project aims to investigate and establish the use of shock waves and microwaves to disrupt resilient
biofilms. The proposal involves optimization of frequencies for the microwave to disintegrate preformed biofilms,
assembly and standardization of shock tube for biofilm disruption and determination of efficacy of microwaves
and shock waves to break pre-formed biofilms on catheters and in vitro biofilm models.
The Scalar Auxiliary Variable (SAV)
Scheme for Coupled General Gradient
Flow Systems with Non-local Free
Energy and its application
Dr. Moumita Mandal
Department of Mathematics, IITJ
Dr. Durgamadhab Mishra, Assistant
Professor, Department of Physics, IIT
The proposed work aims to design unconditionally energy-stable highly efficient Scalar Auxiliary
Variable (SAV) scheme for coupled gradient flow systems driven by nonlinear non-local free
energy to assess the structure and stability of various physical dissipative systems describing
quasicrystal generation in nanotechnology, formation of heterostructures in semiconductors,
and fracture mechanics in peridynamics etc.